18-11-2021||Lucknow||HC bench demand: Agra lawyers to gherao minister||Agra Lawyers in Agra will ‘gherao’ union minister of state for law and justice SP Singh Baghel on Friday. Baghel is also the member of Parliament from Agra and resides in the city. The lawyers are agitated over delay in establishment of high court bench in Agra and are abstaining from work in courts since Wednesday. “The lawyers would gather on civil court premises and reach the residence and office of union minister of state for law and justice SP Singh Baghel on Friday. We will apprise the minister about our long pending demand and seek to know his stand on the issue,” stated advocate Ajay Singh, the officiating convenor of Action Committee for Establishment of High Court Bench in Agra. “Earlier we had called for strike on Wednesday only but support was extended by bar from nearby areas also and thus lawyers will abstain from working till this week end,” he said. “On Saturday, the lawyers from Agra will go to Mathura for a meeting on issue of high court bench in Agra,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-bench-demand-agra-lawyers-to-gherao-minister-101637259423476.html
18-11-2021||Pune||College students demand online-offline mode for exams in Pune||Pune: With university and colleges looking forward to reopening its campuses after the Diwali vacation, students and student organisations are demanding exams in the winter season to be conducted in both online and offline modes. With exams on online mode since past one and a half years during the Covid pandemic, the state government has now allowed college and university campuses to conduct offline classes and exams for fully vaccinated students. “We are working on conducting the next semester examinations offline and discussed the issue at the recent meeting held by the university. It was unanimously decided to conduct it in offline mode, and its detailed planning will start after the Diwali vacation,” said Mahesh Kakade, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) examination and evaluation department head. Students and student organisations are demanding to have both online and offline options for conducting exams. “I am still at my village in Nashik and would return next year due to financial reasons. As I am supporting my family now, it would be convenient if the exams are held online for the next semester too,” said Kedar Jambhale, a second-year Commerce student. Kamlakar Shete, student and vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal, Pune city said, “We conducted an online survey to take opinion of students about conducting exams, in which 11,000 participated and 93.04 per cent demanded to have online exams for the next semester. So, our demand is that university and colleges should give a choice to students to appear for exams in both online and offline mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-students-demand-online-offline-mode-for-exams-in-pune-101637259363361.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC shortlists contractors that BJP has accused of rigging tenders||In a fresh controversy, the bidders shortlisted for a tender floated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) turned out to be the same who the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – which is in the opposition – has named as the cartel of contractors that has been favoured by the ruling Shiv Sena. The bids were opened on Thursday. The civic administration said it would verify the allegations levelled by BJP. Earlier this month, BMC had floated a tender for appointing seven different contractors to reinstate utility trenches across seven municipal zones. A day before the bidding was opened, BJP councillor Vinod Mishra had written to the municipal commissioner as well as the mayor, stating that the process of awarding the tenders was already fixed. He had also given a list of seven contractors who he said will be getting the contract on Thursday.Additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu on Thursday said that before taking the final step of awarding the contracts to the contractors, the BMC administration will be verifying all the allegations made by Mishra.The councillor had alleged that BMC has taken down a tender – which it had floated three ago – by amending its conditions to make sure that members of the alleged contractor lobby gets the contract. He claimed that the tender for carrying out trenching works was first floated in September. However, as the contractors quoted 25-30% lower prices than the estimated ones, the tender was cancelled.He said BMC had later floated another tender for the same project at an estimated price of ₹550 crore and the bidding was supposed to open on Thursday. Mishra said the earlier contract was valued around ₹380 crore, and for the latest contract, the contractors have quoted 15-20% below the estimated price.“To make sure the contract gets awarded to the favoured candidates, the administration made it mandatory for the contractors to have their own mastic plant in the latest tender. The contract is being awarded to seven different contractors who are part of a cartel. This whole thing was pre-decided and I had shared the details of the contractors to the municipal commissioner and mayor, a day before the bidding was opened,” said Mishra, who wrote to the administration, urging them to cancel the tender and issue a fresh one.When HT contacted a representative of one of the seven firms that has been shortlisted, which Mishra claimed to be part of the cartel, it said that the price quoted between the latest contract and the earlier contract is different as the cost of bitumen increased by 20% in the past month.“BMC will pay us only 80% after the project is completed and the remaining 20% will be paid after the maintenance period gets over,” the representative said.“Laying utility trenches is different from road construction as it requires more labourers. Besides, the price of raw materials has also increased, owing to which the price quoted now is higher than that of last time,” the representative said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-shortlists-contractors-that-bjp-has-accused-of-rigging-tenders-101637259304853.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Defamation suit: Nawab Malik, father of Sameer Wankhede present documents before court||The Bombay high court (HC) took on record three documents submitted by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minority affairs minister Nawab Malik and two documents by Dyandeo Wankhede – the father of Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede – in the defamation suit filed by the latter, seeking injunction against the politician and his associates from posting or making any statement on social media till the suit was decided. In his defamation suit, Dyandeo Wankhede has sought ₹1.25 crore as damages and deletion of all articles, statements and comments made by Malik against the NCB zonal director and other members of the family. However, HC had said that it would only decide on the issue of injunction on future comments and statements made by Malik against Wankhede on any media platform. The single-judge bench of justice Madhav Jamdar, which had reserved its order after hearing arguments of both Wankhede and Malik on November 12, was approached by the politician’s counsel on Wednesday, seeking permission to submit additional documents pertaining to the suit. The bench permitted it and held the hearing of both the sides on Thursday in chambers. Senior advocate Atul Damle, representing Malik, submitted three documents, which included two primary school-leaving certificates and a primary admission certificate of Sameer Wankhede, which showed his name as Sameer Dawood Wankhede and religion Muslim. The admission certificate had the same information. The primary school leaving certificate is of St Paul School and admission form and school leaving certificate of St Joseph School. The documents submitted by Malik were to prove that he had not resorted to any defamatory act against the petitioner by stating that Sameer’s original name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede on Twitter, based on the documents shown by him previously and even on Thursday. Advocate Arshad Shaikh, who represented Dyandeo Wankhede, submitted two documents which included the birth certificate issued by the Mumbai civic body on November 17 and a 1974 caste certificate which showed that he belonged to the Mahar community. On November 12, Shaikh had submitted an affidavit listing 28 documents to substantiate that the petitioner’s name was Dyandeo and not Dawood as claimed by Malik. “It will be an unending process. He [Malik] kept quiet for four days and now he continues to write my son’s name as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. Malik’s contention is that Sameer’s name got corrected when he was in Class 5 to get the caste certificate, implying that he knew he would be joining IRS (Indian Revenue Service),” Dyandeo Wankhede argued. After taking the documents of both the sides on record, the bench said it would pronounce the order on November 22 at 5.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-suit-nawab-malik-father-of-sameer-wankhede-present-documents-before-court-101637258826187.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Union home minister Amit Shah’s Pune visit postponed||Union home minister Amit Shah’s Pune visit has been postponed, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) city unit president Jagdish Mulik on Thursday.Shah was scheduled to visit the city on November 26.Mulik issued a press statement on Thursday late evening and said, “ Shah’s Pune visit has been postponed which was scheduled on November 26. The next date is not confirmed yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/union-home-minister-amit-shah-s-pune-visit-postponed-101637258825103.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Vijay Yatra concludes after all-night journey on Purvanchal Expressway||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav finished his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra in Lucknow at 4am on Thursday after having covered the entire stretch of the newly inaugurated 341 kilometre Purvanchal Expressway.Describing the yatra as one of the longest by the “Samajwadi people”, he said it would come to a stop in the true sense when his party regains power in the state.The yatra was a “symbolic reiteration” that the expressway was the previous SP government’s project, a claim that Yadav has often made.In a tweet at around midnight, Akhilesh Yadav quoted noted American poet Robert Frost’s verse: “But I have promises to keep/ And miles to go before I sleep/And miles to go before I sleep”.The tweet also had pictures of the SP chief on the rath surrounded by supporters.“With great difficulties comes a night...that brings in a new dawn. Now, there will be a new morning, there will be a change in 2022 (assembly polls),” he said in another tweet in Hindi, at the end of the nearly 17-hour Samajwadi Vijay Yatra.The fourth leg of the yatra had begun at the zero point of the Purvanchal Expressway at Haideria village in Ghazipur at around 11am on Wednesday. It ended at Chand Sarai village (the 341 km point) of the Purvanchal Expressway in Lucknow on Thursday.Standing atop his Benz bus converted into a rath, Akhilesh Yadav said: “This leg of the yatra has ended at 4am. I think this is one of the longest yatras of Samajwadi (SP) people, but in the real sense, I think the yatra hasn’t ended...It will go on and will stop when we see the SP government back.”After setting out from Ghazipur at 11am on Wednesday, the yatra reached Mau around 3pm, Azamgarh at 7.30pm, Ambedkarnagar around 10.30pm, the Sultanpur airstrip on the expressway at midnight, Ayodhya at 1.30am, Barabanki around 2.30am and Lucknow around 4am.“Originally, the yatra was to end in Lucknow on Wednesday evening. But with many unscheduled halts due to the crowd of supporters along the way, Akhilesh’s yatra went on all night,” said SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Akhilesh Yadav undertook the Samajwadi VIjay Yatra on the Purvanchal Expressway the morning after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway at the emergency airstrip for Indian Air Force (IAF) in Sultanpur on Tuesday.The same day, the SP cadres did “symbolic floral inauguration” of the expressway, calling it the Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway.Akhilesh Yadav has repeatedly been saying that the expressway was a project of his government, which the BJP government was claiming as its own now.PM Modi had inaugurated the expressway on Tuesday afternoon after landing on the 3.2 km emergency airstrip in a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft of the IAF. An air show by IAF involving combat jets followed the inauguration.At the start of his yatra on the Purvanchal Expressway in Ghazipur, Akhilesh Yadav had said on Wednesday: “This expressway is incomplete yet. Samajwadis saw the dream and conceived the plan to build it to cut the travel time between Ghazipur (in UP) and New Delhi. It was to be an expressway to prosperity. They couldn’t make a better road than this in the entire country. After SP government comes to power, it will build mandis (markets) along the expressway and take the expressway to Ballia and connect it with Bihar.”Responding to the Akhilesh’s yatra, political analyst Professor SK Dwivedi, who is former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University, said: “It’s high time that political parties shelve identify politics of caste, religion, Jinnah etc. They should do development politics. They should not fight over who made what. The expressway is built and it’s a good thing for the state, the country and its people. Credit should be given to both those who conceived it, and those who built it.”This was the fourth leg of Akhilesh’s Samajwadi Vijay Yatra. The first leg of the yatra was taken out on October 12 and 13 in Kanpur, Hamirpur, Jalaun and Kanpur Dehat. The second one was in Hardoi on October 31. The third was from Gorakhpur to Kushinagar on November 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-s-samajwadi-vijay-yatra-concludes-after-all-night-journey-on-purvanchal-expressway-101637258823457.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Moneylender, two others booked for issuing threat in Pune||Pune: The Faraskhana police have booked three persons under the anti-money lenders act for allegedly recovering Rs1 crore in lieu of Rs22 lakh given on loan to the complainant by one of the accused. Later, the moneylender and two of his accomplices threatened him with dire consequences and said that they would force his wife and daughter into flesh trade. The accused have been identified as Rajendra Devendra, Rajesh Devendra and Raju alias John Rajendra Devendra, all residents of Mangalwar peth who have been booked under relevant sections of Maharashtra Money Lending (regulation ) Act 2014. The 39-year-old complainant, a resident of Solapur Bazar in Camp, in his complaint stated that he took Rs22 lakh from the main accused Rajendra Devendra to be returned at double interest rate. Till date, the victim has given him around Rs1 crore and yet he was mentally and physically harassed for more money. Later, the main accused threatened that his family members, wife and daughter, will be forced into illicit activity trade if their demands were not met, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/moneylender-two-others-booked-for-issuing-threat-in-pune-101637258763356.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||In 39% of high-rise fires, firefighting system did not work: Mumbai Fire Brigade||Of the 324 fires reported in the city’s high-rise fires between January 2020 and October 2021, 127 buildings, or 39.2%, did not have an operational firefighting system, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade data. In the remaining 197 buildings, this system was operational and was used during firefighting. In the last month alone, the city witnessed two major high-rise fires, the latest being on November 5 when two senior citizens were killed in a fire on the 14th and 15th floors of Hansa Heritage building in Kandivli in northwest Mumbai. On October 22, a massive fire gutted two flats on the 19th floor of the 60-storey One Avighna Park at Currey Road in south-central Mumbai. One man fell to his death from the building’s 19th floor. The frequency of fires in high-rise buildings has prompted civic authorities to make official statements urging Mumbaiites living in high-rise buildings to ensure fire safety in their buildings. On November 5, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a statement reiterating that it is the responsibility of the owner or occupier of the building to ensure fire safety in its premises and that the fire extinguishing system, equipment and alarm system in all the buildings – especially the tallest ones – are operational, in compliance with the Maharashtra Fires Prevention and Life Safety Act, 2006. BMC had warned that action will be taken against buildings if they fail to comply with the norms. In this statement, the civic body also warned residents against using flammable material for unnecessary interior decorations work and altering fire protection systems and electrical structures. According to fire brigade authorities, a building’s height is the single-most challenging aspect of fighting high-rise fires. The second is wind speed. Without a robust internal firefighting system that is designed to mitigate a fire immediately, loss of life and property is magnified. In Mumbai, any building taller than 32 meters (approximately 10 floors without a podium) is a considered a high-rise, according to BMC’s Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) 2034, and any building taller than 120 metres (approximately 40 floors without a podium) requires an approval by a special state-appointed committee comprising a structural engineer, a geotechnical consultant and the city’s chief fire officer. “International studies show it takes about 7.5 minutes for a fire to become a full blown major fire,” a senior fire officer said. “The Mumbai fire brigade’s response time after we receive a fire call is about 15 minutes. A building’s firefighting system can respond right away, within the first 7.5 minutes. In cases where this is not operational, the fire would have already intensified by the time our firefighting system starts.” The officer added, “During this time, the smoke generated due to building furniture, beds, curtains, etc, will hamper visibility of any trapped residents, and of firemen, and increase the time taken to access the spot of the fire once we are inside the building. Every minute counts.” At present, Mumbai fire brigade’s tallest ladder is of 90 meters. This can access a fire up to a maximum of 30 floors from outside the building. If there is a fire on higher floors in a building where the firefighting system is not operational, the fire brigade has to set up a ‘series pumping network’ using its own apparatus, which is carried to the floor either using a fire lift or the staircase of the building. “This can take up to one hour. A lot of time is lost,” the officer said. According to the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety act, it is the responsibility of the owner or occupier of the building to provide fire safety in the building. Once the fire brigade gives its no-objection certificate (NOC) to a building, it is the building management’s responsibility to do bi-annual audits to ensure the firefighting system is in working condition. It also has to submit audit reports to the fire department. Called Form B, all buildings in the city need to submit this to the fire brigade after getting their premises inspected by licensed agencies, the official said. “This is different from the original NOC a building is given soon after construction.” After the fire at Kamala Mills Compound in Lower Parel in December 2017, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) set up fire compliance cells to inspect if buildings have submitted their fire safety audits. The parameters that decide if a building is not following fire safety rules include a non-functional internal fire-fighting system — fire alarms, sprinklers, hose pipes and riser systems — blocked fire exits, and non-functional fire lifts. Mumbai’s chief fire officer Hemant Parab said, “This is now routine procedure. Apart from these inspections, the Fire Brigade has been conducting awareness camps for residents, elected representatives, security firms, students and volunteers. Disaster Response training workshops are conducted in the Disaster Management Training Institute in Parel.” Vilas Nagalkar, senior architect said, “Fire safety in high-rise buildings includes not just riser systems, but also a fire lift, sprinklers, and smoke detectors. A large number of casualties in fires happen due to inhalation of smoke, so air vents are a must on every floor. It is also pertinent that an operational riser system has high water pressure, as we saw in case of the fire at One Avighna Park, where the water pressure in the firefighting system was weak. Occupants must ensure refuge areas are kept free of encroachment. In many cases, we have seen the building managements lock up refuge areas so that they are not used as store rooms, or the corridors are occupied hampering movement in case of a fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-39-of-high-rise-fires-firefighting-system-did-not-work-mumbai-fire-brigade-101637258646728.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Brigade gets 55-metre water tower to fight fire||To help tackle fire incidents in high-rise buildings, densely populated residential areas and congested pockets of city slums, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has introduced its newest fleet of firefighting vehicles two weeks ago. The fleet has a 55-metre-tall water tower with five expandable arms along with an inbuilt high-capacity water tanker. The Mumbai Fire Brigade purchased the vehicle for ₹12 crore. The order for the same was placed in November 2019 but got delayed due to the pandemic. Unlike the existing hydraulic ladders of the fire brigade, which helps scale the height of the building externally up to 90 metres, the arms of the water tower of the new fleet can flexibly extend horizontally up to 55 metres. They can stretch over other structures in case the fire breaks out in a congested area with narrow roads, and can easily douse fires in slum areas even if the vehicle is forced to park on the main road. In the current scenario, in case a fire breaks out in narrow lanes, the fire fighting vehicles are parked on the main road, and the fire brigade runs their hosepipes through these lanes up to the site of the incident. The high-capacity water tanker attached to this vehicle can shoot water up to a distance of 30 metres. Explaining the functionality of the new fleet, a senior civic official told HT, “In case of a fire incident in a high-rise tower or a densely populated slum area, the latest fleet can reach the spot to douse the fire with its 55-metre expandable water tower, which was not the case earlier as the firefighters struggled to curb such incidents in densely populated areas and high-rise buildings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-gets-55-metre-water-tower-to-fight-fire-101637258645667.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||HC stays arrest of law student charged with posing as lawyer||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of a law student who appeared before a Rae Bareli tribunal on behalf of his senior (under whom he was working as an intern) and sought adjournment in a case. Presiding officer, Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal, Rae Bareli had passed an order on October 4 to lodge an FIR against law student Abhay Kumar Gupta. Gupta was charged with impersonating as a lawyer and seeking adjournment in a case. Following the court’s order, FIR was lodged against him on October 6 at Kotwali police station, Rae Bareli, under Sections 419, 420, 171 of the Indian Penal Code. A division bench of justices Devendra Kumar Upadhyaya and Saroj Yadav on November 11 said: “It does not appear to be a case where the petitioner is said to have impersonated as a lawyer. From the order dated 4.10.2021 passed by the presiding officer, it appears that the petitioner was present in the tribunal in civil dress without adorning robes.” “Prima facie, it appears to us that the petitioner over-zealously attempted to seek adjournment in a case where one of the parties appears to have been represented by the learned advocate under whom the petitioner was interning,” added the court. “Having regard to the overall facts and circumstances of the case, we hereby direct that till the next date of listing, the petitioner Abhay Kumar Gupta shall not be arrested pursuant to the impugned FIR no. 614 of 2021,” directed the court. “However, the petitioner shall cooperate with the investigation,” ordered the court. Advocate Anil Kumar Mishra represented the petitioner in court. During the proceedings, he apprised the court that the order (passed on October 4, 2021) also recorded that on being asked the petitioner told the him that he was a law student and not a practising lawyer. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-stays-arrest-of-law-student-charged-with-posing-as-lawyer-101637258644531.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede framed first wife’s cousin, threatened family: Nawab Malik||State Minister Nawab Malik alleged on Thursday that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede framed his first wife’s cousin in a drug possession case and threatened the family to keep quiet or he would expose them. Wankhede has rubbished the allegations. Malik also said that he has obtained all the records from Wankhede’s birth, school admission and school leaving certificate, with certified copies of handwritten entries and submitted them before the Bombay high court (HC), the director general of police and Mumbai police commissioner. “Wankhede is getting exposed and was afraid that his first wife (Dr Shabana Quraishi) may expose him. To silence her, Wankhede has framed her cousin in a drug possession case with the help of a peddler. Her cousin was arrested by the anti-narcotics cell of the Mumbai police and is still in jail. Wankhede threatened her family that they will all be framed as drug peddlers if they expose him,” Malik said.Recently, Malik has been levelling a series of allegations against Wankhede. He has accused the NCB officer of attempting to “kidnap Aryan Khan” and frame him in the case after failing to extort money from his family. Malik also claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim, but he secured the IRS (Indian Revenue Service) job in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category using his father’s old identity, who converted to Islam before marrying Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano. He also accused Wankhede of framing an IPS officer’s son after a spat between the families. Wankhede has rubbished all allegations.On Wednesday, NCP shared two school leaving certificates from St. Joseph School, Wadala and St. Paul High School, Dadar and both the certificates mentioned Sameer Wankhede as a Muslim.Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar said that those were errors that were rectified by the family back in 1989. “Half info shared by people with evil thoughts to defame Sameer Wankhede. There was an error made. Later this was duly rectified by mr. DNYANDEV with all legal formalities and procedures in 1989,” she tweeted along with documents such as the school leaving certificate of St. Paul High School in which his name was mentioned as Wankhede Sameer Dnyandev and his caste was mentioned as Mahar (Scheduled Caste).She also tweeted his birth certificate showing his father’s name was Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede and his mother’s name mentioned as Zaheda Bano. Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Wankhede has filed a defamation case against Malik and sought damages of ₹1.25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-framed-first-wife-s-cousin-threatened-family-nawab-malik-101637258585115.html
18-11-2021||Pune||At Rs63.90/kg, CNG prices see third hike in 1.5 months in Pune||Pune: A third hike in one-and-a-half-month, the CNG price was increased by Rs1.8 on Wednesday. The total rise in price over this period has been Rs6.4 per kg. Consumers would now have to pay Rs63.90 per kg. CNG prices have been steadily ticking up following the trend of petrol and diesel. On October 4, CNG prices were hiked by Rs2 and on October 14 the hike was ₹2.6. The Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) has announced that the revision in CNG price is being implemented. The gradual increase in CNG prices is attributed to 62% hike in the price of natural gas that is used in households for cooking and turned into CNG for use as fuel in automobiles. “The price hike is due to an increase in input cost and transportation cost of gas. But as compared to petrol and diesel, the CNG prices are reasonable for consumers,” said a senior official from MNGL on condition of anonymity. Though the CNG prices have steadily increased, the prices of petrol and diesel have remained unchanged since the first week of November. “The prices of petrol and diesel have not changed since November 5. However, CNG price have increased by Rs1.8,” said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA). Prices of petrol and diesel in the city on Thursday are Rs109.50 and Rs92.50 per litre respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-rs63-90-kg-cng-prices-see-third-hike-in-1-5-months-in-pune-101637258583244.html
18-11-2021||Pune||PMC files police case for ₹1 crore worth forged bills for electrical works at crematoriums||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday lodged a police complaint regarding forged bills worth ₹99 lakh submitted without carrying out any works at the four crematoriums in the city.The audit department recently took objection to bills worth ₹1 crore submitted by the electricity department. The audit department pointed out that the bills were submitted sans any documents. An inquiry was initiated during which various officers whose signatures were present on the papers claimed that these signatures had been forged and that even the stamps were fake. Immediately, the electricity department issued notices in the matter. Elected members across parties raised questions in the general body meeting and alleged the presence of a nexus between the administration and contractors. Criticism from the elected members forced the administration to lodge the police complaint.Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “This is a serious matter and the administration has conducted a primary inquiry. It has been found that the signatures and stamps used on the papers submitted are forged. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has asked to file a complaint and we have filed it at Shivajinagar police station.”“We sent two officers on Thursday to lodge the complaint. I spoke with the police officials and requested that a criminal case be registered. Along with the police inquiry, the administration has also initiated a departmental inquiry and the guilty will be punished,” Khemnar said.Meanwhile, opposition parties including the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) demanded that a forensic test of the signatures be conducted.Leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar said, “All political parties are very angry at this incident and it is a serious crime. The administration must file a police case. I am sure there is a mastermind from the civic administration who guided this scam. Only a person who knows the municipal administration thoroughly can commit such a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-files-police-case-for-1-crore-worth-forged-bills-for-electrical-works-at-crematoriums-101637258525021.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to launch ₹6300 crore projects in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate and launch several projects worth ₹6300 crore in the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh on Friday. The day would also mark the birth anniversary of Rani Laxmi Bai of Jhansi.The PM, along with defence minister Rajnath Singh, will launch several key initiatives centred on the supply of piped water and employment in defence units in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor at Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv, which is being held in Jhansi from November 17-19 as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. The defence minister had inaugurated the event on Wednesday.The PM’s visit is expected to boost the BJP campaign for the 2022 assembly polls in one of the most backward regions of Uttar Pradesh.In Jhansi, PM would lay the foundation of ₹ 400 crore plant for the propulsion system of anti-tank guided missiles. Bharat Dynamics Limited is setting up the unit as part of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor Project.In addition, he would hand over indigenously designed and developed equipment to the armed forces.The light combat helicopter developed by HAL would be handed over to IAF chief. He would also hand over the drones developed by Indian start-ups to army and electronic warfare suits to the navy.The Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor has nodes at Agra, Aligarh, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Lucknow and Kanpur.The prime minster would also launch the National Cadet Corps Alumni Association of which he would be the first member. He would launch 100 new co- educational Sainik Schools as well. These will be developed with help of the private sector over the next two years. Completed at a cost of ₹2600 crore in Mahoba, the Arjun Sahayak project is the biggest project that the PM would dedicate to the people on Friday. This project on the Dhasan river would provide irrigation facilities to 1.5 lakh farmers in 168 villages of Banda, Hamirpur and Mahoba.About four lakh people would get water and irrigation would be provided to an area of 15000 hectares. The irrigation capacity under this project would later be expanded to 44,382 hectares, according to a government statement.This is considered one of the state government’s flagship projects which chief minister Yogi Adityanath has personally monitored.The BJP had swept the 2017 assembly elections in Bundelkhand and won all the 19 seats in the region. The party bagged 47 of the 52 seats in the Kanpur-Bundelkhand region then.Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is the party’s election in-charge in UP, has held meetings recently to finalise the strategy for the region of ahead of the polls.Apart from being the centre of politics of BSP founder Kanshi Ram, Bundelkhand has been a BJP stronghold too.After the demolition of the Babri Mosque on December 6, 1992, regional political players like the Samajwadi Party and the BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) upstaged the BJP to capture the Bundelkhand political landscape. But the party bounced back strongly in 2014. Since then, it has swept two Lok Sabha polls (2014 and 2019) and one assembly election (2017).Bundelkhand has a significant population of non- Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits, who voted for the BJP in these elections. Dalits account for about 30% of the population in Bundelkhand and Muslims 7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-launch-6300-crore-projects-in-bundelkhand-region-of-uttar-pradesh-101637258523293.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Passengers can soon board outstation trains from Jogeshwari station||In what can be seen as a relief for people travelling outside of Mumbai, passengers will be able to board outstation trains from Jogeshwari railway station early next year. The Western Railway has built two additional platforms costing Rs70 crore. The two railway platforms and one island platform along with three interchanging railway lines will be used at Jogeshwari station for the operation of these trains. The zonal railway has sent the proposal on operations of the trains to the Ministry of Railways. Once approved, outstation trains will start operating from Jogeshwari station. The divisional railway manager, Western Railway GVL Satya Kumar told HT, “Two railway platforms have been constructed at Jogeshwari station and we have sent the proposal of train operation to the railway board.” The railways had earlier planned to operate nearly 100 outstation trains towards Gujarat and North India from Jogeshwari but have stated that the demand for outstation trains post the pandemic has been low. “We will be reassessing the number of trains for operation from Jogeshwari as we have witnessed a decrease in the demand for the daily operation of outstation trains,” said a senior Western Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/passengers-can-soon-board-outstation-trains-from-jogeshwari-station-101637258403579.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Contractor booked for assault, issuing death threat to corporator’s associate in Pune||Pune: Even as a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) corporator has been booked for threatening a contractor, another incident of a contractor beating up the associate of a corporator has come to light. On Wednesday, a contractor and his associates were booked for physically assaulting the associate of a corporator in Ramtekdi regional ward office around 1 pm. Dnyaneshwar Garad (41), a resident of Ramnagar in Hadapsar, has lodged a first information Report (FIR) stating that contractor Vijay Alkunte and his associates Shubham Kamble, Vishal Orse, Laxman Dongre and three others brutally assaulted him on the premises of the Wanowrie ward office. According to the police, Ramtekdi Prabhag 24 corporator Ashok Kamble, Garad and his supporters had come to the ward office and met deputy engineer Kunjan Jadhav responsible for overseeing the implementation of development works in the ward area. At that time, Kamble said that despite tenders for drainage and concretisation work being sanctioned, the work was yet incomplete. Replying to him, Jadhav immediately told Garad to call up Alkunte. An enraged Alkunte retorted, “Who are you to call me. Are you an officer of the PMC to inquire about the work. I will start the work when I will,” and came to the spot along with the others and physically assaulted the victim. He even threatened to kill him if he repeated his mistake next time, police stated. Sub-inspector SH Kenjale said that investigation was on in the case and action against the accused will be taken. The Wanowrie police have invoked Sections 141 (means of criminal force, or show of criminal force, to compel any person to do what he is not legally bound to do, or to omit to do what he is legally entitled to do), 143 (member of unlawful assembly), 146 (rioting) ,323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. Earlier, the Dattawadi police had lodged a second FIR against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Dhanraj Ghogare from Ward Number 25 for allegedly threatening the public works contractors who had lodged a complaint of cheating against him at Wanowrie police station recently. According to the FIR, Ghogare allegedly kidnapped the contractor, asked him to sign an affidavit and brought him to the court. The contractor on the pretext of answering nature’s call fled from the spot and rushed to Dattawadi police station where an FIR was lodged against the corporator and four others. Besides Ghogare, the other accused have been identified as Sahadeo Laxman Daware, Vinod Mane Patil and advocate Atul Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/contractor-booked-for-assault-issuing-death-threat-to-corporator-s-associate-in-pune-101637258343238.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Sanjay Raut backs Sharad Pawar over BJP’s ‘harassment’ of MVA partners||The Shiv Sena has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government will pay for “every second of harassment” that its Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners faced. Sena leader Sanjay Raut backed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s statement and said that the MVA leaders are targeted due to “political vendetta”.While speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut said, “What Pawar saheb said is correct. Our people have been targeted and put in jail based on false evidence or tortured by the central investigation agencies, but we are not scared. They will have to pay for it.”“The use of Central agencies against states like Maharashtra is not as per Constitutional beliefs. You will have to pay for every second of harassment we faced. Fate never forgives anyone,” Raut added.Over the whereabouts of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, the Sena MP said it was a “travesty” that he levelled allegations and is now absconding. Raut attacked the union government, alleging that if he escaped from India, it was with the support of the government. “You got him to make allegations against us and helped him flee,” he said.Reacting to the statements, state BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “The way the MVA government has functioned in the last two years, they will have to pay the price. Besides, the agencies are working under the law. The constant attack on the union government is only to misguide people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sanjay-raut-backs-sharad-pawar-over-bjp-s-harassment-of-mvapartners-101637258223159.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Pune court convicts former PCB member, two others in physical assault case||Pune: Additional chief judicial magistrate SH Salunkhe has convicted former Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) member Manzoor Shaikh and two others, Sadik Ismail Shaikh and Fayyaz alias Intu Nissar Shaikh, for the offence punishable under Sections 323, 324 and 452 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) vide Section 248 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and directed that they be released under Section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act on their entering into a bond in the sum of Rs7,500 each with one surety in the like amount to appear and receive sentence whenever called upon by the court within a period of one year and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour. The trio was arrested following a first information report (FIR) lodged against them by victim Kadir Kadar Meman and his wife Shehnaz in 2009. According to the complainant, when accused Shaikh was PCB corporator with his office in front of the scrap business shop ‘Meman Scrap Center’ of Kadir, he suspected Kadir of publishing defamatory pamphlets. On February 9, 2009, at about 8.30 pm, Shaikh barged into Kadir’s shop when he was with his friends Faruq and Razzak, and abused him and hit his head with hammer. The accused’s accomplice Sadik assaulted on Kadir’s head with iron rod. The accused also assaulted Kadir with fist, blows and kicks. Shakil and Salim, brothers of Kadir, went to rescue him, but the accused abused and assaulted them. The accused trespassed into the house and assaulted and abused the Kadir’s wife and her father-in-law. She sustained injury on head and stomach. Kadir sustained a bleeding injury on head and fell unconscious and was taken to Sassoon hospital. In the incident, a golden chain, bracelet and Rado watch and mobile of Kadir was missing. Injured Kadir and others were initially treated at Sassoon hospital and then, Kadir was shifted to Inlaks and Budhrani hospital. His wife reported the incident at Lashkar police station. On the basis of the complaint, an offence was registered. The accused were arrested and on the basis of confessional statements made by accused Sadik, weapons used in the commission of offence, was discovered in presence of panchas vide punchnama. Later, Lashkar police filed charge­sheet against the accused. Judicial magistrate, first class, Lashkar court, Pune, framed charge against the accused for their offence. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Then, as per the order of district and sessions judge, Pune, dated July 6, 2019, matter was transferred to the present court. Counsel for the accused submitted that there is no previous conviction against the accused. The accused have been facing trial for the last eleven years. They are sole earning members of their family consisting of wife and children. If the accused are sent to jail, their family will be put to starvation. Therefore, considering the family background and the facts and circumstances of the case, leniency may be shown to them and they may be extended benefit of Probation of Offenders Act and may be released on bond of good behaviour. The court directed that during the above period of one year, the accused shall be under the supervision of district probation officer, Pune or any other officer appointed in his place, on the conditions that, they will present themselves within 14 days from the date of the order before the district probation officer, Pune and will produce the copies that, they will live honestly and peaceably and will endeavour to earn honest livelihood; that, they will not associate with bad characters or lead dissolute life; that, they will not commit any offence punishable by any law in force in India, that, they will abstain from taking intoxicants; that, they will carry out such directions as may from time to time be given by the probation officer for due observance of the conditions mentioned. The accused have been directed to execute a bond of Rs10,000­ each with one surety in the like amount undertaking to abide by the conditions mentioned and are further directed to appear before the district probation officer, Pune on or before November 30. The accused have been directed to deposit the amount of Rs7,500 ­each within two weeks to the complainant Meman as compensation. The accused were facing trial for the offences punishable under Sections 326, 323, 504, 427 and 452 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The court order stated that it is contended that informant Shehnaz is residing at 1870, Gafar Beg street, Camp, Pune, along with her husband Kadir. Kadir runs ‘Meman Scrap Center’ scrap business shop. Counsel for the accused submitted that there is no previous conviction at the credit of the accused. The accused have been facing trial for the last eleven years. They are sole earning members of their family consisting of wife and children. If the accused are sent to jail, their family will be put to starvation. Therefore, considering the family background and the facts and circumstances of the case, leniency may be shown to them and they may be extended benefit of Probation of Offenders Act and may be released on bond of good behaviour. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-court-convicts-former-pcb-member-two-others-in-physical-assault-case-101637257983350.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP names top leaders Nadda, Shah, Rajnath as incharges of Uttar Pradesh regions||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) think tank on Thursday named party chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh as incharges of the six organisational units that the party has divided Uttar Pradesh into for better management. This was decided at a meeting in Delhi where the party leadership also reportedly mulled over taking out four rath yatras across the poll-bound state. These rath yatras by top BJP leaders could culminate with a massive rally in Lucknow to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a plan similar to the model BJP followed ahead of the 2017 UP assembly polls. The yatras could be named Vijay Sankalp Yatras, party leaders said. Rajnath has been named in-charge of Avadh and Kashi region that includes the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah has been named in-charge for Braj-Paschim region. Nadda would oversee Gorakhpur-Kanpur region.“The party’s top leaders would interact with booth presidents and booth level workers,” party leaders said.Nadda is expected in UP for a couple of days from November 22 to fine tune the party’s strategy.Nadda will also address booth president’s conference in Gorakhpur on November 22 and in Kanpur on November 23 while Rajnath would address booth president’s conferences in Jaunpur and in Sitapur on November 25. Shah would address similar conferences in Braj and Paschim (western UP) though the dates of his interaction have not been announced so far. BJP has also named an election panel for the state headed by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan. “There is also a plan to get our top leaders to contest UP polls. The possibility of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and other leaders, who are currently MLCs, contesting is high,” BJP leaders said. The BJP has already completed verification of committees up to the booth level. The party has also announced a manifesto committee under veteran minister Suresh Khanna. “The manifesto committee would collect feedback from across the state before finalising the manifesto,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said after the meeting in Delhi that he attended with state general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-names-top-leaders-nadda-shah-rajnath-as-incharges-of-uttar-pradesh-regions-101637257743423.html
18-11-2021||Indore||Armed dacoits take women, two daughters hostage; rob bungalow in broad daylight||In the Bhanwar Kua area of Indore, armed dacoits entered a bungalow to carry out a robbery in broad daylight and took three women present in the house as hostages on Thursday.The whole incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the house, with the help of which the police is looking for the miscreants, according to the Madhya Pradesh police.A neighbour, Pawan Sharma, informed that after the death of the owner of the bungalow Jaiprakash Vaishnav, his wife Bhavna lived with her two daughters and two maids."Today at 12.30 pm six masked men entered the bungalow and took Bhavna and her two daughters hostage at gunpoint and started demanding money," he said.A total of four masked men had barged in upon receiving information that the bungalow had crores of money but miscreants were able to take nearly ₹1.5 lakhs, informed Maheshchandra Jain, Superintendent of Police (SP), Indore.Bhanwar Kua police and top officials reached the spot and retrieved CCTV camera footage. They sent three teams in search of the accused persons."It is feared that some acquaintance of Bhavna might have given information about crores of money to the dacoits," the SP said.Apart from Bhavna and her daughters, there were two maids present in the bungalow during the time of the incident, who are being questioned by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/armed-dacoits-take-women-two-daughters-hostage-rob-bungalow-in-broad-daylight-101637256724929.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Those who put Anil Deshmukh in jail will pay the price: NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party Chief Sharad Pawar slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) Central government on Wednesday and said that those who put the former home minister Anil Deshmukh in jail will have to pay the price. “You are spreading propaganda against a person. He (Deshmukh) came to meet me and said that the complaint has been made by the police commissioner. Until the probe is complete, he doesn’t want to stay in this position and he is stepping down as home minister. You have sent him behind bars and will be made to pay the price of every day and every hour,” the former union minister said at a public rally in Nagpur, without directly naming the BJP.He also questioned the whereabouts of former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh, who made the allegations of extortion against Deshmukh. “No one knows the whereabouts of the police officer who made the accusations against Deshmukh. The court has declared him a proclaimed offender. On the other hand, Anil Deshmukh is lodged in jail,” Pawar told reporters on Thursday. “What was Anil Babu’s crime? One day, Param Bir Singh came to meet me and said he had complained about Deshmukh to the chief minister. When I asked him for details, he said that Deshmukh had given him these (extortion) instructions. I said, ‘How is it possible and even if we assume that he has, have you implemented them?’ He replied in negative. I am unable to understand what Deshmukh’s crime was if his so-called instructions were not implemented,” Pawar said at the rally. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh ordered to collect ₹100 crore from businesses and other establishments. The allegations were made soon after he was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner following the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Deshmukh resigned from his post soon after this. Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over money laundering charges and is currently in judicial custody.On Wednesday, the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court declared Singh a proclaimed offender in connection with the extortion case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/those-who-put-anil-deshmukh-in-jail-will-pay-the-price-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-101637257022914.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Smriti Irani launches Sansad Khel Mahakumbh in Amethi||LUCKNOW Union minister Smriti Irani launched the Sansad Khel Mahakumbh – a sporting connect with youths recently kick-started in the state by union home minister Amit Shah from Basti – in her Amethi Lok Sabha constituency on Thursday.The Khel Mahakumbh would continue till November 30 and the BJP leadership has tasked its MPs to organise sporting activities in their constituencies. The UP government has announced intent to invest ₹180 crore in building infrastructure and support for Indian wrestlers till the 2032 Olympics. During her previous visit to her constituency in September, Smriti had helped organise the national wrestling championship in Amethi for the first time. On Thursday, she launched the Sansad Khel Mahakumbh, as part of which various sporting activities, including wrestling would be organised in all the 98 nyay panchayats of Amethi till November 24. “Sporting activities would later be held at the block level and subsequently culminate at the district level,” an official said, adding that locally popular sports like ‘kho-kho’ would be part of the sporting events. Smriti also launched ‘har ghar dastak’ – a Covid-19 inoculation campaign aimed at increasing vaccination coverage in Amethi, where the UP government sanctioned a Covid testing laboratory in April. In the run-up to 2022 UP polls, the BJP has been repeatedly pointing towards how the BJP government had ensured maximum vaccination and conducted maximum Covid tests among all the states. Smriti also inaugurated an OPD and emergency block of community health centre (CHC). “OPD and emergency blocks would help people get better medical facilities,” said Smriti. Asked about Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s decision to allot 40% seats to women and go into the 2022 UP polls with the slogan ‘ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon (I am a girl, can put up a fight), Smriti responded with a sharp retort. “Probably, it means that she is saying that there is a ladka (man) at home who cannot fight... the Congress previously divided people on caste and religion and is now trying to divide people on the basis of their sex,” she said in Amethi. Since winning the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the Congress citadel, in the Modi wave, Smriti has kept the connect with Amethi alive, getting top leaders to sanction big ticket projects. She has herself bought a piece of land, a few kilometers from Gauriganj in Amethi, where her son performed bhoomi pujan in July for a local residence that Smriti promised in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Once ready, Smriti would become only the third MP from Amethi to have a house in Amethi. However, Congress leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui pointed out that while Smriti was yet to come up with a local residence, the Congress leadership had long back built a house in Bhuemau village in Rae Bareli, the adjacent Lok Sabha constituency represented by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Amethi and Rae Bareli together have 10 assembly segments and having breached Amethi in 2019 LS polls, party leaders admitted that BJP had set sights on the assembly seats. Reacting to Smriti’s visit, Congress spokesperson Zishan Haider said, “Unlike the Congress leadership which has, irrespective of victory or defeat, treated Amethi, Rae Bareli as their home, the BJP has been engaging in plain politics. About Smritiji, all I can say is that she is a good actor, but now is becoming a bit too predictable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smriti-irani-launches-sansad-khel-mahakumbh-in-amethi-101637256723351.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||IIIT-A to start 8-yr flexible academic programme from 2022-23||Indian Institute of Information Technology- Allahabad (IIIT-A) in Prayagraj is gearing up to start a unique eight-year post-schooling to PhD flexible academic programme (FAP) on its campus from 2022-23 session in accordance with the provisions of the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020.It will allow a student to enrol in the course on the basis of single entrance exam and earn graduation, post-graduation and PhD degree from the institute, said IIIT-A officials. The course was being designed to allow multiple exits with provisions of re-entry (from the point of exit in future), along with multi-disciplinary, multi-mode, multi-lingual and lateral entry features providing students an opportunity to undertake specialisations in electronics and communications engineering (ECE), business administration, mathematics, physics and information technology, they added.Students will also have the option to study every semester from different institutes as per their convenience. For this, the institute led by IIIT-A director prof P Nagabhushan was preparing to sign memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with various technical and educational institutions, they said.“Admission to this course is proposed to be started from 2022-23 session. We propose to undertake admissions to this course through JEE Mains/ Advanced. Once the entire mechanism is finalised, the course proposal would be sent to the union education ministry for final approval,” said prof Neetesh Purohit, senior faculty member of the IIIT-A’s ECE department who has been entrusted with the responsibility of starting this new course by the Institute Senate. Conditional on fulfilment of credit requirements, a student of the course will be eligible for a semi-skilled certification after first year, skilled certification after second year, a diploma after three years, a bachelor’s degree after four years, a PG diploma after five years, a master’s degree after six years a masters with research certificate after seven years and a PhD after eight years. The FAP concept was presented in the webinars organised for directors and teachers of IIITs on September 5, and of NITs on September 17 and of IITs on September 20 last year. The FAP was modified as per the responses received. The FAP concept was further solidified by IIIT-A through a panel discussion of renowned experts on February 9, 2021, and getting it reviewed by a committee of experts.IIIT-A, Prayagraj, drafted the FAP ordinance specifying the credit requirements for students to drop out mid-way with certificate, diploma, USG/PG degree etc and its senate appreciated the concept. The senate authorised prof Neetesh Purohit to take it forward on June 7, 2021. Request letters for joining the FAP consortium was issued on June 27, 2021 to all institutes of national importance, said prof Purohit who also visited Delhi on July 21-22, 2021.“Here larger discussions were held with various office bearers of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and Association of Indian Universities (AIU). Accordingly, a concept of creating three FAP bubbles: All Institutes of national importance (IITs, IIITs and NITs); all AICTE governed institutes (State Technical universities, deemed technical universities etc) and all non-technical universities, emerged. These FAPs will have three independent consortiums but a few interconnecting pathways would soon be defined,” prof Purohit said.On August 8, 2021, an online brainstorming was also conducted between senior representatives of IIIT-A, IIT-Bhubaneswar, IIIT-Pune, IIIT-Bhagalpur, IIT-Kharagpur, MNNIT, NIT-Patna. On August 23, 2021, the senate of NIT-Patna formally approved joining FAP in a meeting.“Now a national seminar is also being organised at IIIT-A December 3-4 regarding this course in which senior officials of AICTE, AIU, NITI Aayog and union ministry of education will be involved along with educationists from renowned IITs, NITs, IIITs, technical universities and central universities of the country,” prof Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iiita-to-start-8-yr-flexible-academic-programme-from-202223-101637256543467.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||LU convocation: Swati to get Chancellor’s Medal, Dev Dhar Dr Chakravarti Medal||The Lucknow University (LU) administration on Thursday announced the names of Swati Singh and Dev Dhar Dubey for the chancellor’s gold medal and Dr Chakravarti Gold Medal for social service respectively. The duo will be felicitated during the convocation of the university scheduled later this month.Meetendra Srivastava has been selected for the prestigious Vice Chancellor’s Gold Medal for being the best NCC cadet. The university administration is likely to announce the names of other students who will receive medals during the event in coming days.A Lucknowite, Swati Singh completed her final semester in law from the university with an aggregate of 68% this year. An alumna of CMS Gomti Nagar branch, she is trying to pursue further studies from abroad on a scholarship. “My elder brother was offered a 100% scholarship from a university abroad. I am looking for a similar offer to do my postgraduation in law,” she said.A resident of Gorakhpur, Dev Dhar Dubey, a ninth semester LL.B. honours student at the university, is the son of criminal lawyer. The 21-year-old is preparing for civil services exam. Meetendra Srivastava, who is also preparing for the same exam, said, “I want to serve the nation by joining the civil services. I consider my father my role model.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-convocation-swati-to-get-chancellor-s-medal-dev-dhar-dr-chakravarti-medal-101637256003224.html
18-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP leader sends legal notice to Aparna Sen for calling BSF personnel ‘rapists’||West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anirban Ganguly has sent a legal notice to Bengali actor-filmmaker Aparna Sen for allegedly calling the personnel of the central security agency “rapists” and “murderers”, news agency ANI reported.According to regional media reports, the national award-winning director and Padma Shri awardee made the statements at an event held at the Press Club in Kolkata on Monday. Sen further stated that the military is being given more power than it should get, and also urged the West Bengal government to think about the people living at the border regions so that they can do trade and farming as per their choices.
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Hearing on bail pleas of three accused deferred||The Lakhimpur Kheri district and sessions court on Thursday deferred the hearing on the bail applications of three accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case to November 30.The three—Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara and Ullas Trivedi alias Mohit—are among the 13 accused in the first FIR (number 219), related to the death of four farmers and a journalist, lodged at Tikunia Kotwali on October 3. The October 3 violence had claimed eight lives under Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. Confirming it, district government counsel (DGC), criminal, Arvind Tripathi said when the case was put up before the court of district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra for hearing, the prosecution urged the court to grant them some more time to complete the case diary as some forensic reports related to the case were still awaited from the forensic science laboratory.Tripathi further said considering the request of the prosecution, district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra deferred the hearing till Nov 30. Earlier on November 2, the court of chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram had rejected the bail applications of these accused. The three accused were arrested by the special investigating officers on October 23 on the suspicion of their involvement in the violence.Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the case. The UP government had formed a nine-member special investigation committee to probe the Tikunia violence, in which two FIRs (219 & 220) were lodged.The investigators have so far arrested 17 people— 13 in FIR number 219 and four in the FIR number 220. Moreover, the government has also formed a single member judicial commission of inquiry, headed by Allahabad high court justice (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava who is camping in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-hearing-on-bail-pleas-of-three-accused-deferred-101637255463356.html
18-11-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru rain: Holiday declared in schools on Friday||All schools in Bengaluru will remain closed on Friday as Bengaluru urban deputy commissioner declared a one-day holiday owing to the rain. The department of public instruction of Karnataka has written to all district commissioners to decide on whether to close schools for class 1 to class 10, if necessary, in view of the incessant rainfall."The continuous rains at some of the districts is causing inconvenience to students in reaching the schools. Due to this, a holiday for schools can be declared. Further, the DCs can declare holiday subject to the condition that schools can hold classes some other day to make up for the losses of academic activities," the circular said.The metrological department has issued an orange alert for Bengaluru predicting heavy rainfall in the next 48 hours. A yellow alert has been issued for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Chamarajanagara and Mysuru districts.The orange alert has been issued for Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Kolar, Mandya, Ramanagara, Shimoga and Tumkuru districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-rain-holiday-declared-in-schools-on-friday-101637255057963.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Arrest warrant against dancer Sapna Chaudhary||The court of additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) here has issued an arrest warrant against dancer Sapna Chaudhary for not appearing before it in connection with a case related with refund of money to ticket buyers of a dance programme in Lucknow in which she did not turn up. Shantanu Tyagi, ACJM, on November 17 issued the arrest warrant against Sapna Chaudhary and fixed November 22 as next date of hearing. Chaudhary had to perform at an event organised at Tulsi Upvan in Lucknow on October 13, 2018. For this event, tickets were sold for ₹300 each. However, she did not turn up for the event which was scheduled from 3pm to 10pm. An application was filed against Chaudhary on May 1, 2019, in the ACJM court levelling charges of forgery and breach of trust. Earlier, on January 20, 2019, an application was filed in the same court against the organisers, including Junaid Ahmad, Ebad Ali, Amit Pandey and Ratnakar Upadhyay, of the event.The court has taken cognizance of all applications. The court had also rejected a discharge application of Sapna Chaudhary on September 4, 2021. Now, charges are to be framed against her and others. A discharge application is a remedy available to the person who has been framed maliciously in a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/arrest-warrant-against-dancer-sapna-chaudhary-101637254742967.html
18-11-2021||Patna||Life saved as employees, lawyers stepped in, Bihar judge to HC on police assault||MADHUBANI: Two police officers in Bihar’s Madhubani district on Thursday barged into the chambers of a judge, pulled out their service weapons and assaulted him before lawyers in the sub-divisional court complex heard the commotion and rescued him.Additional district judge Avinash Kumar-I, the target of the attack by the two police officers, later reported the attack to the Patna high court. At a special hearing later in the evening, the Patna high court said, “Prima facie, it appears that this episode puts the independence of judiciary in jeopardy”, and ordered the Bihar director general of police (DGP) SK Singhal to file a status report in a sealed cover and be present in the court on the next date of hearing, November 29, in view of the magnitude and enormity of the issues involved”.According to the high court order which took suo moto cognisance of judge Avinash Kumar’s complaint, Ghoghardiha station house officer Gopal Krishna, and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma, forcibly entered additional district and sessions judge Avinash Kumar’s chambers and started abusing him.“On his protest, both police officers started misbehaving and manhandling the judge, and not only this, they also physically assaulted him. They also took out their service revolvers and wanted to attack the officer. However, certain court employees and advocates reached there due to which life of the officer was saved,” the high court order said.The two policemen were later thrashed by the lawyers.Jhanjharpur bar association vice president Balram Sah said lawyers rushed into the judge’s chambers on hearing loud noises inside shortly after the two police officers barged in. Jhanjharpur’s Advocates’ Association promptly convened a meeting to pass a resolution condemning the incident. “It is an attack on judiciary by the administration”, the resolution said.The lawyers have demanded strict action against the two police officers and the district superintendent of police Dr Satya Prakash.Some lawyers said a recent order by the judge against senior police officers appeared to have angered the police. There was, however, no confirmation.Judge Avinash Kumar is known to be unsparing in his criticism once wrong is established. In July this year, he recommended sending the district superintendent of police Dr Satya Prakash to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, for a crash course on handling matters relating to offences against minor girls.The judge’s sharp comment came in a case where the SP signed off on a charge sheet in a minor girl’s rape where the police only charged the accused with kidnapping, not rape. Also, the police treated the girl as an adult despite a medical board opinion that she was 15 years old when she was kidnapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2-bihar-cops-barge-into-judge-s-chambers-assault-him-threaten-to-shoot-lawyer-101637254623107.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Indira Marathon in Prayagraj on Friday, top runners from country to compete||Top long distance runners from all over the country, including past champions, are all set to participate in the 36th All India Prize Money Indira Marathon to be held in Prayagraj on November 19, preparations for which have been completed, said the organisers.Among the prominent runners, include Jyoti Shankar Gawte of Parbhani, Maharashtra who had secured first position in six consecutive races of 2013-14, 2014-15, 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19.Jyoti went to Madan Mohan Malviya stadium on Wednesday and her swab sample was taken in the evening. The 2019 winner Shyamali Singh of West Bengal has also come to Prayagraj to participate in the race. Likewise, Indian Army’s Anil Kumar Singh and Shamsher Singh from Dehradun too have submitted their entries to participate in the run. Anil had come second in the 2017 Indira Marathon and Shamsher Singh was fifth in 2019. Neetu Singh of Phulpur, who bagged second place in the women’s category two years ago, will also be participating in the race this year. More than 500 entries, including 400 for men’s category and 100 for women’s, had been received till late Thursday evening, said regional sports officer Anil Tiwari. The health department has made special arrangements for conducting RT-PCR tests of the runners participating in the Indira Marathon. On the instructions of district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri, a team of health department have set up a team for Corona testing at Madan Mohan Malviya Stadium. The antigen test report of all the runners has come negative and now their swab samples have been sent for RT-PCR test. Corona test report has been made mandatory for the runners and they will not be allowed to participate in the race if the report is positive or they have not taken both the doses of corona vaccine. Indira Marathon was started in 1985 in memory of former PM Indira Gandhi. The prize money in its early years was ₹50,000 for the winner while the first and second runner-up were given a cash award of ₹25,000 and 15000 respectively. Later, the prize money was raised to ₹1 lakh for winners and later the same was enhanced to ₹2 lakh for the winner of both men and female category while the first and second runner-up would be given ₹1 lakh and ₹75,000 respectively. In addition to this, 11 consolation prizes are also given of ₹10,000 in each group. The race, covering a total distance of 42.195 Km, has been organised every year since 1985, barring 2020 owing to Covid-19. The race would start from Anand Bhawan, the ancestral home of the Nehru-Gandhi family and would pass through Teliarganj, Mayo Hall crossing, High Court, CMP Degree College, SHUATS, Yamuna bridge, Hanuman temple and end at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium. The run also has a rich legacy of top long-distance runners of the country participating every year, including from the services. Some like Joyti Shankar Rao Gaute has won the run for six years continuously in the women category. Her winning streak was stopped by West Bengal’s Shyamali in 2019. In 2019, Amethi’s Rahul Kumar (Naib Subedar) became the champion in the men’s category while Harendra Chauhan was just one minute 13 seconds behind Rahul and came second. Hetram of Himachal Pradesh had finished third. Likewise, Shyamali was the winner in the women’s category and Neeta Patel of Prayagraj and Anita Rani of Haryana secured the second and third positions respectively. In 2018, the men’s category saw BS Dhoni from Pune of Indian Army becoming the champion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indira-marathon-in-prayagraj-on-friday-top-runners-from-country-to-compete-101637254025540.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to attend 56th DGP Conference in Lucknow on Nov 20-21||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 56th Conference of Director Generals of Police (DGP) and Inspector Generals of Police (IGP) at Police Headquarters, Lucknow on November 20 and 21, said a press release from Press Information Bureau.Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate the conference on Friday evening. About 250 officers in the rank of DGP and IGP from all states, union territories and central government will take part in the meet organised by the Intelligence Bureau.The release said the conference will be held in hybrid format. It said the DGP of states/UTs and Heads of Central Armed Police Forces and Central Police Organisations will attend the conference physically at the venue in Lucknow while the remaining invitees will participate virtually from 37 different locations at IB/SIB Headquarters.The conference will discuss a wide range of issues including cyber crime, data governance, counter terrorism challenges, left wing extremism, emerging trends in narcotics trafficking, prison reforms among others.Since 2014, the Prime Minister has taken a keen interest in the DGP conference. Unlike the symbolic presence earlier, he makes it a point to attend all sessions of the conference and encourages free and informal discussions that provide an opportunity to top police officials to directly brief the Prime Minister on key policing and internal security issues affecting the country.As per the vision of the Prime Minister, since 2014, the annual conferences, which used to be customarily organised in Delhi, have been organised outside Delhi with an exception of the year 2020 when the conference was held virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-attend-56th-dgp-conference-in-lucknow-on-nov-2021-101637253363551.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation general body promises to waive property tax for Thane flats with area up to 500sqft||With the civic polls round the corner, Shiv Sena has finally taken a step to fulfil the property tax waiver promise of the previous election.The Thane Municipal Corporation general body, on Thursday, passed a resolution to waive off property tax for flats with an area up to 500 square feet. The resolution will now be sent to the state government for approval. The opposition has, however, raised doubts saying that this might merely be a poll gimmick.The ruling party had promised Thane residents that they would waive property tax in 2017, though they had to face a lot of criticism for not being able to fulfil it.Senior Sena corporator, Ram Repale, informed the general body on Thursday that the Urban Development Minister, Eknath Shinde and CM Uddhav Thackeray have approved the tax waiver for up to 500sqft flats in Thane. Former mayor, Ashok Vaity, passed a resolution in the general body to waive property tax, which was seconded by leader of the opposition, Shannu Pathan.The waiver will, however, be implemented only after the approval of the state government. Mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “This is a historic decision for Thane city. The resolution is passed in the house and soon a panel of civic officials will meet the state officials. We will also request the State to allot funds to the corporation as tax waiver will add to its financial burden.”However, BJP corporator Manohar Dumbre remarked that the ruling party required five years to pass the resolution. He also added that Sena should ensure that the decision is implemented and is not merely a poll gimmick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-promises-to-waive-property-tax-for-thane-flats-with-area-up-to-500sqft-101637252524043.html
18-11-2021||Other||Transport dept invites private players to set up automated testing stations for fitness test||PATNA: The state transport department has decided to introduce automated testing stations to check fitness of commercial vehicles and to bring efficiency in the evaluation system. The department has invited applications from private players till December 15 for setting up these stations. Transport minister Sheela Kumari said the automated fitness testing centres will help reduce road accidents as unfit vehicles will be scrapped out. “The initiative will also help in identifying unfit vehicles and those causing air pollution. All those vehicles will be debarred from operation”, she added. At present, motor vehicle inspectors manually examine various parts of a vehicle during a fitness test. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “In this new system, all parts of the vehicles will be checked by machines without any human intervention. The new system will be more efficient as only those vehicles passing the test as per specified parameters will be issued a fitness certificate. We have planned to set up one such automated testing centre in each district.” As per the department, new commercial vehicles are issued fitness certificate with 2 years of validity which are subsequently renewed for one year. Interested individuals or companies can apply for setting up automated fitness testing centres at transport commissioner office situated at Vishwesharaiya Bhawan latest by December 15. “After closing of application window, a special team will be constituted to review applications and verify proposed venue for setting up the centres”, said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-dept-invites-private-players-to-set-up-automated-testing-stations-for-fitness-test-101637252164133.html
18-11-2021||Patna||Raid on MU vice chancellor reignites debate over selection process||The searches on Wednesday at the office and premises of Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad, his subordinates and others in a corruption case has reignited the debate on the mechanism of selection of persons for the apex position in the state’s institutions of higher education.It was the same issue that had reached the Supreme Court in 2013 during the term of late Devanand Konwar as Bihar’s Governor and later all the appointments of VCs were quashed. Governor is the ex officio chancellor of universities in the state.The apex court had then called for a transparent mechanism involving short listing of candidates through a search committee and “meaningful and effective” consultation between the chancellor and the state government for appointment of VCs. The issue had led to face-off between the state government and the chancellor office and eventually led to the transfer of Konwar to Tripura.However, not much has improved since then.Referring to Wednesday’s searches, Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said such things earn Bihar a bad name. “Though the matter is beyond education department’s purview, the appointment and functioning of VCs should be transparent and only the deserving ones should be picked. At the top, one must appear to be clean and transparent,” he said.On Thursday, the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar( Futab) said acts of corruption, as reported about MU VC, “bring shame to the entire teaching community and raises the issue of serious flaws in process of their selection”. “Therefore, the Chancellor should ask all the VCs and those officials dealing with university finance, including examination, to immediately declare their assets,” said Futab working president KB Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar Singh, an MLC.Citing the usual practice of obtaining police verification reports before appointment to any high office, they said it seemed to have been given a go-by. “The VCs wield more powers than even a cabinet minister but unfortunately the power is not being used to improve academic and administrative environment,” they said.Social analyst Prof NK Choudhary said both Raj Bhawan and the government would have to take the blame for continuous slide in higher education and selection of VCs with dubious record. “Premises of VC being raided was unheard of earlier. We are getting reports that huge cash has also been recovered. All this points to deep malaise and the factors that have led to such a situation need to be addressed forthwith. It means something seriously amiss and the authorities must get to the bottom of the matter, as exposing one may not be enough. There may be more black sheep and their patrons,” he said.A number of VCs from MU, JPU, BRABU, Purnia University in the recent past has come under vigilance cases. Recently Prof. Jaiswal from PPU had to resign before completion of tenure, while the VC of VKSU was sent on forced leave after inquiry pointed to irregularities at their level. Several other VCs of NOU, TMBU and BNMU had to resign after a very short period of their selection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/raid-on-mu-vice-chancellor-reignites-debate-over-selection-process-101637252162833.html
18-11-2021||Other||PCI seeks report from Bihar govt over journo murder||The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from Bihar’s chief secretary and police chief over the alleged abduction and murder of a Madhubani-based journalist Buddhinath Jha alias Avinash Jha (23).Taking suo motu cognisance of the incident, PCI chairman Chandramauli Kumar Prasad has expressed his concern over the matter, according to an official press release, dated November 17.Police have so far arrested six people in the case, including a woman Purnkala Devi, all natives of Benipatti block, where the slain journalist lived.Jha, also an RTI activist, went missing on the night of November 9. His partially burnt body was recovered in a sack from Urain village, along the state highway, under Benipatti police station on November 12, two days after his elder brother Chandrabhushan Jha informed the police about his disappearance.Jha has been highlighting illegally running private nursing homes and hospitals in his reports for the news portal he worked with, though police have claimed a “love triangle” as the reason behind the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pci-seeks-report-from-bihar-govt-over-journo-murder-101637252104241.html
18-11-2021||Other||Jhanjharpur judge assaulted by cops||MADHUBANIAn additional district judge at Jhanjharpur subdivisional civil court in Bihar’s Madhubani district was manhandled by policemen in his chamber on Thursday, lawyers at the court said.Balram Sah, vice president of Jhanjharpur Bar Association, alleged that two policemen, Ghoghardiha police station house officer Gopal Krishna and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar, barged into ADG Avinash Kumar’s chamber, assaulted him and pointed a pistol at him. Shah said when members of the Bar heard the noise inside the judge’s chamber, they rushed to rescue him.The two policemen had appeared before the judge in an ongoing case. Till the filing of this report, it was not yet clear as to why the policemen assaulted the judge.Enraged over the incident, lawyers staged a protest and demanded action against the policemen involved as well as Madhubani superintendent of police Satyaprakash.Meanwhile, the local bar association passed a resolution condemning the incident. “It is an attack on judiciary by administration,” it said. The association has also written to district and sessions judge of Madhubani regarding the incident. ADG Avinash Kumar has been in news for some of his judgments/remarks, including against the Madhubani SP, where he asked the state police chief to send him for further training on law. In other orders, Kumar had asked a man accused of molestation to clean clothes of woman for a fortnight.Madhubani SP could not be contacted for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jhanjharpur-judge-assaulted-by-cops-101637252102998.html
18-11-2021||Other||200 inter-caste couple await grant of ₹50,000 in Sangrur, Barnala||Sangrur Five years after they broke a social ‘taboo’ by marrying outside their caste, over 200 couples have been awaiting ₹50,000 as one-time financial grant from the government in Sangrur and Barnala districts. The money is part of a Central scheme in which the ratio of contribution is 50%, for the state as well as the Centre. Sources in the district welfare government said the applications filed till 2014-2015 had been cleared, with funds awaited for couples who had applied after that. As per the district welfare department, overall, 200 couples applied for this government assistance in Sangrur, but only 50 received the scheme benefit; 150 are waiting. In Barnala, 31 cases were cleared, but 55 continue to wait. In 2011, the Centre had doubled the benefit amount from ₹25,000 to ₹50,000. Dheeraj Kumar, of Sunam, who hails from the backward class and married an SC woman in 2014, said he had applied in 2016 but he has not received any government assistance to date.“My son is three-and-a-half-years old. I have visited officials concerned three times, but they used to say ‘the money has not been sanctioned by higher authorities’. I am not sure whether they (government) will grant financial aid or not,” added Kumar.Sarabjit Singh, of Sangrur district, got married in 2015 with a SC woman. Their daughter is now nearly 5. “I do odd jobs and earn around ₹10,000 per month. I submitted all documents in 2016, but I have not received any help from the government. Whenever I ask for financial assistance, the officials told me that they have sent my case and nothing is in their hand,” he added. Paramjit Kaur, an SC activist, said, “Inter-caste married couples need financial aid immediately after the knot, as then they face opposition from family and society.” Kamaljit Raju, district welfare officer Barnala, said, “To avail the scheme, one person should be from SC community and their partner should be a non-SC, whether BC or General. As of today, 55 cases are with the head office.” Sangrur DWO Gurinder Singh Dhaliwal said that the government gives ₹30,000 cash and ₹20,000 as fixed deposit (FD). “We have given the benefit of the scheme to 50 couples; 150 are waiting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/200-inter-caste-couple-await-grant-of-rs-50-000-in-sangrur-barnala-101637252043013.html
18-11-2021||Pune||PMC mulling F&B sales counters outside mobile ‘Ti toilets’||Despite the public objecting to the sale of food and beverage items outside the mobile “Ti (she)” toilets started by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in October 2016, the civic body has decided to allow private players to maintain these toilets by selling tea, coffee, cold drinks, mineral water and snacks outside the mobile toilets. These toilets were started by the PMC to address the shortage of women’s toilets at public places in the city. They were designed by modifying Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses that were not in use for commuting purposes. The first three mobile toilets were stationed outside the Mahatma Phule vegetable market, FC road and J M road. There are now 11 such toilets at public places in Aundh, Shivajinagar, Shaniwarwada, Baner, Sinhagad road, Bopodi, Yerawada, Lohegaon, Vishrantwadi and Wanowire. The running and maintenance of these toilets was awarded to private player, Sara Plast Private Limited, with the PMC providing a sanitary pad disposal machine, toilet seat sanitiser, and hand sanitiser. The contract was awarded to Sara Plast Private Limited in 2018 for a period of 11 months which ended in September 2019. Thereafter, the corporation has received several complaints regarding the misuse of and lack of maintenance of these toilets though according to PMC officials, the toilets were not in use during the pandemic.The PMC has now floated a tender for the running and maintenance of these toilets and Sara Plast Private Limited has quoted the lowest charges of Rs18,000 per bus (toilet) per month for the maintenance of these toilets. The civic administration has tabled the proposal before the women and child welfare committee for approval to award the five-year contract to Sara Plast Private Limited not only to run and maintain the toilets and charge for their usage but also to sell tea, coffee, cold drinks, mineral water and snacks and to advertise on the buses (toilets) as the PMC will not bear any costs. As mentioned in the proposal, the corporation has newly introduced the clause of allowing the firm to sell tea, coffee, cold drinks, mineral water and snacks. The corporation has also mentioned that the public had objected to the selling of food and beverage items at these toilets.Rupali Dhawade, chairperson of the women and child welfare committee of the corporation said, “We have decided to visit the toilets and check their condition. According to the administration, out of 11 toilets, nine are operational. The administration is claiming that the toilets will be separate from the spaces where food and beverage items will be sold. However, we will see how they manage hygiene and other issues. We will also consider public opinion on this as there was resistance to the idea in Baner.”Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The PMC will not bear any cost of the facility if we allow the private player to sell tea, coffee, cold drinks etc. However, hygiene will be an important issue which the company will have to strictly follow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-mulling-f-b-sales-counters-outside-mobile-ti-toilets-101637251623488.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court grants interim bail to 5 in ED case against Anil Deshmukh||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday granted interim bail to five persons booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering case against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Special PMLA Judge M G Deshpande granted interim bail to Delhi-based purported hawala operators Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Kumar Jain, businessman Kishore Dewani, and Deshmukh’s chartered accountants Vinod Hassani and Vishal Khatwani on a personal bond of ₹3 lakh each. The court has posted their regular bail pleas for hearing on December 1. ED claimed that its probe revealed that on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze called a meeting of some Mumbai bar owners and collected ₹4.7 crore from Orchestra Bar owners for smooth functioning of their establishments. Subsequently, ED claimed, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh got an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities – operated by the Jain brothers - as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shishan Sanstha, Nagpur. Hassani and Khatwani had allegedly introduced Jain brothers to Hrishikesh, purportedly for converting the ill-gotten cash into donations to the family-controlled Shri Sai Shikshan Sanastha, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-grants-interim-bail-to-5-in-ed-case-against-anil-deshmukh-101637251142617.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||No communal riots when BJP is in power, claims Anil Bonde||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Anil Bonde, who was recently arrested in connection with communal violence in Amravati and released on bail, said no riots are reported whenever the BJP comes to power. He further said that the riots occur when the secular or left government is in power. Bhonde also alleged that a large section of the Muslim community is involved in illegal activities and that money is being used for rioting. Bonde made the claims in a discussion on Twitter Spaces. The audio copy of the claims was posted by Maharashtra the Nationalist Congress party (NCP) minister Nawab Malik on Twitter on Thursday. Bonde reiterated the comments later in a press conference held in Amravati. “Listen to this BJP MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly) from Amravati,” Malik tweeted, quoting a popular Hindi phrase, “Jhoot bole kauva kaate,” (If you lie, a black crow will bite you). “Gujarat saw no (communal) riots post-Godhra riots. In Ahmedabad, there were riots every year. However, no riots were reported ever since the Modi government came to power (in Gujarat), in the past 10-15 years. Even in Yogi ji’s government (in Uttar Pradesh) there were no riots reported. Similarly, no communal riot was reported in the five years of Devendra Fadnavis government (in Maharashtra)… But whenever a secular or left government comes in power they (Muslims) dare to do such activities because they know they have some protection from the (political) leaders,” Bonde can be heard saying in the audio clip. “Whenever BJP comes in power, they (Muslim community) don’t dare to create nuisance and I’m not saying this as its office-bearer… This is a fact and everyone should understand this. I have seen in the past five years of the Fadnavis government, not a single case of the riot was reported even in sensitive areas,” he added. Later, in a press conference, he said he is firm on his statement. “Riots occur in the states where the so-called secular or left government is in power because they and their ministers protect and encourage riots and it is my experience,” Bonde told reporters in Amravati. Bonde was arrested by Amravati police on Monday in connection with the violence over the weekend, along with a few local leaders. He was released on bail by a local court the same day. Amravati city witnessed arson and vandalisation of shops, establishments and vehicles during a bandh called by the BJP on Saturday. It was called to protest against violence in Amravati, Nanded and Nashik districts on Friday, during a one-day protest called against violence against the Muslim community in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-communal-riots-when-bjp-is-in-power-claims-anil-bonde-101637251082755.html
18-11-2021||Other||Under property rights scheme, Punjab surveys 447 villages||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Thursday said drone survey of 447 villages in Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Rupnagar districts has been completed under the ‘Mera Ghar, Mere Naam” scheme. In Gurdaspur, the drone survey has been completed in 335 villages and 57 property cards have been distributed to property owners to date, whereas 59 villages of Chamkaur Sahib tehsil in Rupnagar and 53 villages of Rampura Phul tehsil in Bathinda have been covered. “This scheme will be implemented in all districts,” Punjab revenue and rehabilitation minister Aruna Chaudhary said.She added that property cards of proprietary rights were being prepared and will be issued to owners in villages to enable people to avail benefits of schemes of the state government on their properties within the ambit of Lal Lakir. “The government has also enacted ‘The Punjab Abadi Deh (Record of Rights) Act 2021’ to give statutory rights to this record,’’ the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/under-property-rights-scheme-punjab-surveys-447-villages-101637250962770.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||1.78mn in Thane district yet to take first vaccination dose against Covid: Data||Almost a week after Mumbai completed 100% first dose coverage of the Covid-19 vaccine on November 13, Thane district data suggests that 1.78 million people are yet to take the first dose. The district’s eligible adult population is 9.9 million, and the overall population (2011 Census) is 11 million. According to data released by the district information officer, 1.07 million people from Thane’s urban pockets are yet to take the vaccine, while 6,34,000 from the rural areas haven’t been inoculated yet. The rest are from other areas. Manish Renge, district health officer (DHO), said, “While it is true that around 1.78 million in Thane district are yet to get the first vaccine dose, the vaccination drive has picked up pace. Between 40,000 and 60,000 people are getting vaccinated every day at present.” Until earlier this week, Thane District completed inoculations of 8.86 million beneficiaries. Among these, 5.686 million received at least one dose, while 3.18 million are fully vaccinated. In effect, around 78% of the overall beneficiaries have been inoculated at least once and 42% are fully vaccinated. Officials said vaccine hesitancy, a shortage of doses in May and June, a reluctant tribal population of over 1.5 million and disparity in distribution of doses are some of the reasons for this gap between Thane and Mumbai. Thane District is also more complex than its more famous neighbour. It comprises six municipal corporations: Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Ulhasnagar and Kalyan-Dombivli. According to official district information office data for only public vaccination centres, Navi Mumbai has completed 51% first-dose coverage, Mira Bhayander 45%, and Thane 36%, Bhiwandi-Nizampur 36%, Kalyan Dombivli 34% and Ulhasnagar 27%. These figures do not include private vaccination data, which could take the percentages up. Dr Ravindra Sanglikar, pulmonologist, Vedant Hospital, Thane, said, “It’s been two weeks after Diwali, and there is no rise in Covid cases. It would seem the district has developed some level of herd immunity. However, getting vaccinated is important and the unvaccinated population will definitely have a role to play in case a third wave happens. Thane has a significant moving population, and many commute to Mumbai for work. The low vaccination figures can prove risky for Mumbai as well.” Dr Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter, said, “If 100% vaccination is achieved we can avoid a third wave. Moreover, with herd immunity and vaccination, the need for hospitalisation will reduce. We can make use of makeshift Covid facilities and avoid a lockdown-like situation if more get vaccinated.” Renge explained, “Access to vaccination centres, and remote pockets within city limits are primary reasons for Thane district lagging. Besides, there was shortage of vaccine doses from May all the way up to mid-August. When supply stabilised, the festive season began and people were reluctant to visit vaccination centres. Some even went to Mumbai for their inoculation.” To increase reach, therefore, authorities said they are conducting vaccination drives in public places and installing mobile vaccination centres.Then, there is the tricky question of disparity in supply. District officials claim that Thane did not receive adequate doses. “When vaccination was started for all, Thane received far fewer doses than Mumbai,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. “Now when Mumbai has achieved its target, Thane is getting enough doses. There was a time when there was chaos and one could see long queues outside vaccination centres.” District authorities said they aim to complete 100% first dose vaccination by end of November. “Unlike Mumbai, Thane has a huge rural and semi-urban population in areas such as Ambernath and Badlapur. Reluctance and a lack of awareness about the benefits of the vaccine kept many away. However, with increased inoculations and awareness initiatives, a positive response is noted,” said Rajesh Narvekar, district collector, Thane. Narvekar has ordered all civic bodies, municipal councils and gram panchayats to identify pockets that have proportionally less-vaccinated populations. Thane Municipal Corporation data says 27% of the people within the corporation limits have not taken even one dose. That number rises to 30% in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, on the other hand, says 95% of its eligible population has taken the first dose. “We have undertaken a door-to-door survey to check those that are still unvaccinated,” an NMMC officer said. Dr Anjali Chaudhari, district vaccination officer, Thane, said, “There is fear and reluctance in the minds of some in the district’s rural areas. Conducting the drive in public places will allow them to notice how fearlessly people are getting vaccinated and this may drive their fear away.” According to Zilla Parishad officials, the harvest season and Diwali festivities were the reason for a low turnout and the general lack of interest to get vaccinated from among those in the rural areas of Thane district. From November 11 till November 18 a special drive focusing on creating greater awareness with the help of teachers, gram panchayat members, and women and child development officials was initiated in rural areas. Moreover, around 1.5 million people from tribal pockets are being reached out to, Zilla Parishad officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/178mn-in-thane-district-yet-to-take-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-data-101637249824032.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Runway re-carpeting at Pune’s Lohegaon airport in final stages; 24-hr ops from December 1||PUNE With the runway re-carpeting work at the Lohegaon airport in Pune in its final stages, the airport authority is confident that 24-hour operations will resume at the airport from December 1. “With 24-hour operations proper spacing between flights will be ensured and it will help to manage things in a much better way. Night operations have always seen a good response in Pune and we are expecting to start new flights,” said an official from the Pune airport on request on anonymity. Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune tweeted on Thursday: “Pune Airport will be open for full-time passenger transport from December 1. Work on the runway at Pune Airport has now been completed and Pune Airport will be available full-time for passenger traffic. Currently, it is 8 am to 8 pm, which is causing inconvenience to citizens”.The runway resurfacing work at the airport has been going on since the last quarter of 2020. The total length of the runway at the airport is 2,530 metres.“We only had a 14-day shut down, leaving operations to continue for 12 hours. We cannot shut the airport for a longer duration,” said the airport official, adding that international flights are expected to start from January 2022.Demand for Dubai flightsFlyers have already started to raise queries for Dubai flights. Two flight were operating to Dubai from Pune, before the Covid lockdowns.“Flight for Dubai is expected, but it is not confirmed by any airlines till now. We hope to have flights for other international locations as well,” the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/runway-re-carpeting-at-pune-s-lohegaon-airport-in-final-stages-24-hr-ops-from-december-1-101637249582582.html
18-11-2021||Other||Punjab SC panel member tells police to re-probe Aug 2020 Barnala suicide||Barnala Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes member Chandreshwar Singh Mohi on Thursday visited Dhurkot village in the district to meet a Scheduled Caste woman, Manjit Kaur, whose son Gurtej Singh had committed suicide in August 2020, after facing harassment from liquor contractors. Mohi also visited Rureke police station and directed the police to reinvestigate the case. “The police had registered a case, but no arrest was made. I have directed the DSP to re-investigate the matter. Kaur’s statement is being recorded again and the accused will be arrested soon,” said Mohi. The SC commission member also visited the Mangewal village in the district, regarding a dispute over a local dera. Mohi asked Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia to submit a report after investigation within 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-sc-panel-member-tells-police-to-re-probe-aug-2020-barnala-suicide-101637249282676.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Students taking private tuitions increased by 6.6% in Maharashtra: ASER||Students enrolled who undertook learning activities through online education at home are fewer in government schools (42.7 per cent), as compared to private schools (51.2 per cent) in Maharashtra, as per the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 released on Wednesday. This has in turn also affected students’ learning ability as now more students in the state depend on private tuitions as compared to 2018. The report further revealed that students taking private tuitions have increased by 6.6 per cent in Maharashtra. The report was published by NGO Pratham and has evaluated all Indian states based on different parameters.According to the report, it is seen that the proportion of children taking tuitions has increased from 2018 to 2021, regardless of grade, school type, or sex.“Currently, almost 40% of children in India and 20.7% of children in Maharashtra take paid private tuition classes. The largest increases in the proportion of children taking tuitions are seen among children from the most disadvantaged households. Taking parental education as a proxy for economic status, between 2018 and 2021, the proportion of children with parents in the ‘low’ education category who are taking tuitions have shown an increase,” states the report.The report also highlights that there are some differences in the proportion of children taking tuitions bsed on the status of schools reopening, with tuition classes more common among children whose schools were still closed at the time of the survey.The report revealed that in Maharashtra there were 14.2 per cent students receiving private tuitions in 2018 and that has increased to 20.7 per cent in 2021.“This difference in tuition-taking is larger in higher classes than in lower ones,” said the report.Dinkar Temkar, state education director (primary) said that as competition increases so does the private tuitions.“Earlier, students would get admission based on class 12 results but now for courses like engineering and medicine, there are competitive examinations. And so the need for private tuitions has increased. Moreover, many government schools could not use the interactive methods of teaching while imparting online education as there were limitations. Many government schools were catering to students from rural parts which had many different challenges and so the percentage of interactive activities have been less in government schools in the last two years,” said Temkar.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association said that there is a trend today to take private tuitions.“Many parents enrol their children for private tuitions because there is an ongoing trend. Teachers in government schools are experienced and take pride in teaching students,” said Gaikwad.There has been a 9.2% rise in student enrollment in government schools in the 6-14 year age group in Maharashtra in three years since 2018, as per the report. Talking about the enrollment of more students in government schools, Mukund Kirdat, city- based education activist said that the number may be temporary.“There is an increase but it is not much. In Pune itself, there are hardly 1,500 students who are now enrolled in government schools. Due to the pandemic with financial difficulties, this trend can be seen,” said Kirdat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-taking-private-tuitions-increased-by-6-6-in-maharashtra-aser-101637248682588.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray may be discharged in a day or two; may take few days to resume work||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating after a cervical spine surgery at HN Reliance Hospital last Friday, is expected to be out of action for a few more days. It also means the state government’s policy and political decisions could be put on hold, according to state government officials. According to senior Shiv Sena leaders, Thackeray is expected to get discharged in a day or two and is likely to rest for a few more days before resuming work. However, he will begin work from home, and for the same, he is expected to shift to his official residence Varsha bungalow at Malabar Hill, instead of his Bandra residence Matoshree. “Thackeray has undergone major surgery for the spinal disorder. The discharge was expected on Wednesday or Thursday, but his family preferred to follow up treatment at the hospital. The discharge is expected in a day or two. He has been advised to rest for a couple of weeks after the discharge, which will be followed by physiotherapy sessions for recovery. He is expected to resume work online next week. He will not be able to travel, sit or stand for a long time,” said an official from the chief minister’s office (CMO). The surgery was performed by Dr Shekhar Bhojraj and Ajit Desai on November 12, after his hospitalisation two days before it. Another state official said certain decisions of the state government may get delayed as Thackeray won’t be available for discussions for some time. It could include a decision on slashing value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel and a decision on the chief secretary, as the incumbent Sitaram Kunte is retiring on November 30. Thackeray will have to decide whether to give an extension to Kunte or select a new chief secretary. Besides, the government may take a call on suspension of IPS officer Param Bir Singh, who was on Wednesday declared absconding by a city court. A state cabinet meeting is scheduled to take place on November 24 and the chief minister is likely to attend it online from Varsha. “He has been clearing the files which are extremely important. It is true that the policy decisions have taken a backseat as major proposals need either the clearance of the state cabinet or the CM. There is no certainty if the cabinet scheduled for next week will happen. Even if it took place, Thackeray will attend it online. He has not handed over his charge to the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar or any other senior minister from Shiv Sena,” the official said. Besides the key decision, the uncertainty over the winter session also lingers large. The session is scheduled to be held in Nagpur from December 7, but it has become certain now that it will be postponed by a few weeks. According to the officials from Mantralaya, the decision over the date of the session and whether to hold it in Nagpur or Mumbai will be taken after the CM resumes the work. A Shi Sena leader said that Thackeray was suffering from back and neck pain for a few weeks before he underwent the surgery. The leader said that though the surgery could have been deferred by a few months, it was avoided keeping the hectic schedule in mind during the local body elections to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-may-be-discharged-in-a-day-or-two-may-take-few-days-to-resume-work-101637248388183.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||3rd Kalwa Creek Bridge in Thane to be extended to Patni, says minister Awhad||The third Kalwa Creek Bridge, which was supposed to be constructed till Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital, also known as Kalwa Hospital, will now be extended further to Patni. Another lane will be constructed from the left side of the creek towards Atmaram Chowk in Kalwa to ease the traffic congestion in Kalwa, informed housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Thursday.Awhad did a survey of the ongoing projects with MMRDA officials while the changes were also on the agenda of the meeting held recently with Urban Development Minister, Eknath Shinde.SVR.Srinivas, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, had come to survey the projects on the agenda to check its feasibility.Awhad said, “Ending the third Kalwa Bridge near the hospital will only add to the traffic woes. So, we had suggested that it be extended to Patni ground, which the commissioner has approved. To avoid the congestion near the civic hospital, a parallel road to Kharegoan from the Creek to Atmaram Chowk will bypass the vehicular load near the hospital. The design for the said road is also ready. Similarly, the work on the pedestrian bridge near Vitawa will also be completed in four months.”He also said that they have demanded that the state start the toll collection on Mumbra Bypass Road as most heavy vehicles use the bypass. “Imposing toll will ensure vehicles do not use the road unnecessarily while the road will also be maintained,” Awhad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-kalwa-creek-bridge-in-thane-to-be-extended-to-patni-says-minister-awhad-101637248387052.html
18-11-2021||Pune||2023 deadline for Pune-Mumbai expressway “missing link” to be missed: MSRDC||Work on a stretch of highway between the Khopoli exit of the Mumbai-Pune expressway on the Yashwantrao Chavan expressway and the Sinhgad Institute will now begin, after being a victim of several stop-start efforts due to the Covid-19 lockdowns dating back to August 2020.This 19km stretch, cited as a “missing link” of the Mumba-Pune expressway, was chasing an April 2023 deadline, which, officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) said on Thursday, that is unlikely.“The lockdown is the major reason work slowed down. Now work in on in full swing. The deadline will be extended to complete the project and we are monitoring work on a regular basis,” said an official from the MSRDC on request of anonymity.As part of the project, the existing six lanes on the said stretch will be turned into eight lanes and the distance reduced to 13.3 km. With this “link” in place, the total length of the expressway from Pune to Mumbai will be reduced by 6km and travel time reduce by 20-25 minutes.“Once the missing link project is completed we expect the number of accidents to go down by 50 percent. People will be able to travel avoiding the Khandala ghat,” official said, adding, “The new route will not have steep turns which reduce accidents.” The work on this road section is devided into two phases. In the first phase two 8-lane tunnels, 1.66km and 8.89km in length, will be constructed.In the second phase two 8-lane viaducts – 900m and 650m each - will be constructed. This second phases will run from the Khalapur toll plaza to the Khopoli exit.“One viaduct will be a cable-stayed bridge like the Bandra -Worli sea link. It will have a 650-metre span,” added the official.The total project comprises two tunnels, two viaducts, three bridges, one small bridge, culverts and the 4+4 lane highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2023-deadline-for-pune-mumbai-expressway-missing-link-to-be-missed-msrdc-101637248382603.html
18-11-2021||Pune||No concrete solutions for SPPU chowk leave traffic in a mess||At a time when the Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA) is planning various measures to ensure smooth flow of traffic at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk, residents of and commuters travelling through Aundh, Baner, Pashan and Aundh road are facing major logjams, almost every day. Ever since the demolition of the old flyover a year ago and of the long turn towards Senapati Bapat road, navigating Raj Bhavan road and university chowk has become a nightmare.Vaishali Patkar, who travels daily between Balewadi and SB road, said, “All the traffic gets jammed at one junction at the University chowk and it takes more than 30 to 45 minutes to cross the small stretch between the university gate and the turning towards Senapati Bapat road at Bhosale nagar. Nowadays, I avoid travelling via the university in the morning and evening. Many a time, I get stuck in traffic which is made worse by pollution.”While it takes at least 25 minutes to cross the university signal while travelling from Baner to Senapati Bapat road, commuters are not keen on diversions as they feel it is a waste of time and money and will not help the situation.Sanskriti Menon said, “Diversions are not going to work and the only solution is to increase public transport. I also feel that diverting traffic through the university is a bad idea. The university is a place for students to pursue their studies. Students will be back on campus soon and for no fault of theirs, they will be subjected to noise and pollution and the tranquil atmosphere will be highly disturbed.”Another commuter, Sujit Kulkarni, echoed similar sentiments. “More public transport will help. Also, people should start using more and more share rides. Like Sride is one option I use frequently,” he said.Harshad Abhyangkar, an urban planning and transport expert, said, “I remember that when the earlier flyovers were being built, PMPML buses were diverted ‘to streamline traffic’ whereas private vehicles enjoyed the shortest route. This increased fuel expenses for PMPML and duration of the trip for PMPML commuters. They should not repeat the mistake once again. If at all they want to divert, they should divert cars and two-wheelers. In fact, they should additionally provide more PMPML buses, un-diverted. If some private vehicle users do not like PMPML enjoying a diversion-free ride, they can keep their vehicles at home and take the bus instead.”Meanwhile, some people are of the view that if it takes a four-wheeler at university circle one to one-and-a-half hours to travel, it will take just 10 minutes on a bicycle if there is a dedicated track. Some residents blamed politicians for PMC’s ‘elaborate and devious’ plan to purposely create traffic chaos to justify destructive road projects such as HCMTR, Balbharti-Paud phata road and Kothrud-Panchawati tunnel.“These projects are illogical and will not solve traffic issues. They will in fact create more problems and increase pollution. The real reason these are even being designed and pushed is for the benefit of a few contractors and builders,” said a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-concrete-solutions-for-sppu-chowk-leave-traffic-in-a-mess-101637247963734.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 248 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths on Thursday||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 248 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection on Thursday. The two deaths were reported in rural Pune.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 522,220 Covid-19 cases and 9,208 deaths. While Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 269,348 cases so far and a total of 3,509 deaths due to virus infection. Pune rural has reported 366,964 total cases so far and 6,947 deaths due to Covid-19.The progressive count of the Pune district stands at 1,158,532 Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,135,576 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,010 deaths and at present, there are 2,943 active cases.As per the state health department, 972 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,471,763 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.65%.Across Maharashtra, 963 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 28 deaths due to the infection were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated out of 64,384,736 laboratory samples, 6,627,838 have been tested positive till Thursday that is 10.29% of patients.Currently, 116,282 people are in-home quarantine and 1,024 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-248-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-on-thursday-101637247603310.html
18-11-2021||Pune||PMC not in favour of ‘double-decker’ flyover due to inflated costs||PUNE With the cost of turning a flyover section from Rajaram bridge to Fun Time cinema into a double-decker roadway inflating the project cost by ₹25 crore, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration is not in favour of executing the same. Union minister for Road Transport Nitin Gadkari recently conducted the ground breaking of the flyover on Sinhgad road, and at the event he suggested the PMC to adopt the techniques used by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Gadkari suggested that within the same cost PMC would be able to build double-decker flyovers, which would help to address future traffic problems. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane then asked the administration to look into the possibility. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said, “The administration checked the proposal and it is adding more ₹25 crore in cost. As the cost is increasing, the administration has suggested not to do it, but municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar will take a call on it.” Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party city unit president Prashant Jagtap supported the administration not to build a double -decker flyover. The ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stays aggressive on adopt ing the new technology to build the double decker considering the future needs. 12 parties interested in bidding for riverfront development project A total of 12 parties have shown an interest in bidding for the riverfront development project between Sangamwadi and Bund Garden, Pune Municipal Corporation officials said on Thursday.This section is only phase one of the riverfront development project in the city. The 12 parties have submitted their expressions of interest and technical scrutiny of the same is currently on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-not-in-favour-of-double-decker-flyover-due-to-inflated-costs-101637247362353.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||5% of Navi Mumbai population not taken first vaccination dose against Covid, claims NMMC||Even as Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has crossed the target assigned by the State for vaccinating the first dose, it feels that there could be around 5% population yet to get their first dose.In ‘har ghar dastak’ campaign, around 4,500 have received their first dose via door-to-door campaign and railway station booths till now.“The population in Navi Mumbai is a floating one and the numbers are notional. There would definitely be people remaining for their first dose. We will soon figure out the estimated number after consulting all the Urban Primary Health heads. The number of people coming for their first dose is much less than what it used to be. Hence, the number of people remaining would be less than 10%,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Meanwhile, a health officer attached to NMMC has said that the percentage of people remaining for the first dose would be around 5%.In the door-to-door campaign that has now started in gaothans, the civic officials have been assigned to first identify the people yet to take their first or second dose.“After identifying the person, he/she is informed about the centres where he/she can go. Even then if there is hesitancy, the person is counselled and then vaccinated at home itself. Initially, it was mass-awareness that was being done for vaccination. Now, we are doing one-to-one awareness and even counselling wherever required,” Bangar added.Till now, in 133 sessions, around 4,404 people have received their first dose in the ‘har ghar dastak’ programme and 5,662 received their second dose. The maximum number of people who have got their first dose is 399 from Ghansoli in 10 sessions, followed by 383 in Ithanpada in seven sessions. The vaccination booths have been set up in Vashi, Nerul and Ghansoli railway stations as well. While Vashi and Nerul have had six sessions till date, one session has occurred in Ghansoli.The highest number of people who got their first dose is at Ghansoli railway station with 296 people followed by 156 at Vashi railway station and 61 at Nerul railway station. Meanwhile, 1,087 people have received their second dose from the railway station booths with 514 at Ghansoli, 474 at Vashi and 99 at Nerul. Till now, a total of 11.45 lakh people have received their first dose in Navi Mumbai and 6.83 lakh received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-of-navi-mumbai-population-not-taken-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-claims-nmmc-101637247247535.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Manpada resident in Thane claims to have sighted leopard||A resident of Krishna Nagar in Manpada, Thane, claimed to have spotted a leopard on Wednesday evening.Following the claim, the forest officials paid a visit to the areas. However, they have not found any traces of the leopard but have asked the residents to be vigilant.Mohini More, a 14-year-old resident of Krishna Nagar, said, “At around 7.30pm, I was sitting at the entrance of my home when I saw a hen fluttering, and chasing the hen was a leopard. I immediately closed the main door of my home and called for my father. Later, my neighbours and family members burst some crackers to drive away the leopard.”The area is closer to the Manpada gate of Yeoor National Park and has a history of leopard sightings.More was the only one who saw the leopard, after which the residents informed the forest officials.“We inspected the area and did not find any pug marks or other signs. We cannot confirm if it was indeed a leopard. It could be any other feline that was mistaken to be a leopard by the girl,” said a forest officer from Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/manpada-resident-in-thane-claims-to-have-sighted-leopard-101637245922891.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Easy transfer of farm land for industrial purpose needed, IIA urges UP govt||LUCKNOW The Indian Industries Association (IIA) has suggested to the state government to make available 200-500 acres land along expressways for ensuring rapid industrialisation of these areas and a new policy to ensure easy and direct transfer of farm land from owners to industrialists. As part of its industrial policy, the UP government has decided to set up industrial parks along the expressways. With this objective, it has decided to prepare land banks along expressways. To start with, land banks will first be prepared on Agra-Lucknow expressway and Purvanchal expressway. “We have suggested to the state government to make available 200 to 500 acres land along expressways for setting up industrial units,” said Ashok Agarwal, national president, IIA. Transfer of rural land for industrial use and change of land use is a major issue for both land owners and industrialists. The IIA has urged the state government to make land transfer hassle free for owners. This will also encourage farmers to offer their land for industrial use, said officials. “Transfer of farm land for industrial use is no easy job. A new policy is needed to remove all obstacles for using farm land for industrial purpose. There must be no restriction on a farmer if he wants to directly sell his land to an industrialist for industrial use,” pointed out Agarwal. “If this policy is adopted along expressways, then both farmers and industrialists will approach each other without any hassle,” he added. The industrial associations had also suggested to the state government to develop industrial parks near inhabited places so that easy availability of water and electricity could be ensured to industrial units. INDUSTRIAL PARKS TO COME UP HEREHargaon village, Firozabad (Agra-Lucknow Expressway) Buhana village (connecting Agra-Lucknow Expressway and the Yamuna Expressway) Pohara village, Chitrakoot (Bundelkhand Expressway) Bara village, Barabanki (Purvanchal Expressway) Mohabbatpur (Mainpuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/easy-transfer-of-farm-land-for-industrial-purpose-needed-iia-urges-up-govt-101637245562422.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gratitude song at dusk, hopeful prayer at dawn||Can there ever be a limit to one’s love for nature? My answer is, “Not at all!” For me, it is impossible to explain the extent of my closeness with nature. I also lack the capacity to fully define its innumerable vistas and phases. I thrive on proximity to nature and it rejuvenates me like nothing else. Enjoying the company of natural surroundings is by far the best means of getting rid of depression or other such maladies. An admirer of nature, rejects all other means of entertainment. Once a nature aficionado, is always a nature aficionado even at the cost of becoming a laughing stock or being called a fanatic. But tranquillity and pleasure are the guaranteed outcomes of this association. William Wordsworth is so perfect in proclaiming, “Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.” Nature lovers are recognisable everywhere, on account of their distinct preferences. One of our relatives, a staunch lover of nature, never stays inside a wedding hall for more than a couple of minutes. He says, “I would rather sit out in the open, in the vicinity of trees and listen to the birds’ songs. Can’t tolerate this ear-shattering noise in the name of music. Rather this way we can converse with each other, otherwise we are so busy that we hardly ever meet.” Basically, such people with specific priorities live on an altogether different pedestal. I’m grateful for the attitude that I came to have i.e. my steadfast love for nature. I cannot even count the blessings that nature has bestowed upon me on account of this adoration. Let me share one of my own experiences. Recently, we took the hard decision to shift from our over three-decade-old house to a new place. But as it was a well-thought over plan, the change was quite welcome. At the time when we shifted, our evening tea time would coincide with the sundown every day. My husband and I chose to sit in the balcony to relish the cheering cup so as not to miss an iota of the full panoramic view of the setting sun. I reckon that being in the seventh decade of one’s life, has some link with this special affinity for the parting sun. The way the departing sun turns the azure sky into a riot of speckled shades of blue, orange, grey and finally turning it into dark grey, is nothing short of magic. Simultaneously, the birds swarm to the trees for the night’s rest. The choir presented by them at this time seems to be a gratitude song for a well-spent day. Another thing that seems too fascinating is that the same retiring sun which we see in the evening, appears the very next morning with a renewed vivacity, as if saying, “Here’s another glorious and golden day at your disposal; make it unique by doing something extraordinary to change this universe into a better place; thus, giving your life a charismatic aura.” parambirkaur@gmail.com The writer is a Ludhiana-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gratitude-song-at-dusk-hopeful-prayer-at-dawn-101637243943488.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||35-year-old arrested for sodomising 16-year-old in Ambernath||A 35-year-old allegedly raped a 16-year-old boy who came to Mumbai from the accused’s native village in Uttar Pradesh.The survivor was helping the accused’s brother who owns a shop in Ambernath. The accused slept beside the boy earlier this week and allegedly sodomised him. The boy later was also assaulted by the accused, identified as Umerkhan Usman Ullah Khan, for telling the incident to his mother.Shivaji Nagar police of Ambernath has arrested the accused. According to Shivaji Nagar police officials, the incident happened on November 15 night, when the survivor was sleeping alone in one of the shops. At around 10pm, the accused went to sleep near the boy. Initially, the boy didn’t realise as he was in deep sleep but later the accused allegedly forcefully sodomised him. The boy started crying when the accused slapped him and asked him to shut his mouth.A police officer said, “The boy later informed his mother over phone about the pain he was going through. The boy’s mother called the accused and demanded an explanation and also asked him to send her son back to their village. This enraged the accused who assaulted the survivor, breaking two of his teeth. A shop owner in the same area saw that the boy’s face was swollen. He took him home and won his trust, when the boy narrated the incident. He immediately brought the boy to the police station and filed a case under Section 377 of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/35yearold-arrested-for-sodomising-16-year-old-in-ambernath-101637241962138.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Gurudwara can hold Prabhat Pheri, says high court; raps state for singling out community||The Bombay high court (HC) rapped the state authorities for singling out the Sikh community by refusing them permission to conduct religious rituals related to Guru Nanak Jayanti, which will be celebrated on November 19. The court directed the concerned authorities to permit the community to conduct the rituals after it was assured that all Covid-19 protocols would be strictly adhered to while conducting the Prabhat Pheri from 4am to 10am on Friday. A division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing a petition filed by Dhan Guru Nanak Darbar Dera Sant Baba Thahriya Singh Sahabji, a gurudwara in Ulhasnagar was informed by advocate Bharat Bhatia that it was founded in 1948 and had been conducting Prabhat Pheri for 60 years to commemorate Guru Nanak Jayanti. Bhatia submitted that Prabhat Pheri started at 4am with a group of people carrying the Guru Granth Sahib, followed by devotees who do kirtan. The pheri, Bhatia submitted, ended at 7am and was being held similarly for the past 50 years. The bench was informed that the gurudwara through Hira Labana, an authorised representative, had applied to the assistant commissioner of police, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and others for permission to organise and conduct Prabhat Pheri this year, but was denied. Hence, they approached the HC. Bhatia argued that while other communities had been allowed to take out processions to commemorate their religious events, the denial by the authorities to the Sikh community was discriminatory. Bhatia said that the organisers had already issued directives to devotees intending to join the Prabhat Pheri to have double vaccination and was also willing to abide by the decibel level restrictions while doing kirtans. The state, through additional government pleader VM Mali, however, objected to the Prabhat Pheri stating that the organisers in 2018-2019 allegedly violated some sound pollution norms and had also invited DJs. After hearing the submissions, the court held, “We are quite unable to see how one particular religious institution can be singled out for a refusal of permission on a particular day.” The court further held, “We understand that to the petitioner, as to every other religious institution or organisation, the Covid-related restrictions will apply. We accept the statement of the petitioners as an undertaking to the court that they will strictly abide by all those restrictions including limiting the number of persons attending at any one time to the maximum permitted under the government-issued regulations and notifications. Only those who are fully vaccinated will be entitled to participate or be present. Sufficient care will be taken to scrutinize vaccination certificates or government-issued e-passes showing the vaccination status. Temperature checks are mandatory.” The court directed the authorities to grant required permission to the gurudwara and dispose of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gurudwara-can-hold-prabhat-pheri-says-high-court-raps-state-for-singling-out-community-101637241842093.html
18-11-2021||Dehradun||4 men who vandalised Salman Khurshid house arrested, key suspect missing: Police||HALDWANI: Four men suspected to be part of the group that vandalised Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital district on November 15 have been arrested, Nainital police officers said on Thursday.Among the four is Chandan Singh Lodhiyal, the 27-year-old who allegedly fired shots at the former Union minister’s house. A pistol has also been seized from him. The other three have been identified by police as Umesh Mehta, 30, Krishna Singh Bisht, 30, and Rajkumar Mehta, 29.Kumaon deputy inspector general Nilesh Anand Bharane said three teams were formed to identify and arrest the accused who pelted stones, fired shots and set a part of the house on fire.He said four persons have been arrested and the main accused, Rakesh Kapil, will also be arrested soon. “If the accused are not caught, a warrant will be issued against them,” the officer added.Bhowali circle officer Bhupinder Singh Dhoni said the four were arrested on a tip-off that they were trying to escape from the district. They were arrested on Ramgarh road by a team led by police station in-charge Ashok Kumar.“During the protest, Chandan Singh opened fire at the house. The other three have admitted to protesting and misbehaving with the caretaker of the house,” he added.The November 15 protest over the veteran politician’s book, Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times, in which he has allegedly compared Hindutva with terrorist groups Boko Haram and ISIS, soon got out of hand. According to police, when Sundar Ram, the caretaker of Khurshid’s house, protested the group vandalising the property, the miscreants abused and misbehaved with his wife Nandi Devi and daughter-in-law Anita Devi as well.The violence prompted a sharp counterattack from Salman Khurshid and the Congress who insisted that police arrest the perpetrators. When there was no progress, Congress spokesperson Deepak Balutia demanded that the attack be probed by a high court judge, claiming that the attackers were linked to the ruling BJP.BJP’s Nainital unit chief Pradeep Bisht rejected suggestions that BJP workers were involved in the attack. “There should be an inquiry into the matter as it was not BJP workers or leaders. It is not proper to hold BJP responsible for anything in this matter as arrest or investigation is the job of the police. Congress has a habit of levelling allegations,” he said.The Congress, however, steered clear of backing Khurshid on his comments in the book that provoked angry reactions from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and even the Congress ally in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena. Without referring to the book, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi did call for the need to differentiate between Hindutva and Hinduism, saying the former encourages violence and the latter preaches peace and harmony.Khurshid’s book ‘Sunrise over Ayodhya’, has sections wherein he compared Hindutva with terrorist groups Boko Haram and ISIS. In a chapter titled ‘The Saffron Sky’ in the newly launched book, Khurshid has written, “Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.”BJP leaders have accused Khurshid and the Congres of “weaving a web” against Hindus. “All this happens at the behest of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Earlier the term Hindu terrorism was invented in the Congress office,” party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said soon after the controversial comment in the book was reported last week.In his defence, Khurshid said:“I have not called these guys terrorists, I have just said they are similar in distorting religion. What Hindutva has done, it has pushed aside Sanatan Dharma and Hinduism and it has taken over a robust, aggressive position similar to Boko Haram and those other guys,” he said. After his house was vandalised, Salman Khurshid put out photos of the violence and asked,” Am I still wrong to say this cannot be Hinduism?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/4-men-who-vandalised-salman-khurshid-house-arrested-key-suspect-missing-police-101637240882127.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||BJP workers protest against lack of amenities in Kalyan, Dombivli||The BJP party workers staged a protest within Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation jurisdiction on Thursday claiming negligence of local authorities over the basic amenities required in the twin cities.Thousands of protestors gathered at various parts in the city and walked towards the civic office in protest. They raised their voices against the lack of cleanliness and poor water supply in parts of Dombivli.Taking potshots at the corruption in KDMC, MLA Ravindra Chavan said, “The negligent attitude towards the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli seems like the MVA’s aim is not mission Dombivli anymore, rather it is commission Dombivli. There are piles of garbage lying under foot over bridges at Dombivli station and no one seems to be concerned about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-workers-protest-against-lack-of-amenities-in-kalyan-dombivli-101637240226358.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Digha in Navi Mumbai to get sewage treatment plant in 2 years||Stinky nullahs in the slums of Digha are going to be a thing of the past. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to lay a 26km-long sewage line across all the 21 slums of Digha. NMMC is now done with the tendering of the project and the work at the site will start next week. They are spending around ₹24Cr on it.A senior officer from the engineering department of NMMC said, “Digha is one of the oldest areas in the city but these slums do not have any sewage system till date. This has been a major challenge in terms of keeping the slums clean. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has agreed to give us a plot for developing the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP). We will finish the entire project within two years.”Presently, NMMC has six STPs in CBD Belapur, Nerul, Sanpada, Vashi, Koparkhairane and Airoli. The total length of their sewage lines is around 361.20km and the sewage generated in their area is over 197.00 million litres per day (MLD).Sanjay Desai, city engineer of NMMC, said, “We have laid sewage lines in all nodal areas of the city. Apart from Digha, a few small pockets (mostly in slums of other areas) are still in need of sewage lines. We will cover the remaining areas very soon.”Dattratray Salvi, 39, an activist from Digha, said, “The population of Digha is now around one lakh. Despite being one of the richest civic bodies in the country, NMMC had been ignoring us for such a long time because we stay in the slums. For the overall development of any city, the authorities should also concentrate on the cleanliness and maintenance of its slums.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/digha-in-navi-mumbai-to-get-sewage-treatment-plant-in-2-years-101637237227475.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Pune International Film Festival to be held from December 2 to 9||PUNE The Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) organised by the Pune Film Foundation, will be held between December 2 and 9 this year, according to Dr Jabbar Patel, president of the Pune Film Foundation and the director of the festival.This is the 19th edition of the film festival, which was originally scheduled to take place in March 2021 though it was deferred due to Covid-19.During the festival, the film buffs will get an opportunity to watch over 150 curated national and international films. The standard operating procedure given by the state government with regards to the functioning of the cinema halls will be followed strictly, said organisers.The film festival, which also happens to be the official film festival of the Government of Maharashtra, would be held at three venues, which will include PVR Icon at Pavillion Mall on Senapati Bapat road, Inox at Camp and the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) auditorium on the Law College road.The online registration for the delegates who wish to be a part of PIFF will begin on November 18. The spot registration will begin at all three venues of the film festival from November 22. The per delegate registration fee for the film festival is ₹600.Earlier in March, organisers had to postpone the festival due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state and was held in an online format with a select few films. Now that the state government has given permission to open cinema halls, the film fest is being organised in theatres, said, organisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-international-film-festival-to-be-held-from-december-2-to-9-101637237162370.html
18-11-2021||Patna||Selection of top brass in Bihar varsities under scanner, minister calls raid ‘unfortunate’||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Thursday called the raid on the office of Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad, his staff and others in a corruption case unfortunate and added that it would earn a bad name for the stateWith the recent raid on the Magadh University VC’s office, the mechanism of selection of persons for the apex position in the state’s institutions of higher education is once again under the scanner.“The development is out of the domain of the education department and is a separate issue. But such an impression is not good for the government. The appointment and functioning of VCs should be transparent and only the deserving ones should be selected for the top position to bring about a much-needed turnaround in higher education. The process must be transparently followed. At the top, one must appear to be clean and transparent,” Choudhary said.On Thursday, the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar( FUTAB) said that the alleged corruption charges levelled against the MU VC, “bring shame to the entire teaching community and points out serious flaws in the process of their selection”. “Therefore, the Chancellor should ask all the VCs and those officials dealing with university finance, including examination, to immediately declare their assets,” said FUTAB working president KB Sinha. The association’s general secretary Sanjay Kumar Singh also echoed his views. Citing the usual practice of obtaining police verification reports before appointment to any high office, they said it seemed to have been given a go by. “The VCs wield more power than even a Cabinet Minister but unfortunately the power is not being used to improve academic and administrative environment,” they added.Social analyst Prof NK Choudhary said that both Raj Bhawan and the government would have to take the blame for the continuous slide in higher education and selection of VCs with dubious record.“Premises of the VC being raided was unheard of earlier. We are getting reports that huge amounts of cash has also been recovered. All this point to a deep malaise and the factors that have led to such a situation needs to be addressed forthwith. It means something is seriously amiss and the authorities must get to the bottom of the matter, as exposing one may not be enough. There may be more black sheep and their patrons within the system,” he added.A number of VCs from MU, JPU, BRABU, and Purnia University in the recent past have come under the scanner of the vigilance department. Recently, Prof. Jaiswal from PPU had to resign before completion of his tenure, while the VC of VKSU was sent on forced leave after a probe pointed to irregularities at their level. Several other VCs of NOU, TMBU and BNMU had to resign after a very short period of their selection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/selection-of-top-brass-in-bihar-varsities-under-scanner-minister-calls-raid-unfortunate-101637236921891.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Anti Corruption Bureau unit records 13 cases this year, highest in 6 years||The Anti-Corruption Bureau unit of Navi Mumbai records the highest cases in the last six years with 13 cases registered this year and 21 public servants held. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Jyoti Deshmukh, has credited the increase for the work of her team to make people understand and convince them to come forward with complaints. Various awareness programmes including approaching people at government offices and speaking to them about where they can go if anyone asks for a bribe has helped people to gain confidence to come ahead.“We have been conducting regular awareness programmes and also recently observed the Vigilance Awareness Week. During working days, our men visit government offices to speak to the common public and tell them about our department and our work. That helps people have confidence that their complaints will be heard. Due to these steps of approaching the public, we have had good response from them after they came to us with their complaints,” Deshmukh said.In a graft case, after receiving a complaint, ACB team first verifies the allegation and then lays a trap after deciding on a place to give the money. In disproportionate assets cases (DPA cases), after receiving an information, ACB seeks for permission for enquiry and after getting the permission, an enquiry is done to find if the government servant has more assets than his income and if so, a case is registered. A third type of case the ACB deals with is of misconduct wherein the officer is booked after finding to be indulging in any misconduct leading to fraud.Started in 2009, the Navi Mumbai ACB unit had highest traps in 2014 with 20 cases registered wherein 27 public servants were arrested. This year, there have been 13 cases in which 21 public servants were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-anti-corruption-bureau-unit-records-13-cases-this-year-highest-in-6-years-101637236321540.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Don’t arrest law student who stood in for lawyer, orders Allahabad high court||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of a law student who appeared before a Rae Bareli tribunal on behalf of his senior (under whom he was working as an intern) and sought adjournment in a case.The Presiding officer, Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal, Rae Bareli ordered a First Information Report (FIR) against law student Abhay Kumar Gupta on charges of impersonating a lawyer.Following the court order, police registered an FIR against the law student on October 6 at Kotwali police station, Rae Bareli, under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 171 (wearing garb used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code.The bench of justices Devendra Kumar Upadhyaya and Saroj Yadav on November 11 wasn’t entirely convinced.“It does not appear to be a case where the petitioner is said to have impersonated as a lawyer. From the order dated 4.10.2021 passed by the presiding officer, it appears that the petitioner was present in the tribunal in a civil dress without adorning robes,” the bench said in its November 11 order.“Prima facie, it appears to us that the petitioner over-zealously attempted to seek adjournment in a case where one of the parties appears to have been represented by the learned advocate under whom the petitioner was interning,” added the court. “Having regard to the overall facts and circumstances of the case, we hereby direct that till the next date of listing, the petitioner Abhay Kumar Gupta shall not be arrested pursuant to the impugned FIR no. 614 of 2021,” directed the court. The court, however, ordered the law student to cooperate with the investigation.During the proceedings, Gupta’s lawyer Anil Kumar Mishra pointed out that the order (passed on October 4) recorded that on being asked, the petitioner told the presiding officer that he was a law student and not a practising lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-arrest-law-student-who-stood-in-for-lawyer-orders-allahabad-high-court-101637236081728.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||UP tops in sexual offences against children: NCRB data||LUCKNOW Even as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was cracking down on sexual abuse and circulation of child pornography material across the country, Uttar Pradesh tops in the number of incidents related to sexual offences against children, according to the latest data of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB).The CBI on Tuesday had detained at least 10 people during raids at 77 locations across 14 states and Union territories, in a drive against on sexual abuse and circulation of child pornography material. Raids were carried out at 11 locations in various districts across UP also. As many as 23 FIRs were registered against 83 accused people, in the last two days, for allegedly posting and circulating child sexual exploitation material (CSEM) through various social media platforms.The NCRB data released in September this year stated that 47,221 cases of Prevention of Child from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were reported in 28 states and eight union territories across the country. Of these, UP reported the maximum – 6,898 cases of Pocso Act in 2020. UP is followed by Maharashtra with around 5,687 Pocso cases, Madhya Pradesh 5,648 cases, Tamil Nadu 3,090 and West Bengal 2,657 cases.The nationwide data revealed that 2,630 cases out of 6,898 cases reported in UP were related to Sections 4 and 6 of Pocso Act for unnatural sex and penetrative sex with children. The victims in as many as cases included 2,533 girls and 97 boys. Out of the total cases in UP, around 3,897 were related to sexual assault and aggravated sexual assault with children that included 3,881 girl victims and 16 boys. Moreover, around 68 cases were related to sodomy with 67 boys and one girl victim, as per the NCRB data.“This trend indicates that paedophiles and child pornography addicts are now dependent on web content, especially during Covid lockdown. This is an unsafe trend for children living around them,” said Umesh Gupta, a child rights activist based in Lucknow. He said, “Parents have to take extra care of their children during lockdown.” Gupta also urged the government to issue special guidelines highlighting this risk.Another Lucknow-based child rights activist and former member of Lucknow Child Welfare Committee Sangeeta Sharma said, “We have come across such reports and it is very alarming. Earlier, the UN body alerted the Indian government and police about such a trend but it kept rising. To curb this, we have to strengthen our child protection network of government and independent agencies,” she added.However, UP Police ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had earlier stated that the rate of crime against children in UP (8.1 per lakh population) was quite low as compared to the national rate of crime against children (10.6 per lakh population). He said the rate of crime against children related to sexual offences decreased in recent years and currently the state stood at 24th position among all states and union territories across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-tops-in-sexual-offences-against-children-ncrb-data-101637235901608.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Integrated NMMT bus terminus in Vashi likely to be ready by April 2023||The work on the integrated Vashi bus terminus is expected to be completed by April 2023. The project has been planned to make the loss-making Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) a self-sustaining body and will also have a commercial complex as well.The integrated bus terminus-cum-commercial complex has received all the requisite permissions and hence Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner (NMMC) commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, instructed that a time-bound plan be readied to ensure that the work is completed by April 2023 as planned.Spread over 10,373sqm, a 21-storey building is being constructed for the project. At the back of the building will be a bus terminus with 13 bus stops along with a four-storey parking facility. There will also be five electrical charging points. The 21-storey building will have shops with high ceilings and also space for offices. An area has also been reserved for a restaurant.Bangar instructed that there be no compromise at the material testing laboratory of the materials being used. He also asked for solar panels to be installed on the bus stop shed to save electricity.He added, “The project has been designed to make it a new landmark of the city to add to its beauty. Special attention has been paid to its architecture. I have asked for provisions to be made to enable the civic body to earn revenue through advertisements. The project is also vital to make NMMT a self-sustaining body. We will ensure that quality work is undertaken and it is completed in the designated time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/integrated-nmmt-bus-terminus-in-vashi-likely-to-be-ready-by-april-2023-101637235304639.html
18-11-2021||Jaipur||Ahead of 2023 Rajasthan polls, BJP to hold Chintan Shivir at district level||Ahead of the 2023 assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan will hold Chintan Shivir (brainstorming camps) at the district level to prepare a road map for the next two years. The BJP in September held a state-level Chintan Shivir to discuss the strategy for the elections. The meeting was chaired by BJP national general secretary BL Santosh.A BJP leader said the party has started preparations for the polls. After the state level Chintan Shivir, it was decided to hold discussions at the district level. Accordingly, the meetings will be held until November 30.He said the loss in the October 30 by-polls to two assembly seats was a major setback. “Now in these district meetings, issues will be discussed in presence of lawmakers and other senior leaders of the party. The agenda is to decide the road map for the next two years and bring the party back to power,” he said.Lawmakers Vasudev Devnani, Madan Dilawar, and Somkant Sharma will be in charge of the sessions, where the party’s position in each district, changes to be brought and others issues will be discussed. The BJP plans to publicise the Central government’s work and achievements.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje skipped the state-level camp in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ahead-of-2023-rajasthan-polls-bjp-to-hold-chintan-shivir-at-district-level-101637234583529.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Persons with criminal background can’t continue on State Police Complaints Authority’: Bombay HC||Observing that a person with criminal background cannot be allowed to continue on the State Police Complaints Authority (SPCA), the Bombay high court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by Rajkumar Dhakane, who has been removed from Maharashtra SPCA for having three criminal cases registered against him. “In a post such as this, it is reasonable to expect — even demand — the highest standards of integrity and lawfulness,” said the division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar while dismissing Dhakane’s petition. Dhakane was appointed as “an eminent member of civil society” on the Authority on July 14, 2020. In August 2020, the home department called for a report from the Director-General of Police (DGP) after newspaper reports highlighted that there were criminal cases registered against Dhakane, a Pune resident. Eventually, he was removed from the Authority on 5 July 2021, after the DGP submitted a report that disclosed that three criminal cases were registered against him in Pune city and in one of the cases registered by Koregaon Park police station, he was booked for attempted murder. Dhakane moved the high court on July 8, contending that he had disclosed the offences registered against him when he applied for the appointment, pursuant to an advertisement issued by the state government and the government satisfied itself about his suitability for the appointment. Besides, he argued that the post is based on tenure– for a fixed period of three years. The argument, however, failed to impress upon the high court. “The very nature of the post makes it difficult for us to accept this argument,” said the bench. “The members of the authority are required to look into complaints about excesses by police officers above a certain rank. It seems to us wholly incongruous that member entrusted to look into alleged police excesses himself has numerous complaints against him,” it added. “We do not see how a person can claim to be entitled to continue in a post such as this and simultaneously say that the state government must wholly ignore all criminal complaints that have been previously made against him,” said the bench. “This is nothing but saying that the complaints against the petitioner should effectively be ignored and that he should nonetheless be considered “a person of eminence”,” it observed.The HC also rejected Dhakane’s argument that there was no provision enabling the state government to remove a member before the end of the tenure. In this regard, the court accepted the state government’s stand that the power to appoint includes the power to suspend or dismiss for a valid reason. Headed by a retired high court judge, the authority comprises a retired police officer of the rank of inspector-general or above, a government officer retired as secretary or commissioner, a person of eminence from the civil society and serving police officer of the rank of director-general of police. It is entrusted to look into complaints against deputy superintendents of police or above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/persons-with-criminal-background-can-t-continue-on-state-police-complaints-authority-bombay-hc-101637234283149.html
18-11-2021||Bangalore||Widespread rains predicted in Karnataka; IMD issues orange alert for Bengaluru||An orange alert was issued for Bengaluru city on Thursday as the India Meteorological Department predicted widespread rainfall for Karnataka over the next four days. A similar warning is also effective for the interior southern parts of the state, according to the latest weather bulletin.The IMD issued yellow alerts for some districts of coastal Karnataka and north-interior parts for the next 24 hours.According to the weather department, the prediction of heavy rains is due to a network of cyclonic circulations and a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.There are three types of alerts -- Red, Orange and yellow -- that are issued by the IMD after analysing the weather conditions. The red alert is issued when there is an expectation of torrential rains of over 20cm in 24 hours. Orange alert denotes very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rain.A yellow alert means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.Bengaluru has received unseasonal rains in the months of October and November that has resulted in a few incidents of building collapse.The incessant rains have left much of the city in a pile of slushy mess, throwing the daily out of gear. Streets were also waterlogged, while motorists and pedestrians struggled to make their way through the downpour.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) continues to make assurances of fixing the city’s infrastructure woes even though there appears nothing on the ground that inspires confidence for the over 12 million residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/widespread-rains-predicted-in-karnataka-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-bengaluru-101637233121488.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Taste of Life:Recipes for courage and determination||Raosaheb Sadashiv Ballal Gowandey, who was an officer in the Inaam Commission, employed in his house a Brahmin widow as a cook. Her name was Kashibai.Born in a village near Ratnagiri, she had been married off to a thirty-two-year-old man in a neighbouring village when she was five years old. She was sent to live with her husband immediately.Five years later, widowhood was forced upon Kashibai. Her husband had died of snakebite.Her mother-in-law made her take off all her jewellery, and her head was shaved. She was now considered “inauspicious” for the household, and the society. She was not supposed to step out of the house or peak out of a window. She was not to be seen by others.She was made to cook for the entire household. She was allowed to cook because she had gotten rid of her hair. But she could not eat what she cooked. She had to face the wall while having lunch comprising a bowl of buttermilk and puffed rice. She ate only once a day.After her in-laws passed away in quick succession, her brother-in-law brought her to Pune where he worked as a priest. Since he considered her as a liability, he found a job for her.Almost all households then employed men as cooks. These cooks would take bath, wear a special silk cloth called “sovale,” and then enter the kitchen. Those men took the rituals associated with cooking very seriously and did not hesitate in reprimanding the lady of the house in case she made an error.Liberal and progressive men like Gowandey after the 1850s started employing widows as cooks. The widows had to be tonsured, of course. Widows who did not shave their heads were not allowed to enter the kitchen and cook.According to a letter Mahatma Jyotiba Phule wrote to the British Government in response to the discussion surrounding “infant marriages and forced widowhood” in 1884, Kashibai was well-behaved and beautiful. She was a chaste woman. She served for several months in Gowandey’s house.In the neighbourhood lived a Brahmin priest. He cast his gaze on Kashibai. She at first resisted his advances. The priest persisted. Six months later, Kashibai was pregnant.Afterwards, at the persuasion of her paramour, she tried several poisonous drugs to abort the foetus, but all her attempts failed.Kashibai gave birth to a healthy son and for the sake of her so-called “disgrace,” she slit the throat of the infant with a knife. The corpse was thrown into the well behind Gowandey’s house.Two days later she was arrested by the police on suspicion, tried before the Session Court in Pune, and was sentenced to a life sentence at Andaman.The incident took place in 1863. It was the first time a woman had been sentenced to such severe punishment.This incident upset and saddened Savitribai and Jyotiba Phule. They immediately started a shelter home for such Brahmin widows in their own house at Ganj Peth, Pune. While everybody else kept discussing the trial and demanded stricter rules for “disgraceful widows”, Savitribai and Jyotiba came forward to take care of the exploited women.The shelter was advertised in Pune and at places of pilgrimage, especially Pandharpur and Alandi. By 1884, thirty-five Brahmin widows had come to the shelter from various places. Jyotiba in his will noted with pride that Savitribai looked after those women as if they were her daughters. She would herself help the widows deliver babies and take care of them till they were ready to fend for themselves.The only way for widows to fend for themselves in those times was to cook for others. The women would go door to door asking if the house needed a cook. Rumours would swirl around these widows. Men, and sometimes women, would spread lies that these women ate meat, drank liquor, and lured men into having sex with them.Women were often reluctant to employ the widows because they feared that their husbands would go astray and maintain a physical relationship with the widowed cooks.To dodge such rumour-mongering, and to assure their employers, the widows had to be extra diligent about observing all the “traditions.”Seven years ago, I met ninety-year-old Shantabai Patwardhan in a decrepit wada in Kasba peth. Patwardhan and her husband worked as cooks all their lives. Her mother, Lakshmibai, was a cook too.Lakshmibai’s is a story of stigma, sorrow, courage, and above all determination to change her life.Ten years after her marriage, her husband died leaving her with no source of income and two infants to care for. The death of her husband left Lakshmibai dazed. She was told that life without her husband was no life at all. But she already knew that.When she came into the grasp of widowhood, she did not know she would get trapped by the chains of stigma. She was forced to stay indoors. She was forbidden to cook because she had refused to tonsure.The year was 1907. She was seventeen years old then.In the first month after her husband passed away, she realised that her children were starving. The women of the house would make her elder daughter go hungry.This was being done to make her shave her head and help the women in the kitchen.Lakshmibai did not want to accept the new lifestyle enforced upon her dutifully. Moreover, she did not want her children to starve, all because she would not get her head shaved.She stole her mother-in-law’s bangles one night and ran away to Pune from their village near Satara with her children.Lakshmibai was taunted when she stepped out to look for a job in Pune. She would go around the lanes of the city with her two children asking for work. But nobody wanted to employ a widow who had long, bouncing hair.During those days, men and women who wanted jobs as cooks, priests, and water-bearers would gather around Tulshibaug every morning. Widows would, of course, sit inconspicuously under a tree. They took the utmost care to make their presence go unnoticed, even though they needed to be employed. Wealthy men looking for cooks and priests would visit Tulshibaug and took men and women with them.Lakshmibai too made it a practice to be present at Tulshibaug daily. But other widows did not like her being there. Some of them did not like her breaking away from the tradition by not cutting her hair. Others feared men would ostracise the entire group because of her. One morning, a group of men and women shooed her away and threatened her with consequences if she set foot near Tulshibaug again.Lakshmibai did not want her daughters to go hungry. She shaved her head.Lakshmibai raised her two daughters alone. She worked as a cook all her life. Her younger daughter became a teacher.Lakshmibai and Kashibai were among many Hindus, so-called “upper-caste” widows of Maharashtra who were victims of cruel fate and stigmas. Lakshmibai was successful in building a life for herself. Kashibai could not.The widows cooked and made it easier for future generations of women to step out and earn their living. But for that, they had to shave their heads. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food historian. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted on chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-recipes-for-courage-and-determination-101637233201482.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Assembly panel asks Facebook to submit records on complaints on 2020 riots||A Delhi Assembly committee asked Facebook India on Thursday to furnish records of users' reports (complaints) on the content posted on the platform one month prior and two months after the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020.Hearing a representation by Shivnath Thukral, the public policy director of Facebook India (Meta Platforms), in the Assembly, chairman of the Peace and Harmony Committee Raghav Chadha asked for the records.He also quizzed the Facebook official regarding the organisational structure, the complaints redressal mechanism, community standards and hate speech definitions with respect to the social media giant.Thukral said Facebook is not a law enforcement agency but it has a mechanism to co-operate with such agencies whenever required."When things happen in the real world, they reflect on our platform as well. We do not want hate on our platform. There are some bad actors that need to be worked on," he said during the hearing.Thukral said Facebook has 40,000 people working on content management, including 15,000 dealing with content moderation. Any content found against the community standards followed by the platform is taken down immediately, he added.Summonses were issued by the committee to Facebook India to put forward its views on the critical role of social media platforms in curbing the spread of false, provocative and malicious messages that can incite violence and disharmony.The panel has so far heard seven witnesses while examining the role of social media platforms in connection with the northeast Delhi riots that claimed over 50 lives and left hundreds of people injured in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-panel-asks-facebook-to-submit-records-on-complaints-on-2020-riots-101637232138879.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar says those who sent Anil Deshmukh to jail will pay the price||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led union government, saying those who played a role in getting former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh sent to jail will pay the price for having done so.Pawar made the remarks at a rally in Nagpur on Wednesday evening, insisting that Deshmukh was innocent.Anil Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate over money laundering charges and is currently in judicial custody.Pawar also questioned the whereabouts of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh who had made multiple allegations against Deshmukh, following which the Maharashtra home minister resigned.Also Read: ‘Disclose whereabouts’: Supreme Court tells Param Bir Singh“We have seen the case of Anil babu (Deshmukh). What was his crime? You all know it well. One day, Param Bir Singh came to meet me and said he complained to the CM against Deshmukh. When I asked him what it was about, he said Deshmukh had given him instructions to extort money. Then I asked him if he carried out the instructions. He said he didn’t. I am unable to understand what Deshmukh’s crime was if his so-called instructions were not carried out in the first place,” Sharad Pawar argued while addressing the rally in Nagpur.Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had ordered him to extort ₹100 crore from businesses and other establishments. The allegations were made soon after he was transferred as Mumbai police commissioner following the mysterious discovery explosives near Mumbai’s Antilia and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.On Wednesday, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate court declared Param Bir Singh a proclaimed offender in connection with the extortion case.“You (BJP) are spreading propaganda against a person (Deshmukh). He (Deshmukh) came to meet me and said a complaint has been made by the police commissioner. Until the probe was completed, he didn’t want to stay in position and stepped down as home minister. We will not keep quiet. You (BJP) have sent him (Deshmukh) behind bars and you will be made to pay the price of every day and every hour,” former union minister Sharad Pawar said without naming the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-says-those-who-sent-anil-deshmukh-to-jail-will-pay-the-price-101637232241929.html
18-11-2021||Bhopal||New rule: No liquor for the unvaccinated in this district of Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh’s Khandwa district excise office on Thursday announced a new rule where it mandated that liquor will be sold only to those who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Alcohol will be sold at the liquor stores to only those people who have received both doses of COVID vaccine: Khandwa District Excise Officer #MadhyaPradesh pic.twitter.com/CoCqiITgsNThe order states that the 74 liquor stores across Khandwa have been intimated regarding this new rule which will require the customers to get fully inoculated in order to be eligible for buying liquor.The order pointed out that the measure was taken in a bid to boost vaccination amongst citizens as the state continues its mega vaccination campaign.Madhya Pradesh minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary earlier in the day said that the state vaccinated half of the eligible population with both the doses of vaccine against coronavirus and that the state is aiming to fully vaccinate the eligible population within December 25.Madhya Pradesh, which has an estimated eligible population of 5.59 crore, vaccinated at least 27,543,593 beneficiaries with both doses of vaccine. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan earlier thanked the state’s health ministry and healthcare workers upon achieving this feat. He also expressed hope that with cooperation from all, the state will fully vaccinate its eligible population within December 25.Madhya Pradesh was among the states which saw a record number of daily cases, large numbers of hospitalisations and deaths during the second wave of Covid-19 between April and July earlier this year, with some hospitals citing lack of medical oxygen to treat patients. The state recorded 792,986 cases so far with the death toll reaching 10,525. The state reported 5 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and zero deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/new-rule-no-liquor-for-the-unvaccinated-in-this-district-of-madhya-pradesh-101637230870356.html
18-11-2021||Bhopal||‘Amazon officials will face action if they don’t cooperate’: MP govt on drug peddling case||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday warned of action against Amazon’s managing director and the chief executive officer if they do not cooperate in the case related to the alleged sale of drugs through the e-commerce website.“This is a very serious matter that Amazon has been used for transportation of ganja (marijuana). We called the company officials but they are not cooperating. If they will not cooperate, we will arrest them and we will not allow such activity. So, we have requested the company officials to cooperate in the investigation or we will take action against them,” said state home minister Narottam Mishra.Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind last week said they busted a gang of drug peddlers, who would get marijuana delivered via Amazon from Visakhpatnam and pay in cash.Mishra said a company registered as a seller with Amazon supplied the marijuana at 12 places. “If Amazon officials were found guilty, we will take strict action against them.” He added three persons have been arrested in the case for the transportation of marijuana from Visakhapatnam. Mishra said marijuana was packed and passed off as stevia leaves. “There are no rules and guidelines regarding online shopping sites. Even arms can be supplied through e-commerce websites.”Mishra said the Madhya Pradesh government will lay down rules for online shopping sites to ensure the platforms cannot be misused.Amazon’s advocate Sumant Narang refused to comment on the issue, saying the matter was under investigation. Mishra also attacked comedian Vir Das for his monologue in the US for allegedly insulting India. Mishra said they will not allow Das to perform in Madhya Pradesh. “If he apologises for his actions, we will rethink it.” He added there are “some clowns” who try to malign India’s image. “...Kapil Sibal and other Congressmen supported him. It is Rahul Gandhi who defamed our country abroad and former chief minister Kamal Nath who is calling great India as defamed India.”A ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader has filed a complaint against Das in New Delhi. Das uploaded a video of his monologue on YouTube and faced immediate backlash. In the six-minute video, he refers to the most talked about issues facing India including the battle against Covid-19, incidents of rapes, the crackdown on comedians, and farmer protests.In a tweet, Das said his intention was to remind the country that despite its issues, it is great.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/amazon-officials-will-face-action-if-they-don-t-cooperate-mp-govt-on-drugs-peddling-case-101637231764618.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress loses another Hindu face, Anish Sidana joins Shiromani Akali Dal||In a setback to the ruling Congress in Punjab, Anish Sidana, the party unit’s intellectual cell chairman, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Chandigarh on Thursday. Also read: Punjab CM Channi leads 15-member jatha to Pakistan via Kartarpur CorridorSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal inducted him into the party and announced that Sidana, who is a senior leader from the Hindu community, will be his political adviser for urban affairs. With the assembly elections barely two months away, Sukhbir asked Sidana to focus on the SAD campaign in the urban areas. Sidana’s exit comes after another senior Hindu leader Raman Behl left the Congress and joined the Aam Aadmi Party on November 9. The Congress is facing the challenge of retaining its Hindu leaders. Sidana, a member of the Kandi Area Development Board (KADB) till a few months ago, belongs to Jalalabad and had been voicing his concerns regarding the lack of adequate representation in the state Congress. On October 31, he even wrote an open letter to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, citing indiscipline in the party. In reply to a query, Sukhbir clarified that Bathinda Lok Sabha MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal will not contest the 2022 assembly elections and a decision on five-time Punjab chief minister and SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal would be taken at the party forum. On the Congress demand to make the special task force (STF) report in the drugs case public since it has been submitted in a sealed cover to the Punjab and Haryana high court, Sukhbir said that the matter was sub judice and he would not want to comment on it. “But what stopped the Congress government from acting against drug traffickers during its four-and-a-half-year term? No one has been arrested so far. The Congress government is only politicising the matter by targeting us (SAD). They could have released the report. I challenge them to cite a single piece of evidence against Akali leaders instead of attempting to frame them in false charges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-loses-another-hindu-face-anish-sidana-joins-shiromani-akali-dal-101637229121125.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||As winter session approaches, Anurag Thakur rues disruptions in Parliament||Weeks before the winter session of Parliament begins, union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur lashed out over instances of disruption in Parliament, saying “papers can be torn in the streets, [but] Parliament is for debate”. In an indirect reference to incidents of disruption in Parliament’s last session that eventually turned out to be a near-washout, Anurag Thakur said “When people are low on data and substance, they dance on the table and tear [up] papers.”“Papers can be torn up on the streets, Parliament is for debate. We have to improve the quality of debate. We can take a cue from these sessions and improve our debate [in Parliament,” he said at the ongoing legislative presiding officers’ conference in Shimla. The winter session of Parliament will start on November 29 and the Opposition is gearing up to protest over multiple isssues, such as Pegasus spyware, Rafale deal, farm laws, and a recent ordinance to extend the terms of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chiefs. Also Read: Presiding officers favour suspension of lawmakers who storm into well of HouseThakur also suggested that parliamentary committees and assemblies pick up 75 topics for discussion to mark the 75th year of India’s independence and celebrate a “legislative week” in all the states to make people aware of how policies and laws impact their lives. “Let us collate, curate all important materials from the history of our legislative journey and inform people. Can we celebrate a ‘legislative week’ in all the states? People should also be made aware of how laws and policies help and influence their lives,” the minister said. Anurag Thakur narrated how Aadhaar and Goods and Services Tax (GST) helped the public. He also called for debate on future legislation with an eye on long-term requirements. “What can be the policy or law on environment in the context of the pollution?” he said, citing an example.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-winter-session-approaches-anurag-thakur-rues-disruptions-in-parliament-101637227804539.html
18-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan lawmaker booked for allegedly raping 34-year-old woman||Pratap Lal Bheel, 55, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Gogunda in Rajasthan’s Udaipur, has been booked for allegedly raping a 34-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage. Another woman accused Bheel of the same nine months earlier.The fresh case against Bheel has been lodged at Udaipur’s Ambamat police station. The probe into it has been handed over to CID-CB as Bheel is a member of the assembly, said police.In her complaint, the 34-year-old said she met Bheel two years back for employment. She alleged Bheel assured him a good job and asked for favours. The woman alleged when she threatened she will commit suicide, Bheel pacified her on the pretext of marrying her but allegedly continued raping her.Bheel refused to comment saying he was unaware of any complaint against him. In February, another woman made similar allegations against him and he was booked. Bheel then also said he was unaware of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-lawmaker-booked-for-rape-101637225761586.html
18-11-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: 50% of MP's eligible population fully vaccinated, says health minister||Fifty per cent of the population eligible for vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Madhya Pradesh has been fully inoculated, said health minister Prabhuram Choudhary.He further said the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government is aiming at vaccinating all eligible citizens of the state by December 25.On November 10, the state government started a special vaccination drive every Wednesday to ensure 100 per cent coverage of the eligible population by year-end.Also Read| Only fully vaccinated people to get ration from next year: Madhya Pradesh govtAccording to a PTI report, Dr Choudhary said over 1.68 million were vaccinated till 9 pm on Wednesday and the numbers will surge as statistics from remote areas and those collected through offline mode were yet to be added.The health minister also said that of the nearly 56 million eligible population in Madhya Pradesh, 2,75,43,593 beneficiaries have been inoculated with both doses while the first dose has been administered to 5,04,56,163 beneficiaries.Dr Choudhary appreciated the efforts of the health department, administrative officials and employees, school, college students and social and religious organisations for cooperating with the state government in the inoculation drive, PTI further reported.He said that if this cooperation goes on during other vaccination campaigns, the state will administer both doses to the entire eligible population.Chouhan also lauded the people on the achievement of fully vaccinating 50 per cent of the state's eligible population and urged remaining beneficiaries to take the jab.Intending to eliminate vaccine hesitancy, the Madhya Pradesh government announced this month that people under the National Food Security Act will not get subsidised ration unless they show proof of vaccination against Covid-19.Also Read| Madhya Pradesh lifts all Covid-19 related curbs with immediate effectTill now, Madhya Pradesh has reported nearly 7,93,000 cases, 10,525 deaths and 7,82,384 recoveries. At present, there are 77 active cases. On Wednesday, the state reported five new cases, five recoveries and zero deaths.The state government has removed all virus-related restrictions with the chief minister stating that the step was taken as the pandemic situation is under complete control.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-50-of-mp-s-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-says-health-minister-101637220942922.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kartarpur Corridor reopening: Punjab CM visits Darbar Sahib in Pak, seeks on-arrival permission for pilgrims||On the eve of 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his cabinet colleagues, with family, visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur in Pakistan through the Kartarpur Corridor on Thursday. The 4.7km visa-free stretch was reopened for Indian pilgrims on Wednesday.The Channi-led delegation comprised 30-odd members, including officers of the Punjab government and family. The ministers who accompanied the CM were Manpreet Singh Badal, Vijay Inder Singla and Rana Gurjit Singh and two MLAs — Harpartap Singh (Ajnala) and Barinderjit Singh Pahra (Gurdaspur). The CM has sought that the process of getting permission for pilgrims desirous to visit the last resting place of the Sikhism’s founder be simplified. “A procedure of on-arrival permission should be followed,” he said.Also read: Punjab BJP jatha leaves for Pakistan via Kartarpur CorridorKartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit chief executive officer Muhammad Latif, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee office-bearers and Gujranwala commissioner greeted the Indian guests who arrived at the gurdwara. Latif said 100 Indian pilgrims visited the historic gurdwara on Thursday.Describing the reopening the corridor as a historic moment, Channi said: “It’s a joyous occasion. The long-pending ‘ardaas (prayer)’ of the Sikh ‘sangat (community)’ has been fulfilled.” The CM added he was fortunate enough to be part of the sangat paying homage since the demand of the ‘Khule Darshan-Didar’ of Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, was fulfilled after seven decades. “Our Gurus showed the path of humility, unity, peace and welfare. The corridor will play a pivotal role in ensuring this,” he added.On returning, he said, “It is the need of the hour that both the national governments of India and Pakistan should make concerted efforts for simplifying the process to enable pilgrims for obtaining permission to pay reverence at this holy shrine.”Channi announced that the state government will soon start free buses from across the state to enable pilgrims to pay obeisance at the revered gurdwara. He said these buses will ply till the corridor for facilitating pilgrims, having permission to visit Sri Kartarpur Sahib.Batting for the opening of cross-border trade through Punjab’s borders, the CM added that India and Pakistan should deliberate on this. “Besides giving an impetus to economic activity, it will help in improving people-to-people contact between both the countries,” he added.‘THANK MODI, KHAN’Channi also thanked the people of Pakistan and the administration for showering love and affection on him and his family during the visit. He also expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan for reopening the corridor.Singla said, “The Union government has not given permission to all ministers at once. Some ministers will get permission over the next few days. Some of them will be going on Friday.” Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was not part of the Channi-led ‘jatha’ (group) which went to pay obeisance at the gurdwara. Sidhu’s media adviser Surinder Dalla on Wednesday night had said that the PCC chief would go on November 20. Since reopening of the corridor, there is festival-like atmosphere in the border town of Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district that was linked with the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan through the Kartarpur Corridor in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-leads-15-member-jatha-to-pakistan-via-kartarpur-corridor-101637223660966.html
18-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP begins Jan Swaraj Yatra to mobilise support for panchayat polls||Four teams, led by senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will commence their state-wide tour of the party from Thursday to meet the grassroots level workers and mobilize support for the upcoming panchayat polls in Karnataka. The Jan Swaraj Yatra begins from today under four teams led by senior party leaders BS Yediyurappa, KS Eshwarappa, Jagadish Shettar and Nalin Kumar Kateel across the state starting in different regions. “Today I will go to Koppala. We will start the Jan Swaraj Yatra from there. There are four teams. One under our leader BS Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar, one under our party president (Kateel) and another under Eshwarappa. They will travel across the state and meet elected representatives and request all voters to help our party candidates win. One team will visit two districts per day,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday in Bengaluru. The statements come weeks before the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature. Those whose terms are expiring in January include BJP minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and Congress leader of the house SR Patil among others. The BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) are hopeful to win as many seats as possible to retain some control over the upper house. The BJP, which has 32 seats currently, is hoping to mobilize support to get a majority in the upper house to allow easy passage of contentious bills without having to depend on their rivals for support. The Congress has 29 members and the JD(S) has 12 members currently. Several members of the opposition, especially from the JD(S), are trying to defect to the BJP to secure a seat in the upcoming polls.“Other than a couple of districts, we have sent a list of the probables up (to Delhi). We are hopeful of the list getting approved by this evening. If not, by tomorrow morning it will be done,” Bommai said. The state-wide tour also comes at a time when the BJP is trying to thwart growing accusations that its senior leaders are involved in the raging Bitcoin scandal. Bommai also faces the people after the party lost the bypolls in Hanagal in his home district of Haveri, which is speculated to be a backlash from the Panchamasali sub-sect and his own partymen plotting against the former. The BJP had not approved the statewide tour of Yediyurappa and instead forced him to be part of this yatra which, people aware of the developments said, was to keep the 78-year-old under control. The grassroots have also expressed their reservations about the possibility that new entrants may be given a chance in the upcoming MLC polls by overlooking core-party workers which is likely to adversely impact other elections like zilla and taluka panchayat that are expected to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-begins-jan-swaraj-yatra-to-mobilize-support-for-upcoming-panchayat-polls-101637223422591.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal rolls out six-point action plan to clean up Yamuna river by 2025||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a six-point action plan to clean up Yamuna river by February 2025. The mission includes improving the Capital’s sewage treatment capacity and network, cleaning up major drains, de-silting storm water drains, and taking firm action over the release of untreated waste. Addressing reporters, Kejriwal pointed to his promise during the 2020 assembly elections to clean up the Yamuna within five years and to bathe in it to highlight the success of his mission. “Yamuna is close to everyone in Delhi. It is the lifeline of Delhi. Everyone wants to see a clean Yamuna. It took 70 years to dirty the Yamuna. All the dirt of 70 years cannot be cleaned in two days. But we have now prepared a six-point action plan to clean the Yamuna by February 2025. We have started work on these points on a war footing,” Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said. The first “action point” is to increase the city’s sewage treatment capacity and improving the quality of the waste treatment process. At present, Kejriwal said, New Delhi can treat only about 600MGD (million gallons per day) of sewage as a result of which a lot of sewage is left untreated and released directly into the Yamuna. Also Read: Untreated effluent from Haryana contaminating Yamuna waters: Report“The city actually needs sewage treatment plants (STPs) with a total capacity of 800-850MGD. We are doing three things on this front. One, we’re setting up new sewage treatment plants such as the coronation plant and the ones being built at Okhla, Kondli, Rithala and other places. Two, we’re increasing the capacity of the existing plants. Three, the existing plants are operating with old technology because of which even treated water is dirty. We will upgrade the technology to ensure treated water that is released is of 10/10 purity,” the CM said. The mission’s “second action” point is to clean up the city’s major drains. Kejriwal said the Najafgarh, Badshahpur, supplementary and Ghazipur drains will be cleaned with a new technology without diverting its waste to plants. The remaining drains, he said, will be diverted to the city’s STPs. Arvind Kejriwal also pointed to the plan to properly treat industrial waste and take action against set-ups that flout norms, which is the mission’s third “action point”. “A lot of industries show on paper that their waste is released only after proper treatment. But the reality is that industrial waste treatment is practically not happening. All effluent treatment plants that are not operating properly will be repaired and upgraded. The industries that fail to send their waste to effluent treatment plants will be shut down,” the Delhi chief minister said. He also spoke about the need to improve the community toilets at various slums and slum-like clusters across New Delhi, the fourth “action point” of the Delhi government project. “At present, the waste from all community toilets in ‘jhuggies’ (slums) is released into storm water drains, as a result of which their sewage is released directly into the [Yamuna] river. This waste will be diverted and linked to sewage lines, so that it’s treated properly,” Kejriwal said. The fifth “action point” is to increase household sewage connections across the city. “Many people still haven’t taken sewer connections in the city. Many households release their sewage directly into the local ‘nullahs’ (large drains). We have decided that the Delhi government will install sewer connections in people’s houses. They won’t have to apply for it or seek permission. We will charge a nominal rate, which will be adjusted in their water bills,” Kejriwal said. The sixth “action point” of the Yamuna clean-up mission is to de-silt and rehabilitate the city’s entire sewer network. “I am personally monitoring this project. We have set specific milestones for each action point and I will ensure that deadlines aren’t missed,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-rolls-out-six-point-action-plan-to-clean-up-yamuna-river-by-2025-101637223180903.html
18-11-2021||Kolkata||Efforts being made to defame CBI, ED: BJP on privilege motion in Narada case||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dilip Ghosh on Thursday hit out at the West Bengal government for moving a privilege motion in the Assembly against two senior officers of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).On Wednesday, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA Tapas Roy moved the privilege motion against CBI deputy superintendent of police Satyendra Singh and ED’s assistant director Rathin Biswas.The TMC accused the two officers of breaching the privilege of the House by not seeking the consent of the speaker before filing a chargesheet and arresting three of its leaders in the Narada sting operation case.Also Read| Bengal assembly moves privilege motion against CBI, ED officers in Narada caseGhosh said efforts were being made to defame institutions like the CBI and the ED, which have the faith of the entire country. “The government is making all efforts to stop scandals,” Ghosh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Wednesday, leader of opposition in Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari said the Mamata Banerjee-led state government was scared of the central agencies because of its involvement in almost all scandals."The privilege motion has been passed with a voice vote in the West Bengal Assembly and sent to the privilege committee where it will see strong opposition by BJP members. The TMC is scared of the CBI and ED because they are involved in almost all the scams," Adhikari, a former Bengal minister and protege-turned-rival of  Banerjee, said.Also Read| Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra challenges CBI, ED Ordinances in top courtThe scam dates back to 2014 when a web portal Narada news carried out a sting operation wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in exchange of favours.On May 17, the CBI arrested three TMC legislators and former Kolkata mayor Sovon Chatterjee on May 17, hours after filing its charge sheet.They were later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/efforts-being-made-to-defame-cbi-ed-bjp-on-privilege-motion-in-narada-case-101637212553580.html
18-11-2021||Patna||Bihar, Jharkhand joint STF team nabs ex-BSF jawan, recovers over 900 cartridges||A joint team of Bihar and Jharkhand Special Task Force arrested a former Border Security Force (BSF) jawan and recovered 919 live cartridges of Insas, SLR and 9mm pistol from him on Wednesday, officials said. The STF personnel arrested the retired jawan-cum-arms smuggler identified as Arun Kumar Singh from Shahpur village under Sonpur police station of Saran district. During questioning, the accused failed to respond to the queries of the police, officials said. The STF took the accused under arrest formally after producing him at the Sonpur police station. Further investigation into the matter will be conducted. The accused has not revealed the purpose behind storing the live cartridges, said the police, adding that he is giving vague answers to most of the questions.According to a senior STF official, a thorough probe is underway to ascertain whether the accused has any links with the banned extremist outfit CPI (Maoist) or gangster. “We cannot rule out anything till we are thorough in our investigation,” said the official. Earlier on Tuesday, a CRPF jawan of 182 battalion, Avinash Kumar alias Chunnu Sharma, a resident of Gaya district in Bihar and currently posted at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir was arrested with two of his accomplices by an ATS team of Jharkhand and recovered 250 live cartridges of Insas rifle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-jharkhand-joint-stf-team-nabs-ex-bsf-jawan-recovers-over-900-cartridges-101637217182659.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Movement of vehicles slow at Kalindi Kunj border, tweets Noida traffic||The traffic on Noida-Kalindi Kunj border is moving slowly because of high number of vehicles, the Noida Traffic Police said on Twitter on Wednesday. It added that that the traffic police personnel are trying to normalise the situation at the border.यातायात अलर्टनॉएडा-दिल्ली कालिंदी कुंज बॉर्डर पर यातायात का दबाव अधिक होने से यातायात धीमी गति से चल रहा है।यातायात पुलिसकर्मी यातायात सामान्य बनाने में लगे हैं।यातायात हेल्पलाइन न0- 9971009001@CP_Noida @dcptrafficnoida @Uppolice @uptrafficpolice @noidapolice pic.twitter.com/UkrDhGgLK5The traffic police also issued a helpline number 9971009001 to help people and give them information about traffic movement.This comes a day after the Noida Traffic Police issued an advisory, prohibiting entry of heavy and medium category of goods vehicles into Delhi, and suggesting alternative routes for those moving elsewhere via the Peripheral Expressway.The freight vehicles were advised to take U-turns at Chilla red light, Gaushala roundabout (Kalindi Kunj route) and New Ashok Nagar border. "Heavy and medium goods vehicles going from Noida to Jhandupura towards Delhi will be able to take a U-turn from Jhandupura border to reach their destination via the Peripheral route," the advisory further said.It was issued in the wake of high pollution levels in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Schools and colleges were shut down till further orders and construction activities stopped except in some cases in the national capital.In a subsequent tweet, the Noida Traffic Police said that movement of vehicle is normal at the Chilla border.The traffic police in Noida has asked commuters to use alternative routes to avoid inconvenience and sought cooperation of all drivers to ensure implementation of the orders related to controlling pollution in the NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/movement-of-vehicles-slow-at-kalindi-kunj-border-tweets-noida-traffic-101637215842965.html
18-11-2021||Mumbai||Five accused get bail in ED’s money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh||A special court has granted interim bail to five people booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Special judge M G Deshpande granted the bail to Deshmukh’s chartered accountants Vinod Hassani and Vishal Khatwani and Surendra Kumar Jain, Virendra Kumar Jain, Kishore Dewani as they appeared before the court on Wednesday. They were taken into custody and later granted interim bail on a personal bond of ₹3 lakh each. The court has posted their regular bail pleas for hearing on December 1.Also Read: ED summons Mufti’s brother for questioning in money laundering case todayED registered the money laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11 on the basis of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s First Information Report (FIR) of April 21. The FIR was filed on the basis of allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In a letter written to the chief minister on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh directed certain Mumbai police officers, including dismissed officer Sachin Vaze, to collect an amount of ₹100 crore monthly from Mumbai’s hotel and bars. Deshmukh has denied the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-accused-get-bail-in-ed-s-money-laundering-case-against-anil-deshmukh-101637212920148.html
18-11-2021||Patna||BJP ministers insist on making liquor law more holistic, CM remains firm||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar might have insisted on stricter implementation of the prohibition act, but ministers of the lead coalition partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), kept reminding him about the need to revisit the liquor law to help the state march towards de-addiction. This came during the high-level meeting held in Patna on Tuesday. Citing the recent report of the national family health survey (NFHS), state health minister Mangal Pandey urged the CM to relook into the law in view of the survey report that stated that liquor consumption in dry Bihar was more than Maharastra. “We shall definitely look into the veracity of the report during the review meeting on prohibition, as we relied on the NFHS data for immunisation and other health parameters,” Pandey told the CM. Earlier, state BJP chief and the Member of Parliament (MP) from West Champaran Sanjay Jaiswal questioned the rationale behind carrying out the prohibition law that failed to check the flow of illicit liquor and asked for a review of the act in the entirety. Road construction minister and BJP MLA from Bankipore Nitin Nabin drew the chief minister’s attention towards the growing prevalence of drugs among the young generation due to the administrative focus on checking on the liquor flow. “As the police kept their crackdown on liquor, drug Mafiosi seem to have got enough scope to entice the youth towards drugs which is deadlier than the alcohol,” Nabin informed Kumar in presence of other cabinet colleagues. Industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain supported Nabin’s contention and said that drugs had emerged as a major source of addiction in Bhagalpur and other parts of the state. “The government shall not take other sources of addiction for granted for the sake of rigorous enforcement of liquor law,” said Hussain. A senior BJP leader said that they always insisted on a logical way to encourage people to shun the habit of liquor, instead of terrorising them by law. “We always advocated for the Gujarat model of liquor ban and work for total deaddiction,” he added. Pandey, when asked for his comments on his suggestion, said that he urged the CM to first examine the veracity of the NFHS survey and act accordingly if it’s true. “Sometimes, surveys are also found incorrect. I also congratulated the CM on completion of the one year of the new government and its efforts to deal with the crises like the Covid pandemic and floods,” said the health minister. Nabin said he raised the issue of the growing prevalence of the drug and urged him to work out modalities for cracking down on the drugs cartel as well, which is crippling the young generation. “The role of the station house officers (SHOs) should also be reviewed with respect to the recovery of drugs, besides liquor, in their jurisdictions,” said the minister. The latest NFHS report for 2019-20 stipulates that about 14% of men above 15 years consume liquor in urban areas, while 15.8% of people consume liquor in rural areas. In Maharashtra, about 13% urban and 14.7% rural population are in habit of taking alcohol. Similarly, 0.5% women and 0.4% women in rural Bihar take liquor as compared to 0.3% urban women and 0.5% rural women. People of Jammu and Kashmir are the least consumers of alcohol, while the states of Goa, Sikkim and Telangana have the highest percentage of liquor consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-ministers-insist-on-making-liquor-law-more-holistic-cm-remains-firm-on-nochange-101637210341231.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality remains ‘very poor’; mercury dips to 10.5°C||New Delhi’s air quality improved only marginally on Thursday to remain in the “very poor” category for the second day in a row, while weathermen predicted shallow fog in the morning with the mercury showing a lowest temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius and a highest of 27 degrees Celsius predicted for later in the day.Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) for the Capital at 8am was 344. Wednesday’s AQI reading was 375.On the weather front, New Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, while the maximum temperature recorded was 27.5 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature is expected to dip to 10 degrees Celsius on Friday after which it is expected to rise up to 12 degrees Celsius during the weekend, according to the Indian Meteorological Department’s weekly forecast. While the winter is likely to be colder than normal, New Delhi hasn’t yet recorded any western disturbances this month, which is unusual. Experts say that there has not been any active western disturbance over the city after October 24.The minimum temperatures are expected to remain in the same range until a weather disturbance is recorded.On Wednesday, the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said the AQI was likely to improve slightly but remain “very poor” over the next two days. Also Read: Stubble fires go past 2020 tally, rise four-fold since November 1“The AQI today (Wednesday) indicates very poor category and is likely to improve but remain the same for the next two days as transport-level winds are coming from the eastern direction, preventing the intrusion of pollutants from the upwind region,” it said. “Local surface winds are low… resulting in poor ventilation of near-surface pollutants. From November 20, surface winds are likely to be strong, resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality. The effective farm fire count is 2,643 and its contribution to New Delhi’s PM2.5 today (Wednesday) is 6%,” SAFAR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-very-poor-mercury-dips-to-105c-101637208479916.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP Punjab MLAs to visit Kartarpur Sahib on November 19||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs from Punjab will visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur in Pakistan on Friday on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti.According to the party, all 11 MLAs will visit Kartarpur Sahib along with Punjab AAP chief and party MP Bhagwant Mann.In a major decision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government decided to re-open the Kartarpur corridor from November 17. It was shut in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Guru Nanak Jayanti, also known as Guru Nanak Gurpurab, celebrates the birth of the first Sikh Guru and is considered one of the most sacred festivals among Sikhs. The day is celebrated on the full moon day of the Kartik month as per the Hindu calendar. It is also marked as Kartik Poornima. This year the day falls on November 19.The visa-free 4.7-kilometre long corridor joins the Indian border to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan. It became operational in 2019.More than 20 months after the Kartarpur corridor was shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a jatha of Sikh pilgrims from India crossed over to Pakistan on Wednesday ahead of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.Pakistan had issued around 3000 visas to Indian Sikh pilgrims on the eve of the 552nd Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev from November 17-26."They [the jatha] will visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Sri Panja Sahib, Dera Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib and Gurdwara Sacha Sauda," said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi."Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi has issued around 3000 visas to Indian Sikh Yatrees to participate in the 552nd Birth Anniversary celebrations of Baba Guru Nanak in Pakistan from 17-26 November 2021. During their stay in Pakistan, the Sikh Yatrees would pay obeisance at different Gurdwaras including Gurdwara Janam Asthan in Nankana Sahib and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur," read a Pakistan High Commission release.The move came keeping in view the significance of the upcoming occasion of Guru Nanak Gurpurab, and the sentiments associated with the religious festival.Earlier in this year, Pakistan has denied permission to Sikh pilgrims from India on two occasions in June this year-- one on the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev Ji and the second on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Ji, the MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Visas of the Sikh pilgrims have been issued under the Pakistan-India Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974, which provides for the visit of Sikh pilgrims from India to Pakistan for the birthday celebrations of Baba Guru Nanak.The 1974 Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines between India and Pakistan is a set of principles that was implemented while keeping in view the sentiments and devotion of the various communities in the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-punjab-mlas-to-visit-kartarpur-sahib-on-november-19-101637204814215.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh deputy CM Maurya says SP chief should change his name to Akhilesh Ali Jinnah||Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah again entered the political discourse of Uttar Pradesh as deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya suggested Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav change his name to ‘Akhilesh Ali Jinnah’. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been on the offensive over Akhilesh Yadav’s remark on Jinnah during a public meeting in Hardoi earlier this month. Yadav used Jinnah’s name along with Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters, saying they helped India get freedom and never backed away from the struggle."The politics of appeasement of the Samajwadi Party has brought Jinnah. That's why I tell Akhilesh Yadav that he should change his name to Akhilesh Ali Jinnah. And he should change the name of his party to Jinnahwadi Party," Maurya said on Wednesday.As the campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls intensifies, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s deputy warned the Samajwadi Party that Jinnah would not win them elections. He also targeted the former UP chief minister over the party’s link with gangster-turned-politicians."Neither (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah nor Atiq Ahmed or (Mukhtar) Ansari could help him win in this election. The people of UP have chosen lotus (BJP). The advantage is reaching the people of the state with honesty. There were mafia and goons here, those have ended and the people are in peace," he said.Referring to Samajwadi Party’s electoral defeats in the last two Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly polls in UP, Maurya claimed that the party is in panic and is going to lose the fourth time.“We are aware of the ground reality as we have an organisation that is spread to the booth. But the Samajwadi party knows too, they have goons, criminals and mafia," he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-deputy-cm-says-samajwadi-chief-should-change-his-name-to-akhilesh-ali-jinnah-101637202852913.html
18-11-2021||Bangalore||Eye on panchayat polls, Karnataka BJP to launch ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ today||With an aim to win the upcoming panchayat polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will launch a four-day long ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ in Karnataka on Thursday."We are launching 'Jan Swaraj Yatra' for four days from November 18. Four teams will travel across the four corners of the state for four days with a focus on winning the Taluk and district Panchayat elections," BJP Karnataka spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said during a press conference last week.Karnik said the main aim of the yatra is to strengthen the party at the booth level. The panchayat polls are expected to take place later this year, or in early 2022.Ministers in the state government, BJP state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, national secretaries of the party Arun Singh, B L Santhosh and C T Ravi, and other state-level office bearers will take part in the event.Meanwhile, the BJP is also focusing on winning the MLC elections for 25 seats on December 10 and two seats in June next year. The other top contenders for the MLC elections are the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) (JDS).“Term of office of 25 sitting members of Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies is going to expire on 5 January 2022,” according to a notification issued by the Election Commission.The members of the legislative council whose term expires next year include BJP leader and state minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and Congress leader and leader of opposition in the council SR Patil.Last week, the BJP sent a list of its probable candidates for the MLC elections to its parliamentary board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/eye-on-panchayat-polls-karnataka-bjp-to-launch-jan-swaraj-yatra-today-101637198159869.html
18-11-2021||Dehradun||Nepal again rakes up border row, stakes claim to 3 U’khand villages||Nepal has once again raked up the border issue in Pithoragarh district by claiming three villages in the Kalapani area , raking up an issue that reared its head last year when Kathmandu published a new map showing India’s Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limipiyadhura as part of its territory.The move comes in the context of the country’s ongoing census.Nebin Lal Shresth, director general of Central Bureau of Statistics of Nepal which is responsible for the population census, said while speaking to a leading Nepalese daily Kathamnadu Post on November 10 : “The three villages are under Nepal’s territory but has a presence of Indian armed forces. Hence, there has to be an appropriate solution at the government level so that our team can go there for the population census.”According to an officer of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) which mans the Indian side of the international border Nepal has no claim on the villages. “There is no question of allowing Nepalese authorities to go to the three villages for their census as they are Indian villages.”“They fall in Indian territory and the residents there are Indian citizens. How can the Nepalese authorities carry a census in our area?,” added this officer who asked not to be named.Mahendra Singh, Commandant SSB under whose command the area falls, said that the agency has , however, “given Nepalese authorities access to two of their border villages for the census.”“The two villages named Changru and Tinkar fall in their territory only but the way to them goes through Indian territory. We have given the Nepalese officials permission to go to their villages from our territory as per norms and regulations. We have also strictly told them that they should only go to those areas for which permission has been granted,” said Singh.“SSB is always on alert to stop any unauthorised entry from Nepal side to India while working in coordination with the counterparts in Nepal- Armed Police Force,” he added.RESPONSE FROM MEARelations between India and Nepal soured last year after India opened a road connecting Dharchula to Lipulekh to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar. Both fall in Indian territory.Following the development, Nepal’s parliament on June 18 passed a constitutional amendment under which it unanimously voted to endorse a new political map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nepal-again-rakes-up-border-row-stakes-claim-to-3-u-khand-villages-101637196210839.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Noida Police issues traffic advisory as Delhi bans entry of goods vehicles||The Noida Traffic Police on Wednesday issued an advisory, prohibiting entry of heavy and medium category of goods vehicles into Delhi, and suggesting alternative routes for those moving elsewhere via the Peripheral Expressway.The advisory comes in the wake of high pollution levels in Delhi and the NCR, as schools and colleges were shut down till further orders and construction activities stopped except in some cases in the national capital.The Noida Traffic Police said the general public is informed that in compliance with instructions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and adjoining areas, heavy and medium goods vehicles (except those carrying essential items) issued till November 21 shall be strictly prohibited from entering Delhi.Diversions of heavy and medium goods vehicles from Chilla, DND, Kalindi Kunj, Ashok Nagar and Jhandupura borders to other places via Delhi have been changed."Heavy and medium goods vehicles going elsewhere via Delhi from the Yamuna Expressway will be able to go to their destination via the Peripheral Expressway from Zero Point through Pari Chowk," the traffic police said."Heavy and medium goods vehicles going from Noida via the DND border through Delhi will be able to reach their destination via the Peripheral Expressway by taking a U-turn from the DND toll plaza," it stated.According to the advisory, all such vehicles going from Noida to Delhi via the Chilla border will be able to go to their destination via the Peripheral route by taking a U-turn at the Chilla red light.All such freight vehicles going from Noida to Delhi via Kalindi Kunj will be able to go to their destination via the Peripheral Expressway by taking a U-turn from the Gaushala roundabout at the end of the Mahamaya flyover, it stated."Heavy and medium cargo vehicles going from Noida to New Ashok Nagar towards Delhi will be able to go to their destination by the Peripheral Expressway by taking a U-turn from the New Ashok Nagar border," the advisory stated."Heavy and medium goods vehicles going from Noida to Jhandupura towards Delhi will be able to take a U-turn from Jhandupura border to reach their destination via the Peripheral route," it added.The traffic police asked commuters to use alternative routes to avoid inconvenience and sought cooperation of all drivers to ensure implementation of the orders related to controlling pollution in the NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-issues-traffic-advisory-as-delhi-bans-entry-of-goods-vehicles-101637193223935.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Dug-up roads, litter an eyesore in Ward 10||First impressions can be misleading and this ward is a case in point. While the well-maintained parks and gardens will leave you awestruck at first, the horticulture waste strewn around road berms, dug-up roads at every few metres and the remnants of the weekly vegetable mandi leave much to be desired. Even outside the traffic police lines in Sector 29, old and rusty barricades and signage can be seen carelessly dumped.Considered to be a stronghold of Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, ward 10 of Chandigarh comprises Sector 27, 28 and 29. Sector 29 was added to the ward after recent delimitation, while Sector 30, which was earlier part of this ward, has now become a part of Ward 18. This time, the ward has been reserved for women.Apart from sanitation concerns, residents here are also irked by the monkey and dog menace, absence of cycle tracks in some parts and the fact that the civic body failed to carry out proper fogging during the peak of dengue season. Grouse aplentyPardeep Kumar Aggarwal, president, Sector-28 residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “Earlier we used to dump horticulture waste at Sahaj Safai Kendra (SSK) but now this has been stopped, due to which, residents dump it on road berms. Proper and regular lifting of this waste is needed. There is also a problem of defacement, by means of posters, going unchecked.”He added, “The stray dog menace has aggravated so much here that we have now asked residents to carry a stick for their safety while going out for walks. We have had at least eight dog-bite cases here.” Sudesh, a homemaker staying in Sector 28, says, “A major problem is the unplanned digging being carried out by various firms to lay underground cables. The unattended, open trenches pose a risk to residents, especially children and senior citizens.”Harish Chander Chabbra, secretary, Sector-29 RWA, has a long list of civic issues. “The Apni Mandi that is held in Sector 29 leaves behind too much litter, which is never properly cleaned. Earlier, the market had taps from where residents and shopkeepers used to drink water. But these were removed, causing inconvenience.” Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla said, “I am in touch with the residents of my wards through different WhatsApp groups in which issues and problems are shared. I have been taking up all the issues in a timely manner, but the unplanned digging by private telecom companies still remains unchecked. We had even suggested that MC, while laying the roads, should put a pipe that could be used to lay cables by any agency but so far it has not been taken up.” He added, “Monkey and stray dog menace also remains unchecked despite our best efforts. The lights for service lanes are not being approved either by the MC or administration.” Know your ward Localities: Sector 27, Sector 28 and Sector 29, Chandigarh. Voters 34,000 voters Reserved for women (general) Key issues •Unplanned digging for laying underground cables •Monkey and dog menace •No streetlights on back-lanes •Demand for cycle track between Sector 27 D and Sector 19•Horticulture waste accumulating on road bermsLitter left behind after the weekly mandi in Sector 29 Local voices “The gym equipment and swings installed in several parks are in need of repairs. MC should carry out regular maintenance works.”- Babita, private firm employee, resident of Sector 27The litter left behind in the vegetable mandi leads to foul smell in and around the area. The ground should be cleaned regularly and can be used for other purposes when not used for mandi. - Rohit Sharma, theatre artiste and resident of Sector 29“The sector is largely clean and with elections round the corner, all pending works such as repair of streetlights and roads are also being done.”- Abhishek Indora, theatre artiste, residing in Sector 28“Though this year we had so many dengue cases, fogging was not carried out properly here. Also, whenever pruning of trees is carried out, the horticultural waste is carelessly discarded on roadsides.- Anoop Singh Verma, a government employee staying in Sector 29||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dug-up-roads-litter-an-eyesore-in-ward-10-101637191738808.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala MC house disrupted over voting rights to nominated councillors||The third house meeting of the Ambala municipal corporation held on Wednesday ended after several members of the non-BJP parties objected to the claims of newly sworn-in nominated councillor Sandeep Sachdeva of having voting rights.Sachdeva along with Suresh Sahota, both belonging to the BJP, were administered oath by mayor Shakti Rani Sharma after 14 pending agendas of the last meeting were discussed. The objections were raised after the house decided to discuss new agendas kept forward and BJP members showed disagreement on the issues asking for voting, including the nominated members.On this, a senior member of the Haryana Janchetna Party (HJCP), Rajesh Mehta and his associates contradicted which was seconded by Congress councillor Mithun Verma. Later, the mayor intervened and decided to have a legal opinion.Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said, “To get more clarity on the voting rights, we will write to the department of urban local bodies, which will be informed to the house accordingly.”Experts believe that the decision will be crucial as both mayor’s HJCP and the ruling BJP have eight councillors each in the 20-member house, besides two from the Congress and one from the HDF (one other member is accused in a murder case and remains absconding).Action against JEHJCP councillor Shardul Singh raised the issue of discrepancies in the construction work in his ward and alleged that junior engineer (JE) Vishal presented wrong facts before the house.On this, the mayor recommended action against the official. Khadgata said a show-cause notice will be issued to the JE and action will be taken accordingly.The highlights of the discussion on pending agendas of the second meeting remained increasing the number of safai karamchari and menace created by stray animals about which the mayor said sweeping in wards will be improved and the tender of the company engaged in catching animals has been extended after it expired recently. The commissioner said, “The house proceedings went smoothly. Other than previous agendas, a few post-facto sanctions, including the nomination of land to gaushala on five acres of land, were passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-mc-house-disrupted-over-voting-rights-to-nominated-councillors-101637189578749.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Sector 68 City Park cries for attention||Spread in around 11 acres, the City Park in Sector 68 is crying for attention. Residents alleged that the authorities concerned had failed to upkeep its maintenance. The park was developed around 20 years ago and is catering to the residents of Sectors 68, 67, and even Phase-9. The park is maintained by the municipal corporation of Mohali.During the visit to the park, it was found that the fountain installed in the park is not functional for the past several months, heaps of garbage lying, equipment of the open-air gym broken, swings and other joyrides found rusted and stray dogs and cattle were found roaming in the park.Jasbir Singh, a resident of Sector 68, said, “I am a regular visitor to this park, but since the past several years, its condition has gone from bad to worse. Even the footpaths are broken.” Another resident Sunny said, “I have lodged several complaints to the authorities concerned, but to no avail. People even fear to come to the park due to stray dogs.”Former councillor of the area Bobby Kamboj said, “During my tenure, the park was well maintained, but ever since it came under the MC, it is not maintained properly.”Superintending engineer, MC, Sanjay Kanwar did not respond to the repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-sector-68-city-park-cries-for-attention-101637189401630.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||World COPD Day: Important to focus on lung health, says Padma Shri Dr Digambar Behera||If a patient suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) gets infected with Covid-19, the chance of mortality increases. Even in light of Covid, COPD remains a leading cause of death and now it is more important to focus on lung health. This was stated by Padma Shri recipient Dr Digambar Behera during a panel discussion on Wednesday. The discussion was organised by Zorgers Healthcare to raise awareness on World COPD Day. Dr Behera said people should keep their lungs healthy by avoiding cigarettes, air pollution or occupational exposures and by staying active either through regular physical activity or pulmonary rehabilitation. While speaking on the occasion, Dr Vishal Sharma and Dr Sunny Virdi, pulmonologists, said, “The main risk factors for COPD are tobacco smoking, atmospheric air pollution as well as indoor pollution due to smoke from biomass used for cooking. However, lifestyle changes like eating healthy, exercise and vaccination help cope with limitations created by the disease.” “Smoking is suicide by instalments. There is a huge risk among COPD patients to get severe Covid infections as smoking leads to weakened immunity,” said another pulmonologist, Dr Suresh K Goyal. Varun Gupta, founder, Zorgers, said, “Around 10-15% of our patients are COPD and these patients are in a high degree of need for non-invasive ventilation equipment likes Bipap, CPAP or Portable ventilators and many of them do require oxygenation as well where oxygen cylinder or concentrator is also required to keep them comfortable at home under the supervision of a nurse and a treating pulmonologist.” Pulmonologists Dr Zafar Ahmed Iqbal and Dr Rahul Katyal were also present during the panel discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/world-copd-day-important-to-focus-on-lung-health-says-padma-shri-dr-digambar-behera-101637189400002.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU students urge university to hold online exams||With Panjab University (PU) planning to conduct the upcoming semester exams in physical mode, the students have urged the university to hold them online as the teaching for the current semester was conducted in the online mode.A day after the university announced that they were preparing to hold the semester exam in the offline mode, members of the Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar) on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the university urging them to hold the exams in online mode.The students said they stand on online exams for online classes, offline exams for offline classes. The teaching for the current semester was held online at PU due to the pandemic and semester exams are scheduled to start in December.The members of the PSU-Lalkaar also suggested that the university should either conduct at least 30 days of offline teaching before the exams if they wanted to take offline exams.Students associated with the Student Organisation of India (SOI) also wrote to the university on Monday regarding the mode of upcoming semester exams. They requested the university to hold the semester exams in online mode. “With teaching conducted online, conducting offline exams appears to be unfair to the students who have been taught in online mode for the last one year,” they wrote.“Students are saying that classes for this semester were held in online mode and no physical classes were held on campus. So, exams should also be held in online mode. The university must conduct offline classes in the upcoming semester so that exams can be held offline as well,” said Manjodh Singh Padda of the SOI.An official of the university said, “We will deliberate on the matter.”Meanwhile, PU on Wednesday announced that the practical examination for the postgraduate classes will be held from December 20 to 24, instead of December 21 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-students-urge-university-to-hold-online-exams-101637189338311.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to organise ‘lucky draw’ for people getting vaccinated between Nov 18 and 30||In a unique initiative to boost the anti-Covid vaccination drive, the Chandigarh health department will organise a ‘lucky draw’ for people getting vaccinated in Chandigarh between November 18 to November 30, officials said on Wednesday.The department will select at least 200 winners in the first week of December and give them gift hampers or coupons worth ₹1,000 each. The number of winners may be increased, depending on the sponsor organisations.According to the latest electoral list and central government’s set target, around 8.4 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. Though the UT has already achieved the 100% target for vaccinating people with the first dose, the department has not yet completed its target of fully vaccinating people.As on Wednesday, 9,33,184 (110%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 5,91,580 (70%) are fully vaccinated.More than 75,000 people, who have taken their first dose of Covid-19 vaccines from healthcare facilities in Chandigarh, have not yet turned up to take their second jab even after the completion of the recommended vaccine time gap, as per the data from UT health department.“The first dose of vaccination has already been given to 110% of the targeted population which indicates that many of the residents of other states or UTs have also got their vaccination done in Chandigarh. Each person, whose second dose is overdue, is being contacted and a special drive has been undertaken to vaccinate them at the earliest,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.He added, “So far, Trident Group, Kandhari Beverages Private Limited and Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh, have offered to provide gift hampers or coupons to the winners of the lucky draw.”The UT health secretary also said that any organization, association or society, that wants to contribute at least 25 gift hampers or coupons of ₹1,000 each, may contact Rakesh Popli, director hospitality, or Rajiv Tiwari, director public relations, UT administration, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-organise-lucky-draw-for-people-getting-vaccinated-between-nov-18-and-30-101637188138182.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU’s iconic Student Centre to reopen from Dec 1||The iconic Student Centre of Panjab University (PU), which remained closed after the pandemic broke-out, last year in March, will reopen from December 1.The university has approved its reopening from December 1 and will be announced soon, sources at the university said on Wednesday. The eateries at the Student Centre, which is one of the main attractions on the campus, will be allowed to reopen. However, some riders are expected, too, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.PU is in the process of phased reopening of the campus and so far many departments have reopened for postgraduate students. The step to reopen the Student Centre is said to bring normalcy on the campus as it is the epicentre of student activities.PU’s Student Centre is considered the heart of the social activities of students. Its building houses an old Coffee House, recreation room, offices of the students’ council and the dean-students’ welfare and a couple of eateries. “It is a welcome decision not only for students but also for all those whose livelihood depends on it,” said Nikhil Narmeta of the NSUI.President of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), Mritunjay Kumar said, “The Student Centre is an epicentre of campus life in PU and its reopening will help in bringing normalcy on the campus. If the university is considering reopening it, that is a welcome step. Since AC Joshi library is open, students need a place where they can interact with each other.”The reopening of the famous South India Coffee house at PU’s Student Centre is still unclear. In October last year, the South India Coffee House was auctioned for ₹1,03,000 per month for a period of five years. It had announced its closure in June 2019. The Coffee House, which was opened in 1975, had announced its closure due to a decrease in footfall and consequent losses.Meanwhile, the university is in the process of further reopening the campus for students. A meeting of the panel in this regard is expected in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-s-iconic-student-centre-to-reopen-from-dec-1-101637187839830.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police seize 80,000 banned tramadol tablets, 75 gm heroin||Police arrested five persons and recovered 80,000 banned tramadol tablets, 75 gram heroin and three vehicles from their possession.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said following a tip-off, a team led by SP (rural) Manpreet Singh and Bikramjit Singh Brar, PPS, DSP, Kharar-2, Mullanpur, raided a garage, Gill Medihome, in Kurali, owned by one Hardayal Singh of Kurali. After 31,000 tramadol tablets were found at the garage, police recovered 24,000 more tablets from an Accent car, owned by Gaurav Kumar, an associate of Hardayal. In another case, Mohali police confiscated 29,900 tramdol tablets from two persons coming in a car from Ropar. The driver, identified as Gurpreet Singh of Kurali, was arrested.In the third case, the Sadar Kurali police caught a man with 75gm heroin. He was coming in an Indigo car when he was nabbed at a special naka set up at Singhpura Bypass. The driver Santpreet Singh of Kurali has been arrested. All accused have been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-seize-80-000-banned-tramadol-tablets-75-gm-heroin-101637185918041.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: High court to take up plea challenging reservation notification today||The Punjab and Haryana high court will on Thursday take up the pleas challenging the October 19 notification on reservation of wards for the upcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation elections.There are two pleas on the issue, one filed by Shiv Kumar, a resident of Sector-42 on October 25 and the second filed on November 17 by a Dhanas resident, Prem Pal. The plea was taken up for hearing on Wednesday but deferred to Thursday as the petitioners were claiming that the Chandigarh can notify elections anytime now and petition would become infructuous.The pleas argue that the notification on reservation of wards should be issued after excluding the population of colonies that have been demolished or partly demolished. They also sought a fresh notification on reservation of seven wards, which have been reserved for scheduled caste category. The plea stated that though Chandigarh had in December 2020 duly emphasised that the latest population data, based on electoral rolls, would be taken into account, the same was not done while determining the selection of wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-high-court-to-take-up-plea-challenging-reservation-notification-today-101637185497952.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||46 more infected with dengue in Chandigarh tricity area||Forty-six fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Wednesday with Mohali reporting 23 cases, Chandigarh 21 and Panchkula 2. No death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on the day.On Tuesday, tricity had recorded 40 cases. After a peak in October, the cases seem to be ebbing out with a dip in temperature. Mohali’s dengue count this year now stands at 3,713, while the death count is 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,294 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 832, with one death so far this year.9 fresh Covid infections in tricityThe daily Covid-19 infection tally continues to fluctuate in tricity with nine fresh infections on Wednesday against the three cases on Tuesday. As many as eight cases were reported from Mohali while one got infected in Chandigarh. Panchkula, however, didn’t report any fresh infection on for the second consecutive day.So far in November, Mohali has reported two Covid fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 90, with 50 patients still being infected in Mohali, 29 in Chandigarh, and 11 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/46-more-infected-with-dengue-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101637184477779.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pakhowal Road ROB, RUB project: Damaged sewer line repaired||Ludhiana: Over three weeks after a damaged sewer line turned the under-construction Pakhowal railway under bridge (RUB) project site into a cesspool, the municipal corporation (MC) has finally repaired the damage and construction work is expected to restart in a day or so.Municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also inspected the site on Wednesday morning and asked officials to expedite the project and ensure completion by December 31. The project has been moving at snail’s pace and the damaged sewer line was yet another setback. The under-construction railway under bridge (RUB) at the Pakhowal road railway crossing - from Pakhowal canal bridge towards Sarabha Nagar - had turned into a pool of filthy sewer water after the chamber of a main sewer line (72-inches wide) was damaged during the construction process in the last week of October.The main line caters to the dense population residing in Dholewal area, Dugri, Gill Road, and Partap Chowk among other areas. The MC has blamed the railway department for damaging the line. An official, requesting anonymity, said, it took some time to carry out repairs as it was the main line and sewer lines in many areas would have choked if it had been completely closed for repairs. The flow of sewer waste was controlled for repairing the line.Sabharwal said that both - the MC contractor and the railway department officials have been directed to expedite the construction work and the project should be completed by December 31.Under this project two RUBs and one ROB is being constructed at Pakhowal road railway crossings under the smart city mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakhowal-road-rob-rub-project-damaged-sewer-line-repaired-101637184237738.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Duping case: Another FIR registered against Ram Lal Chaudhary||Another case of cheating has been registered against property dealer-cum-financier, Ram Lal Chaudhary, 64, who was arrested last week for duping a Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore. The fresh complaint was filed by Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 6, Panchkula, who is a retired officer from revenue department in Haryana. Kumar said he was involved in misappropriation of government funds while posted in different locations in Haryana. In this regard, a complaint was filed by the vigilance for misappropriation of funds to the tune of ₹250 crore. As per the complaint, Naresh had paid ₹6 crore to Ram Lal Chaudhary after an assurance from the accused that the FIR would not be registered against him. He had approached accused Ramlal through his friends Satish Yadav and Bhoop Singh. Naresh had paid the money by selling land in the name of his mother and taking money from friends. Naresh alleged that he was assured that Chaudhary liaisons with politicians and officials and thus could help. However, his name appeared in FIR following which he approached for the accused for a refund but the latter refused. A case under Section 420 (cheating) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 34 police station. The case would be investigated by the SIT already probing the cheating case against Chaudhary in which he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/duping-case-another-fir-registered-against-ram-lal-chaudhary-101637183997672.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man beaten to death in Ludhiana, one held||A Majri village resident has been arrested for beating a man to death in Mullanpur Dakha on Sunday . The victim, Dhanna Singh,35, was killed over suspicion of him stealing a mobile phone. The accused, Gurdeep Singh Saggu, was arrested from the spot and booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Dhanna succumbed to his injuries.PAU Class-11 student goes missing
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cop dies after falling off 25th floor of housing society in Balongi||A 42-year-old cop, who was working as reader of DIG (STF) died after falling off the 25th floor of ATS towers in Mohali. The cop identified as Ajay Sharma, who was a resident of Kharar, had gone to ATS towers for some work.Rajpal Gill, station house officer of Balongi, said, Sharma slipped and fell off the 25th floor of the building. The incident took place at around 3.30 am on Wednesday and the security guard informed the police around 7 am. “We have kept the body in the mortuary and his post-mortem will be conducted on Thursday at the civil hospital in Phase-6,” said Gill.He further said, “We are trying to find out if there is any foul play in his death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-dies-after-falling-off-25th-floor-of-housing-society-in-balongi-101637183277612.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: IELTS-qualified brides ditching spouses due to contract marriages, says expert||With men increasingly using IELTS-qualified brides as a crutch to fulfil their dream of settling abroad, many cases of fraud and cheating have been filed against the women and their families after they snapped ties with their husbands on reaching foreign lands, citing “compatibility issues.” Panjab University sociology professor Dr Rajesh Gill, while speaking at a webinar at the Punjab Agricultural University, says the contractual nature of such unions is responsible for the dissolution of these “NRI marriages.” Blaming men for “clinging on women’s shoulders” after failing to clear the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam, which is mandatory for securing a visa, Gill said, “The men hunt for an intelligent woman with a good IELTS score. They invest money on her, hoping that she will realise their ‘foreign dream’. Later, when the bride faces compatibility issues and snaps ties, they cry fraud and blame the bride for not honouring the sanctity of marriage. However, the fact is that the whole foundation of contractual marriage is based on lies.” “Instead of blaming the girl, this system of contract marriages needs to be abolished and the men should be made competent enough to clear any qualifying exam so that they do not have to use women as a crutch to fulfil their dreams,” Gill said, adding that around 3,000 Punjabi grooms, who had funded their wives education in a foreign country, but far from getting a spouse visa had been deserted by their wives, have collectively suffered a loss of around ₹100 crore. PAU professor Preeti Sharma said that the seminar on ‘NRI Marriages: Issues, Challenges and the Way Forward” had been held in collaboration with the National Commission of Women, New Delhi, to review sensitive, crucial concerns pertaining to NRI marriages in Punjab and to forward solutions.Dr Manoj Kumar, associate Professor, Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Chandigarh, said one should properly vet the groom before getting married and avoid illegal migration through the course of marriages. “Governmental as well as societal reforms are required to avoid such circumstances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ielts-qualified-brides-ditching-spouses-due-to-contract-marriages-says-expert-101637182497643.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets district crime cell to probe heinous crimes||In view of the increasing crimes in the Chandigarh, UT police on Wednesday constituted a district crime cell, a specialised investigation wing for dealing with all heinous crimes. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devinder Sharma and inspector Narinder Patial, posted as in-charge of the cell, will be at the helm. The cell would be directly reporting to Chandigarh senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Apart from investigating heinous crimes, the cell is also expected to keep a tab on the activities of gangsters and their sympathisers, for early detection of criminal activities. The move comes after a one-member police reform commission, headed by former IPS officer KB Singh, in a report submitted on August 29, had recommended separation of investigation and law-and-order wings of Chandigarh Police for better efficiency. The report stated that when the same personnel are assigned investigation and law-and-order duties, it has a cascading effect on the probe and leads to delays. It may be mentioned that Chandigarh Police already have two investigation wings — the crime branch in Sector 11 and operation cell in Sector 26. The crime branch deals with heinous crimes reported in the city but now with the district crime cell will deal with such cases. Will operate from Sector 24, Chandigarh About 40 police personnel from different units and wings have been already shortlisted to work in the cell. DSP Devinder Sharma, who was posted as DSP security and inspector Patial, who was the station house officer of Sector 31, were transferred and posted here on Wednesday.The staff will be equipped with latest technology and will also work on developing human intelligence network. “The district crime cell will operate from the building housing police post, Sector 24,” confirmed a senior official, not willing to be named. City to have two more crime subdivisions For better policing, Chandigarh will also have two more crime subdivisions in addition to the three existing ones --- central, east and south. Now, the city will be divided into central subdivision that comprises police stations of Sectors 17, 3, 11 and Sarangpur, which will be under DSP Charanjit Singh; East subdivision comprising police stations of Sector 26, 19 and Industrial Area that will be headed by DSP Uday Pal Singh; south subdivision comprising police stations of Sector 34, 49 and 31, under ASP Shruti Arora. The new subdivisions -- South West subdivision comprises police stations of Sector 36, 39 and Maloya, under ASP Mridul while the North East subdivision will comprise police stations of Manimajra, IT Park and Mauli Jagran and be under DSP Sukhwinder Pal Singh. 5 DSPs, 19 inspectors transferred In a major reshuffle, five DSPs and 19 inspectors, including 11 station house officers (SHO), were transferred on Wednesday. DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh was transferred and posted as senior staff officer to DGP, Chandigarh, DSP Jasbir Singh of DANIPS cadre will be posted as DSP security headquarters and operation cell once he joins Chandigarh police. DSP Sita Devi, earlier DSP training, was posted as DSP woman and child care unit, DSP Amrao Singh, earlier DSP women and child care unit, is now posted as deputy commandant home guards. Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO police station, Sector 17, was transferred as SHO police station, industrial area, inspector Om Prakash, SHO, Maloya, was posted as SHO, Sector 17, inspector Rohit Kumar, SHO, Mauli Jagran, transferred as SHO Sarangpur, inspector Jaiveer Singh Rana was transferred from economic offences wing (EOW) to Mauli Jagran police station as SHO, inspector Jaspal was transferred from security wing and posted as SHO, Maloya, inspector Harminderjit Singh, SHO, industrial area, was transferred to traffic, inspector Ranjit Singh shifted from traffic and posted as SHO, Sector 31, inspector Maninder Singh, SHO, Sector 36, was transferred to security wing, inspector Jaspal Singh was shifted from traffic and posted as SHO Sector 36, inspector Rakesh Kumar, SHO, Sector 39, transferred to traffic, inspector Ashok Kumar from crime branch has been posted as SHO Sector 39, inspector Rajeev Kumar in-charge PO and summon staff was transferred to crime branch, inspector Surinder Kumar, SHO, Sector 49, was transferred to traffic, inspector Jai Prakash shifted from Sector 36 police station and posted as SHO, Sector 49, inspector Mini from recruitment and training cell (RTC) was posted as SHO, Sector 19, inspector Malkiat Singh, SHO, Sector 19 was posted to police lines, inspector Devinder Singh from cyber crime investigation cell (CCIC) was posted as SHO, Sector 34, and inspector Hari Om Sharma posted in CCIC is now posted as in-charge, CCIC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-district-crime-cell-to-probe-heinous-crimes-101637182377599.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held with 500g heroin||A 34-year-old man was held with 500g heroin in Jagraon on Wednesday, while his accomplice managed to evade arrest. The accused, Mandeep Singh and Pankaj Malan, residents of Sidhwan Bet village, were on their way to deliver the contraband when they were intercepted en route. Apart from the heroin, a weighing machine and the car they were travelling in, a Toyota Etios, were also seized.Sub-inspector Janak Raj of the Jagraon crime investigation agency (CIA) said, “Acting on a tip-off, assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh intercepted the accused at Leela Megh Singh Bus Stop. The drugs had been bought from a Nigerian national residing in New Delhi.”Mandeep had been acquitted of murder charges in 2009 and had taken to peddling drugs after his release from jail.The accused were booked under sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Sidhwan Bet police station, and efforts are on to nab Pankaj, who is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-with-500g-heroin-101637182077486.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Uber snatched at gunpoint in Panchkula||Three unidentified persons snatched an Uber driver’s car on gunpoint after hiring his services from the Ambala railway station. The incident took place near a petrol pump in Sultanpur village of Panchkula around 2.30am on Tuesday. The cab driver, Krishan Kumar, told the police that he was waiting for customers outside the railway station in Ambala when the trio, of which two were turbaned, approached him. They said they wanted to go to Barwala and agreed to pay ₹700. “As we reached the bus stand of Barwala, one of the men asked me to drop him till Sultanpur. When we reached the first underpass of Sultanpur, he asked me to turn towards the petrol pump. There was a lot of dust on the road, and as I turned towards the petrol pump, the man pointed a pistol on my neck while his accomplice, who was wearing a cap, placed a knife on my abdomen,” said the cab driver. The trio then pushed him out of the car. They even tried to snatch his phone, but Kumar held on it. “They sped away. I also lost some important documents kept inside the car,” he said. A case under Section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959, Section 34 and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uber-snatched-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula-101637181777455.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 9 months on, anti-smog project hangs fire amid worsening air quality||Nine months after municipal corporation officials tested anti-smog guns in the presence of Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, the cutting-edge guns are nowhere in sight even as smog continues to obstruct commuters’ vision, especially in the morning and evening, due to worsening air quality in the region. At the time of the trial, which had taken place in February under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), officials had said that the anti-smog guns will help lower the pollution levels in the industrial hub, and yet the project has failed to see the light of the day. Meanwhile, the air quality index for Ludhiana had dived into the ‘very-poor’ category due to stubble burning, bursting of fire crackers during the festive season and weather conditions conducive to formation of smog. Anti-smog guns spray atomised water into the air to settle dust and other suspended particles, thereby reducing air pollution. An official, who requested anonymity, said, “Authorities have planned to purchase four machines for the city under NCAP. The Union government has allotted ₹52 crore to improve the air quality of the city, of which 70 lakh is to be used to purchase the anti-smog guns.” City has failed to meet air-quality standards for 5 years Ludhiana ranks among the nine non-attainment cities in Punjab as per NCAP norms, which means it has consistently failed to meet the national ambient air-quality standards (NAAQS) for harmful particulate matter, which is 10 microns or less in diameter, for five years. A local, Manjit Singh of Chandigarh Road, blamed the lackadaisical approach of the municipal corporation for the rising pollution levels in the city. “An anti-smog project is the need of the hour. The guns will not only be useful during Diwali or stubble burning season, but round the year as Ludhiana has approximately 1-lakh industrial units.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said tenders for the project had been floated. “It, however, took some time to complete the formalities and to take a call on which machine was to be bought. The tender will be opened next week, after which the guns will be purchased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-9-months-on-anti-smog-project-hangs-fire-amid-worsening-air-quality-101637181657535.html
18-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Impossible to work in BJP’: Ex-TMC lawmaker’s U-turn on civic poll eve||KOLKATA: Nine months after his Delhi-bound chartered flight to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence along with five Trinamool Congress (TMC) rebels, former Bengal lawmaker Prabir Ghosal attacked his new party on Wednesday, saying it was “impossible for anyone to work in the BJP”.Taking the BJP leadership by surprise, Prabir Ghosal, who joined the TMC on the eve of the 2016 assembly polls and won the Uttarpara seat before switching to the BJP in January, wrote an article for Wednesday’s edition of Jago Bangla, the ruling TMC’s official mouthpiece.“The number of people who ask for money all the time outnumbers those who work for the BJP,” Ghosal wrote in his piece which strongly criticized the saffron camp.On January 30, Shah welcomed former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee and a group of rebels into the BJP at his Delhi residence. Banerjee, who was Bengal’s forest minister, resigned from the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah district a day before taking the chartered flight. Those who joined the BJP along with Banerjee in January were Vaishali Dalmiya, the then MLA from Bally in Howrah who had been expelled by the TMC; Prabir Ghosal, the then MLA from Uttarpara in Hooghly district; Rathin Chakraborty, former mayor of Howrah town; Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, former MLA from Ranaghat in Nadia district and actor Rudranil Ghosh.In the March-April assembly polls, Rajib Banerjee, Dalmiya, Ghosal, Chakraborty and Ghosh lost to the TMC.Rajib Banerjee returned to the TMC on October 31. Prabir Ghosal did distance himself from the BJP after the verdict was announced on May 2 but hasn’t walked out of the party yet. The other three also are seen in very few BJP events.“All I have seen in these nine months is BJP leaders and workers in my district asking for money from me for holding party programmes, be it a street-corner meeting or a rally,” Ghosal said on Wednesday afternoon.“Also, there are so many factions in the BJP’s old organisation that anybody will lose count. I find it quite impossible to work here. No state BJP leader has contacted me in months,” he said. The article published in the TMC mouthpiece was seen to signal Ghosal’s exit. But he claimed that he hasn’t spoken with “any senior TMC leader so far about returning to the party”.BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh rubbished his allegations and stressed that Ghosal can just walk out of the party.“If Ghosal wants to return to the TMC, he is free to do so. Why is he maligning the BJP by levelling false allegations? I was the state president till September. He never came to me with his complaints. He is making up stories to impress Mamata Banerjee,” said Ghosh.On Wednesday afternoon, the chief minister said at an administrative meeting that civic body elections, which are long overdue, will be held in Kolkata and Howrah first and will be followed by elections in other districts. There are 120-odd civic bodies across Bengal. Within hours, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar announced two election committees for Howrah and Kolkata. While Vaishali Dalmiya and Rudranil Ghosh were made co-in-charge of the Kolkata committee, Rathin Chakraborty was put in charge of the committee for Howrah. Several BJP leaders said this was an effort to keep the TMC turncoats in good humour on the eve of the civic polls.Although the BJP bagged 77 assembly seats six months ago, five legislators have joined the TMC since June and the party lost two seats in the October 30 bypolls which had to be held because the winners did not take oath in the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/impossible-to-work-in-bjp-ex-tmc-lawmaker-s-u-turn-on-civic-poll-eve-101637181357771.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh agrees to reinstate 178 terminated NHM workers, but with riders||The UT health department on Wednesday announced to reinstate 178 terminated National Health Mission (NHM) workers, provided they give a written apology and assurance to re-join duties on their previous salaries. The services of the NHM workers were terminated on October 18, after they went on a strike without giving prior intimation, to press for salaries at DC rates. In the letter to the terminated staff, NHM nodal officer for UT, Dr Charru Singla said, “Many of the terminated staff, realising their mistake on proceeding on a sudden strike, have appeared before NHM mission director and requested to take them back under NHM. All those who wish to re-join may submit their written request by November 22, while the requests will be considered by the screening committee for appropriate decision.”The screening committee comprises medical superintendent of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, NHM nodal officer and district family welfare officer. The letter further read that the guidelines issued by the Central government for service conditions, including pay to NHM staff, will be strictly followed. As per the decision of the executive committee, the status of salaries or wages to NHM employees is being ascertained from other UTs, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh to re-examine the aspect of pay to NHM staff as per the DC rates, separately.Work will be under scrutiny “Also, the NHM workers conduct will remain under strict watch for at least next six months. In case of any indiscipline or poor performance, their contractual appointment may be terminated again without any notice,” the notice added.Meanwhile, Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “The sudden strike by NHM employees had hampered the health facilities. Even then, we have asked them to join their duties. 12 employees had requested and given us written explanations and we have already taken back their termination. The others can apply too and if their assurance will be satisfactory, they will be hired again.”Around 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff and managerial employees, including nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers, have been working at salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013. Meanwhile, Amit Kumar, general secretary of the NHM union, said, “All the terminated employees want to return to their duties as we have been protesting for the last 20 days. Every employee has a family to look after and without salaries, it is difficult to manage. Also, we will request the authorities to consider the pay hike of the NHM employees at par with DC rate.”FACT FILE:In August, over 300 NHM workers went on indefinite leave for 12 days to press for their demand for equal wages for equal work.
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Evaluation of answer sheet: HC issues notice to Himachal Pradesh University registrar||The Himachal Pradesh High Court has issued notices to the registrar and controller of examination of HP University, Shimla, in a matter related to ‘sheer negligence’ in the evaluation of the answer sheet and causing ‘irreparable loss’ to the career of the petitioner. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Sabina passed these orders on a petition filed by Keshav Singh, who alleged that in June 2020, results of the fifth semester of the course he was enrolled in at Government College, Hamirpur, were declared wherein he got 5 marks only out of 70, due to which he could not get admission to NIT. He applied for rechecking after which he scored 47 marks in that paper. He said the re-evaluation result was declared after counselling of MSc and by that time all seats were filled up and admission of the petitioner was not accepted. He has alleged that though he again qualified for IIT Jam, 2021, the mental harassment and depression which he faced is irreparable. He lost a period of one year during the era of this cutthroat competition and thousands of people overtook him. He has alleged that due to negligence of the respondent university, he remained deprived of investing his one year for making his career bright. The court has directed the respondents to file their reply within three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/evaluation-of-answer-sheet-hc-issues-notice-to-himachal-pradesh-university-registrar-101637180637374.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir sees two-fold rise in Covid deaths in November||The number of deaths due to Covid in Jammu and Kashmir has doubled in just half of November as compared to October while the average daily cases as well as the test positivity rate (TPR) – the percentage of tests turning positive out of the total conducted – shot up by 50%.The compilation of government’s daily Covid data this month revealed that fatalities related to the disease till November 16 were 23, more than double the number of deaths in October and September when 10 persons had died each month. Similarly, TPR has increased to 0.30% in November as compared to 0.20% in October and 0.27% in September. The TPR in the first 16 days of November is highest after July’s 0.32%, when the second wave was tapering off. If TPR is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in a community. The UT recorded 2,183 Covid infections from November 1 to 16 at 136 persons on an average contracting the virus every day. In October, the number was 2,819.However, it is Kashmir which is contributing to the escalating Covid parameters. Of the 2,183 cases so far in November, 1,864 have been reported in Kashmir and of the 23 deaths, the Valley saw 20 fatalities.Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) said hospitals in Valley are once again witnessing a rise in the number of severe infections. ”The number of Covid admissions has increased five times over the last few days,” said DAK president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan. “Most of these admitted patients are either unvaccinated or have received a single dose of vaccine,” he added. In Kashmir, Srinagar has been consistently contributing to the total caseload for the past few weeks. In November, it added 921 cases to the Covid tally.The active cases have shot up by 70% this month — from 902 on October 31 to 1,544 on November 16. The active cases are highest in Srinagar (640), Baramulla (267), Ganderbal (115) and Budgam (113), while 93 such cases are there in Jammu. DAK general secretary Dr Arshad Ali said the number is expected to rise further in coming days as people have abandoned Covid precautions. “Many people don’t wear masks and don’t care about physical distancing,” he said.The data reveals that on an average, 45,047 tests were conducted daily in November against 43,482 daily tests in October. As many as 49,374 average daily tests were done in September, 53,359 in August and 56,719 in July.As many as 13.06 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in November so far. Around 65 lakh people were vaccinated in J&K with one or both the doses in September and October. DAK spokesperson Dr Riyaz Ahmad Dagga said we have a significant portion of the population which is susceptible to the virus. “People must continue to adhere to the health guidelines to avoid a catastrophic slip-up. And, it is vitally important to vaccinate the unvaccinated people quickly to prevent further spread of the disease,” he added. 168 more test positive in last 24 hoursMeanwhile, the UT on Wednesday recorded 168 new Covid cases and two deaths, an official health bulletin said. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 197 with active positive reaching 1,513.The total recoveries reached 3,28,630 and its rate climbed up to 98.21%. The overall cases in J&K have reached 3,34,600 and the death toll stands at 4,457.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-two-fold-rise-in-covid-deaths-in-november-101637180218386.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Stubble burning hurting Punjab more than Delhi, finds PAU report||Backing the Union ministry’s claim that stubble burning is not a major contributor to pollution in Delhi, Punjab Agricultural University experts say stubble burning had affected the air quality in Punjab more than that of the national capital. The varsity’s wind analysis report, which was submitted by climate change and agriculture meteorology department head Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, says the wind speed had exceeded 5km per hour only on three days between October 1 and November 15, and had remained below 2-3km per hour for the remaining days. “In the circumstances, it is unlikely that the smoke travelled 300km and polluted Delhi,” she said, adding that the smoke had raised the pollution level in Punjab more than Delhi. “It was on October 23, 24 and November 2 that the wind speed was found to be over 5km. On the remaining days, when the wind speed was below 2km per hour, photochemical smog was seen locally,” said Sidhu. Photochemical smog is produced when ultraviolet rays from the sun react with nitrogen oxide in the atmosphere. “It is visible as a brown haze, and is most prominent in the morning and afternoon. Earlier, it was only seen in densely populated cities with high-emission levels, but nowadays it is being witnessed in the villages in Malwa region as well,” she said“In layman’s terms, Punjab’s smoke is not travelling 300-400km to choke Delhi’s lungs, rather the farmers are harming their own children and brethren by setting their fields on fire,” said Sidhu. In 2019 and 2020, Ludhiana’s air quality index on Diwali was at 263 and 346 points. However, this year, it crossed 400 points, as per an air-quality website. However, the Central Pollution Control Board website showed the peak pollution level at 293 points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stubble-burning-hurting-punjab-more-than-delhi-finds-pau-report-101637180217309.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||STF report on drug cases should be made public, says Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said the report of the special task force (STF) on drugs should be made public and a time-bound investigation be started to catch the “big fish” involved in the drug trade. In a series of tweets, he said that as per the law, the government had the powers to proceed on the basis of the report. “It should be immediately made public, an FIR should be registered on its basis and a time bound investigation should be initiated to catch the big fishes responsible for narco-terrorism (sic),” he posted.Sidhu’s demand for making the 2018 STF report public has not found favour with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi who insists that opening it is the prerogative of the high court. “How can we open a court document? It is not a government document,” Channi told Hindustan Times in an interview last Sunday.Sharing reports of the National Crime Records Bureau, the PPCC chief tweeted that it was promised to the people of Punjab in 2017 that the backbone of drugs would be broken in four weeks, but the state continuously retained the top position in drug case rate. “We have been accused of carrying forward the inglorious legacy of Akalis by waging a sham war on drugs,” he said in another post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stf-report-on-drug-cases-should-be-made-public-says-punjab-congress-chief-navjot-sidhu-101637180097505.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in J&K Congress: Over a dozen Ghulam Nabi Azad loyalists resign from party posts||Yet again the internal fissures in the J&K Pradesh Congress have come to the fore as over a dozen leaders of the party, loyal to Ghulam Nabi Azad, have resigned from their respective posts. They have sent their resignation letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and incharge J&K affairs Rajni Patil. Those who submitted the resignation are GM Saroori, Jugal Kishore Sharma, Vikar Rasool, Dr Manohar Lal Sharma, Ghulam Nabi Monga, Naresh Gupta, Subash Gupta, Amin Bhat, Anwar Bhat, Inayat Ali and others. On the condition of anonymity, one of the leaders said, “The resignation was sent 10 days ago, but we have been saying it for the past two to three years that we are not being heard in the party. Therefore we resigned from the party posts, but not from the membership”. “Undoubtedly, we are Azad loyalists but not the part of G-23. Moreover, it was not the first instance. At least 10 to 12 letters have been shot to the high command in the past three years telling it to save the JKPCC,” he added. The leader said that majority of those in the JKPCC were not happy with the present leadership and want Ghulam Nabi Azad to rejuvenate Congress in J&K. “Under GA Mir, over 200 leaders, including former minister, MLAs, MLCs and those on key posts have left the party in the past two to three years and joined other outfits,” he added. The leader, however, denied that JKPCC was a divided house. “Party’s official working is not up to the mark and that’s the problem,” he said. JKPCC president GA Mir, meanwhile, feigned ignorance to mass resignations of Azad loyalists from their party posts. “By going to the press, they have violated the discipline and my view is that they will have to get ready to face the consequences,” said Mir. A loyalist of Mir said, “If there was any grievance it should have been raised within the party. If they had sent their resignations to party high command then they should have waited for the reply. Why they went to the media?” “Rahul Gandhi met all of them in Srinagar and Jammu and then to say that they are not being heard is ridiculous,” he said. Mir loyalist claimed that they all were acting on the instructions of Azad. “Bypassing state president and writing to Sonia and Rahul is a violation of the discipline,” he added. Former Congress MLC Naresh Gupta said, “We have tendered resignation from party posts but not from membership. We are the ones who worked for 30 to 40 years and under the leadership of Azad, Indira Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul raised the Congress in J&K.” “We want that new faces should come in the Congress, but the leadership was adamant and we were not being heard. We wanted the party leadership to listen to us and see the reasons behind exit of multiple leaders,” he added. Gupta said none of them was going to join the BJP. “Almost 90% leadership of the J&K Congress want the party to be reinvigorated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-j-k-congress-over-a-dozen-ghulam-nabi-azad-loyalists-resign-from-party-posts-101637179977227.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Akali MLA Bikram Majithia moves high court, says he be made party in Bhola drug case||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court pleading that he be made a party in the Jagdish Bhola drug racket case as his image was being tarnished by his political opponents. The application comes at a time when court is likely to decide on opening of reports lying in a sealed cover since 2018 on the role of high-profile politicians and police officials. Majithia’s application will be taken up by the bench of Justices AG Masih and Sandeep Moudgil on Thursday. Earlier this year, advocate Navkiran Singh, who was an intervener in the 2013 petition, had filed an application seeking opening of the reports. Subsequently, the Punjab government, after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as CM too had filed an application demanding the same. Majithia said in the garb of public interest, a “malicious and malafide agenda” has been launched by his political opponents to target him and give an impression that he has been insulated from a fair investigation process. The application claims that the intervenor, Navkiran Singh, who was the first to demand opening of these reports, is an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and was acting due to political reasons. In the plea, Majithia also levelled allegations against Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who he claimed were indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” on the issue of drugs against him. The plea says the special investigation teams filed 10 challans in the drug cases and no evidence surfaced against the Akali MLA. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) too examined a case in 2017 but no prosecution complaint has been filed till now, he added. The plea claims the allegations made by his political opponents against him are based on statements publically available, which were scrutinised by the investigating agencies, reviewed by court-appointed SITs and discarded by the trial court. Without there being any substantial material on record, his political opponents were targeting him only for reaping political benefits when the Vidhan Sabha elections are just round the corner, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-mla-bikram-majithia-moves-high-court-says-he-be-made-party-in-bhola-drug-case-101637179738296.html
18-11-2021||Other||Explain failure to waive farm loans for five years, Sukhbir to Cong govt||Jalandhar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to answer farmers on why had the Congress hoodwinked them for the past five years, if it did not have any intention to waive their loans. Addressing a public meeting here at Phillaur (Jalandhar) in favour of SAD-BSP candidate Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhbir claimed, “It is shocking that the CM has, in his meeting with Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) representatives, made it clear that the Congress government would not waive loans of farmers as promised by it.”He added that this proved that the Congress government made false promises during its campaigning for the 2017 assembly polls, with the sole intention of just getting their votes.“Channi must seek forgiveness from farmers for this perfidy. The CM has also not done justice with cotton farmers who crop had been damaged due to the pink bollworm attack in the Malwa region, even as the loss is at least ₹40,000 per acre,” he claimed, adding, “Channi says one thing and does another and cannot be trusted.”  Sukhbir held meetings at Phillaur city, Goraya, Gohawar and Takhar villages. He also held one-on-one interaction with different sections of society where he shared his vision for the inclusive growth of Punjab. While answering the public queries, he gave a broad outline of the road map he envisioned for the state, if the SAD-BSP were voted to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/explain-failure-to-waive-farm-loans-for-five-years-sukhbir-to-cong-govt-101637179617037.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||28-member jatha visits Kartarpur on Day 1 of reopening of corridor||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with Congress MLAs to pay obeisance at the shrine across the border todayA 28-member jatha (group) on Wednesday visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, in Pakistan on the first of the reopening of the visa-free corridor for pilgrims after nearly 20 months. The jatha comprising the panj pyare (five beloved of Guru) crossed over to Pakistan at 11am. Officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and the Border Security Force (BSF) honoured the members of the jatha with siropas (robes of honour) at the Dera Baba Nanak integrated check-post (ICP). The first batch of pilgrims, including Neelam Grewal, the vice-chancellor of Guru Kashi University at Talwandi Sabo, was accorded a warm welcome upon crossing the zero line by Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Ameer Singh and chief executive officer of Pakistan project management unit Muhammad Latif. Grewal said she received a phone call on Tuesday and filled the form to visit the shrine. Ameer Singh said it was good that the corridor had finally been opened. “Our prayers have been heard,” he said. “A list of 50 persons comprising some dignitaries and panj pyare was approved by the Centre for Wednesday’s visit but 28 members visited the shrine,” said a senior customs official at the Dera Baba Nanak ICP. The online registration process for visiting Kartarpur has also been started, the official added. “Those who are getting themselves registered through the online portal will be able to cross over to Pakistan after 10 days,” he said. But the online portal shows available slots from November 19 if one applies now.Sources said the first jatha pilgrims also included some of those who had applied slightly before the corridor was closed due to the pandemic outbreak. Lovepreet Singh of Gurdaspur said, “I had applied for visiting Kartarpur Sahib before the lockdown restrictions were imposed. My file was processed and I had got clearance. On Tuesday, I got a call informing me that I can visit the holy shrine. I am quite happy as my wish has been fulfilled.”Jaspal Singh from New Delhi said, “We were given a warm welcome after crossing the zero line. Around 500 people from Pakistan had already been there for paying obeisance. The devotees from Pakistan said they were eagerly awaiting the reopening of the corridor for the last two years.”The reopening of the corridor coincides with the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday announced the Centre’s decision to reopen the visa-free 4.7-km corridor that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib gurdwara on the Indian side with Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, the final resting place of the first Sikh Guru. On Thursday, another group of pilgrims, including Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with other Congress MLAs will visit Kartarpur. It was not confirmed whether Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will also be part of the group. “The list is yet to be finalised, but we think around 100 people will go on Thursday,” said a customs official.A delegation of BJP leaders will also visit the historic gurdwara via the corridor on Thursday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also taking a delegation to pay obeisance at Kartarpur on Friday. AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema said, “All of our MLAs led by party state president Bhagwant Mann will go to Kartarpur on Friday. We are waiting for the clearance.”The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has also announced to take a delegation to Kartarpur on Friday on the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. The delegation will be headed by gurdwara body chief Jagir Kaur. “We are finalising the list of pilgrims who will be part of the SGPC jatha. The list will be sent to the Centre,” said an SGPC spokesperson.LPAI manager Sukhdev Singh said they have made adequate arrangements for hassle-free journey of pilgrims at the Dera Baba Nanak ICP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28member-jatha-visits-kartarpur-on-day-1-of-reopening-of-corridor-101637179138558.html
18-11-2021||Other||Balbir Sodhi (Rani) new Punjab Mahila Cong chief||Chandigarh The Congress on Wednesday appointed Balbir Sodhi (Rani) as president of Punjab Pradesh Mahila Congress. “The Congress president has approved the proposal of the appointment of Balbir Sodhi as president of Punjab Pradesh Mahila Congress with immediate effect,” according to a statement issued by All India Congress Committee general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal. She was president of Kapurthala District Congress earlier. Sodhi was among the aspirants for the Congress ticket for Phagwara (SC) assembly by-election in 2019, but got overlooked as the party opted for a retired IAS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/balbir-sodhi-rani-new-punjab-mahila-cong-chief-101637179137184.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba Mufti stages protest against Hyderpora killings||Holding placard in her hands, former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday held a demonstration against the alleged civilian killings in Hyderpora encounter and said that “Gandhi’s India was being converted into Nathu Ram Godse’s India”. Police had put up concertina wires to bar them from moving further. Later talking to mediapersons, Mehbooba said, “The families in Srinagar Press Colony are demanding bodies of their dead, but this government is so cruel and insensitive that it has refused to give them the bodies.” Terming Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar statement that those killed were terrorists and OGWs a lie, she said, “If they (police) had evidences with them then when why they (those slain) weren’t caught earlier. On a daily basis, police arrest people and put them in jail…Whenever some people get killed in firing, they call them OGWs.” “The under AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) they (security forces) don’t have any accountability and they are not answerable (to anyone). Those killed were innocent people,” she added. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti was placed under house arrest on Wednesday at her residence in Srinagar, the sources said.Meanwhile, her brother Tassaduq Hussain Mufti has been asked to appear before ED in the national capital on Thursday for questioning in a money laundering case. Reacting to this, Mehbooba told PTI that it was a political vendetta against her.National Conference president Farooq Abdullah spoke to J&K LG Manoj Sinha and sought bodies of the civilians. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah blamed the police for putting the two civilians in harm’s way and demanded the return of their bodies.People’s Conference vice-president Abdul Gani Vakil demanded a court-monitored probe in Hyderpora killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-mufti-stages-protest-against-hyderpora-killings-101637178958795.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||'Punjab govt cancelled permits of Badals-owned 31 buses for tax evasion'||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday said the department recently cancelled as many as 125 bus permits, including 31 of buses owned by former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his family members for evasion of vehicle taxes. The action was taken in compliance with provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 as the offenders were trying to hoodwink the system to inflict losses on the state exchequer, Warring said. Reiterating his commitment to ensure transparent and level-playing transport ecosystem in the state, Warring asked the department to further pace up vigil against any attempt to loot the exchequer. Those found involved in any wrongdoing will not be spared, he warned. Nearly 30 integral coach permits of the Badals-run Orbit Aviation, besides one of New Fateh Travels were cancelled for tax default by the Bathinda regional transport authority (RTA), he said. Another 16 ordinary permits of Mandeep Travels were cancelled, a department spokesperson said. Tax liability was pending against New Fateh Bus Service since January this year, while Orbit Aviation was delaying payment of tax from March to October 2021, it is learnt. The Faridkot RTA cancelled 73 ordinary bus permits of New Deep Bus Service, aprt from its 3 integral coach permits with a pending tax of ₹2.62 crore. Two ordinary bus permits of Malwa Bus Service were also cancelled, the spokesperson added. According to information, the Orbit Aviation and Rajdhani submitted ₹10 crore with and 2 crore with Bathinda and Hoshiarpur RTAs respectively after the permits were cancelled on November 12. “The cancellation was done after giving due time to the transporters to pay up the money. The department has agreed for the payment in installment but still the transporters didn’t pay in time,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-cancelled-permits-of-badals-owned-31-buses-for-tax-evasion-minister-warring-101637178897310.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU: Residents of girls’ hostel demand change in entry timings||High drama was witnessed on Wednesday as students protested outside Punjab Agriculture University’s girls’ hostel number 11 demanding change in entry timings.The protesters said that since they get free from their classes around 5pm, they get late with their daily chores and at times return past the deadline of 7pm, following which they face humiliation from the warden. A protester, on the condition of anonymity, said that they are asked to pay a ₹500 fine for late entry into the hostel, which is not feasible for all the students.Moreover, the students complained that they are made to sign each time they enter or exit their hostel even before 7pm. “When the deadline is 7pm, why are we made to sign every time. Moreover, we can’t move from one block to another post 11pm. At times there is no water in our block, but authorities don’t allow us to even get the water from the neighbouring block,” stated a girl who was part of the protest.Students ended their protest after the warden assured them of taking up the issue with the concerned varsity authorities. An official said that the hostel timings always get preponed during the winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pauresidents-of-girls-hostel-demand-change-in-entry-timings-101637178717388.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Linguistics officers deputed in 15 Punjab districts, says Pargat Singh||Punjab higher education minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday said the department has deputed district linguistics officers in 15 districts of the state. Handing over station allotment letters to these officers in Chandigarh, the minister said the government is fully committed to strictly implement the State Language Act. There was a backlog of vacancies of district linguistics officers for the past 25 years as a result of which 21 posts remained vacant, he added. Pargat said the linguistics department is all set to implement the State Languages Act at the ground level. He also directed the department to ensure availability of requisite staff as well as facilities so as to enable the district linguistics officers to engage in their work. “Recently, amendments were made in the State Language Act by the state government to make it more effective. To fill the vacancies the government had invited applications from the other departments for posting of officers on deputation basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/linguistics-officers-deputed-in-15-punjab-districts-says-pargat-singh-101637178657494.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Senior Punjab basketball Championship to kick off today||The 72nd Senior Punjab State Basketball Championship, dedicated to the memory of Arjuna awardee Gurdial Singh Malhi, will start on Thursday at Gureh village.The tournament will be played at the stadium named after the legendary player and will conclude on November 21.IPS officer Yurinder Singh Hayer, who is also the senior vice-president of Punjab Basketball Association, said that they are concentrating on hosting state level basketball tournaments in village centres to encourage the youth.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of PBA, said that 32 teams from all over the state will participate in the tournament, where many national and international basketball players from Punjab will showcase their skills.Brij Goyal, Avtar Singh and Paramvir Bhogal from District Basketball Association thanked PBA for organising the tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senior-punjab-basketball-championship-to-kick-off-today-101637178541117.html
18-11-2021||Other||Punjab CM Channi lays foundation stone of Film City||Fatehgarh Sahib As part of Punjab government’s initiative under Invest Punjab and Business First policy, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stone of a Film City at Mukaronpur village on the Fatehgarh Sahib-Mohali Road on Wednesday, The 400-acre project will be constructed by PFC World Entertainment Private Limited. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “Full cooperation will be extended to the film fraternity to carry out smooth operations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-channi-lays-foundation-stone-of-film-city-101637178357041.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Contractual MC employees’ protest enters Day 5||Ludhiana municipal corporation employees, under the banner of Municipal Karamchari Dal, continued their protest against the state government seeking regularisation of services on Wednesday for the fifth consecutive day outside the Zone-A office. They burnt the effigy of finance minister Manpreet Badal and also condemned the lathi-charge on protesting sanitary staff by the police in Moga on Wednesday. The protesting employees stated that the Moga incident will be the last nail in the coffin of the Congress government in the state. Accusing the government of discrimination against contractual employees of the MC by not involving them in the list of 36,000 employees to be regularised in the state, the union leaders stated that the protest will continue till their demand is met. Chairman of the union, Vijay Danav, said that the lathi-charge on protesting employees in Moga has showed the real face of the Congress government. “Chief minister (CM) Charanjit Channi is trying to woo the SC community, but on the other hand the employees are being denied their rights. We will continue the protest until the employees are regularised and the effigy of deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa will be burned on Thursday,” Danav said.Members of the Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee also condemned the lathi-charge on protesting employees in Moga. Chairman of the union, Ashwani Sahota, demanded that the government should take strict action against the police officials who ordered the lathi-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-contractual-mc-employees-protest-enters-day-5-101637178058298.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Sub-junior baseball championship concludes||Government Senior Secondary School, Kasabad, on Wednesday defeated BCM Focal Point in the final clash of the 8th Sub-junior District Baseball Championship (boys), being conducted by Ludhiana Baseball Association. Guru Nanak Model School, Dholewal, bagged the third spot after beating DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road, 7-5.Ten boys’ teams participated in the tournament.Meanwhile, in the girls’ category, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill, thrashed Government Senior Secondary School, Kasabaad, 25-11.BCM Focal Point secured the third position by defeating International Public School 2-1Eight girls’ teams participated in the tournament including International Public School, BCM Focal Point, Guru Nanak Baseball Club, BCM Pakhowal Road, Government Senior Secondary School Kasabaad, Nightingle Baseball Club, Khalsa Warriors Baseball Club and Gill Baseball Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sub-junior-baseball-championship-concludes-101637177877021.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kids must be extra careful of dengue, say health experts||Dengue fever can affect people of any age group and parents should not mistake it for seasonal viral fever, health experts from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital have cautioned.Dengue fever can affect people of any age group and parents should not mistake it for seasonal viral fever, health experts from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital have cautioned.|#+|As their immune system is still developing, the chances of kids getting severe fever and developing other symptoms of dengue is higher. Also, they are more prone to this disease, as they play outdoors and are not aware of the ways the disease spreads.Dr Puneet A Pooni, professor and head of the department of paediatrics, said, “Parents must ensure that kids wear full-sleeved clothes, use mosquito repellent, maintain good personal hygiene and avoid stagnation of water to stop the breeding of the mosquitoes.’’Dr Deepak Bhat, professor at the department of paediatrics, said that fever is the most common symptom of dengue, and parents must use paracetamol/crocin only and avoid Nimesulide, Ibugesic Plus and Meftal P as these medications can increase the risk of bleeding.According to Dr GS Dhooria, professor, department of paediatrics, sponging during fever (with tap water) and adequate liquid intake can lower risk. “For liquids intake, do not use packed juices, cold drinks, Glucon-D etc. Instead, ORS water or home-made lemon water must be used,” he said.All paediatricians stressed that the parents that as fever recedes, parents must watch out for warning signs. If the child has persistent stomach pain or vomiting, lethargy, mild bleeding from the nose or gums, decreased urination, dry and cool skin or restless, medical help must be sought immediately. Timely diagnosis and prompt response can prevent dengue.23 new dengue cases emergeAs many as 23 fresh cases of dengue were reported from the district in the last 24 hours, district health department officials said on Wednesday. The total count of confirmed dengue patients in the district has reached 1,623, while 4,137 people are suspected to have contracted the disease.Of the total confirmed cases, 1,197 have been reported from Ludhiana city, while the others have been reported from Khanna, Jagraon, Payal, Samrala and Sahnewal among other areas.Meanwhile, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district during in the last 24 hours. The total count of Covid patients in the district has reached 87,643, out of which 2,108 have succumbed to the disease. There were 22 active cases in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kids-must-be-extra-careful-of-dengue-say-health-experts-101637177696910.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||‘Trial courts should comply with Delhi HC order, can’t refuse virtual hearings’||The Delhi high court on Wednesday observed that courts cannot refuse to give links of the virtual hearing to the parties as they are bound by its full court decision permitting trial courts to hold hybrid or video conferencing hearings at the request of parties.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the city government and the high court while hearing an application contending that district courts are not permitting hybrid hearings despite the notification from the high court. “High court has already issued directions. They are bound to comply with it,” the bench said.The application was filed in a pending petition by two lawyers Anil Kumar Hajelay and Manashwy Jha seeking various prayers including conducting hybrid hearings in district courts on physical hearing days because of the Covid-19 threat.The fresh plea has contended that despite the high court’s directions, the subordinate courts were not complying with it. Hajelay claimed that even when advocates are making such a request, permission was not being granted by some of the trial court judges.Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal said that he has also faced similar difficulties. Advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, who was representing the Delhi high court, said he would seek instructions in this regard.The court listed the matter for further hearing on November 18.The court had earlier said there was an apprehension of a rise in Covid-19 cases and directed that the infrastructure for hybrid hearings in district courts and other quasi-judicial bodies must be in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/trial-courts-should-comply-with-delhi-hc-order-can-t-refuse-virtual-hearings-101637177640593.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Foreigner held with heroin worth ₹5 crore in Dwarka||The city police have arrested a 35-year-old Nigerian national and allegedly seized 513 grams of heroin worth ₹5 crore from his possession in Mohan Garden area in Dwarka.Police said the anti-narcotics cell received a tip-off on Monday, following which a team was formed and the suspect, identified as Nnamdi Ilias Akabueze, was apprehended in the evening.“On Monday, secret information was received by constable Pramod through an informer that a Nigerian national, who was indulging in the drugs racket, came near a Chhath puja park in Mohan Garden after which a raid was conducted and the man was apprehended with the drugs consignment,” said a senior police official.Police said they are trying to trace the other people involved in the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiforeigner-held-with-heroin-worth-5-crore-in-dwarka-101637177638004.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram corporation to procure jet packer machine to speed up road repair||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is looking to procure jet patcher machines to repair potholes in a matter of hours, a process that usually takes around a week to complete, said officials on Wednesday.Unlike a conventional hot-mix machine, a jet patcher machine can fix potholes at any time in the year. MCG officials said that jet patcher machines can be used during rains or peak winter season, and its pollution-free component also allows its use during high pollution periods in the national capital region (NCR).“The period between February and May, as well as September are currently the only months in which we can carry out any type of road construction work. We cannot carry out road repair work in June, July, and August due to the rain, or in October, November, and December due to high levels of air pollution. In January, the temperature is too low for initiating bitumen-related work,” said a senior MCG official in the engineering wing, requesting anonymity.The official quoted above explained that with the new machines, it will be possible to ensure potholes are filled as soon as they are noticed--which is of extreme importance during the monsoon season. He said the jet patcher machine costs around ₹2 crore and takes around five minutes to repair a pothole.The MCG has floated a tender to empanel an agency that will maintain roads under the jurisdiction of the civic body by using jet patcher machines to fill potholes. Bids for this tender will be opened next Monday.TL Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, could not be reached for a comment.In a jet patcher machine, air is dispersed at a high speed from a blower to clean the top road surface, then tar is added over the affected patch at a jet-like speed, then a cold mix is subsequently added.Both a hot mix and cold mix have the same components, such as asphalt and bitumen. In a hot mix, these components are heated at a high temperature above 300 degrees Celsius, and ideally used in the construction of high-volume traffic stretches, such as highways. In a cold mix, these components are mixed with water and require no heating. Cold mix is ideal for fixing potholes and other repair work.After the cold mix is added, a final layer of tar is added to even the road surface. Jet patcher machines are usually fixed on top of construction vehicles.Sewa Ram, associate professor and urban roads design expert at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that jet patcher machines will help MCG save both time and money.“With a jet patcher machine, patchwork can be completed within a couple of hours. The other advantage is that the machines are movable and can be transported to any other part of the city on short notice. The biggest advantage, however, is that they will eliminate the need for MCG to float different tenders for localised road repair work. Instead, they can simply use jet patcher machines across the city, thereby saving time and operational costs,” said Sewa Ram.How a jet patcher machine worksIn a jet patcher machine, air is dispersed at a high speed from a blower to clean the top road surface, then tar is added over the affected patch at a jet-like speed, and a cold mix is subsequently added. A final layer of tar is added to even the road surface and the pothole is filled. The entire process takes less than five minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-corporation-to-procure-jet-packer-machine-to-speed-up-road-repair-101637177636993.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 protocol: Delhi Police chief orders focus on bars, restaurants||All police stations have been directed to ensure that bars and restaurants in the national capital adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour for public safety, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said during a crime review meeting with senior police officers on Wednesday. During the meeting, personnel at the station level were also asked to ensure that no person takes a house on rent without being vetted/verified first by the police station concerned. “ All police stations of Delhi have been provided with three Inspector rank officers— a station house officer, inspector(law and order), and Inspector (investigation). This will help in better supervision of criminal investigations, handling law and order challenges and also better management of citizen services at the station level. The availability of three Inspectors will also ensure that each Inspector gets an assured weekly off without hampering the quality of day-to-day management at police stations,” a police spokesperson said. During the meeting, the police chief also told senior officers to ensure coordination between the Railway Police, the Metro Police and the local police for better prevention and detection of crimes in major transportation hubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-protocol-delhi-police-chief-orders-focus-on-bars-restaurants-101637177576976.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sabz Burj gets a new lease of life||New Delhi: It is called Sabz (green) Burj, but covered with turquoise blue tiles. The monument, counted among the earliest Mughal-era buildings, has received a new lease of life following a four-year-long conservation bid. Located at the busy intersection of two key arterial roads—Mathura Road and Lodhi Road— the domed tomb lies to the west of Humayun’s Tomb and serves as a gateway to the world heritage site. Though it is said to be built in the 1530s, there is no record of who built the tomb and for whom. It demonstrates Timurid architectural style synonymous with Central Asia and is double-domed like Humayun’s Tomb. The tomb’s outer dome is dotted with glazed tiles and displays unique geometric and interlacing patterns in different colours, and forms a prominent part of the neighbourhood’s skyline. With the word “sabz” in its name means “green”, the tomb is largely covered in turquoise blue tiles. The lotus finial atop the dome and the neck, however, consist of green tiles. The incised plasterwork also gives a hint of green colour in parts. Experts say that the name of the monument might have originated through local folklores. The monument was used as a police station in the early 20th century. During this period, the painted interiors were plastered over due to which much of the façade decoration was lost, and replaced with layers of cement. By the 1980’s, much of the tile work on the dome had fallen away and was re-tiled with modern tiles fixed with cement mortar. Conservation work at the monument was carried out by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) in partnership with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and funded by Havells through CSR intervention which will also be illuminating the building. The four-year long conservation project involved restoration of tiles on the dome and decorative plaster patterns on all eight sides of the facade. Tiles matching the physical and chemical properties of the 16th century tiles have now been restored on the dome as well as on the drum where pieces were missing. A unique feature of the monument, that came to light during conservation works, was the revelation of a painted ceiling with detailed floral motifs and patterns created in real gold and lapis lazuli. Lapis lazuli, or lapis for short, is a deep-blue metamorphic rock used as a semi-precious stone that has been prized since antiquity for its intense color. Taking into account the immense importance of the ceiling, no restoration of missing portions was carried out by the team. Ratish Nanda, CEO, Aga Khan Trust for Culture India, said the ceiling of the tomb and the building was covered with cement during the time it served as a police station. “The intricate pattern on the ceiling is made of pure gold and lapiz. This is the most significant element of the tomb. However, the building was covered with cement plaster during the time it served as a police station. We tried to remove the layers and unveil the original ceiling as much as we could,” said Nanda. He said while there was no grave at the mausoleum, one could estimate that the tomb belonged to an important nobleman since the ceiling was made of gold. “The ceiling is sensational and of great significance. The yellow traces that we now see is pure gold. The gold painting has been done on pure blue lapiz background. This tells us that someone significant was associate with the tomb,” said Nanda. Ujwala Menon, AKTC’s conservation architect, said over 20,000 tiles were tested for achieving the physical and chemical composition used for the original building. The new tiles were made by skilled craftspersons whereas all surviving original tiles were retained. “The tilework on the dome and the neck, the painted ceiling that has been revealed, the incised plasterwork and the detailed ornamental work in the building that has been restored are some of the significant elements that add to the importance of the structure,” said Menon. Historian and author Swapna Liddle said the high drum of the tomb was a typical feature of Timurid period. Liddle said the architecture made the monument unique. “The ‘Nila Gumbad’ also, to an extent, shows Timurid style,” said Liddle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sabz-burj-gets-a-new-lease-of-life-101637177516973.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Couple arrested for trying to enter Rashtrapati Bhavan||A couple in their mid-20s was arrested for trespassing after they tried to enter Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday night. Police said the man, who works as a hair dresser, and his friend were returning home from a party when they tried entering the President’s estate. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the two, who were in a Hyundai i20 car, tried to enter the President’s estate from gate number 17 on North Avenue and also damaged the police barricades placed at the entryway.“They tried barging inside but were stopped and caught by police personnel. A case has been registered and they have been arrested,” said Yadav.The President’s estate is a high security area, where entry to outsiders is prohibited at all times. The Rashtrapati Bhavan is secured by Delhi Police personnel and personnel from the paramilitary forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicouple-arrested-for-trying-to-enter-rashtrapati-bhavan-101637177456840.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana to restart mid-day meal programme from Jan 1||Haryana education and tourism minister Kanwar Pal on Wednesday said that serving students mid-day meal will restart in the schools from January 1 next year and that the portal for admissions to all colleges has been reopened till November 22.Students seeking admissions in colleges, who have not been able to apply earlier, can do so now, he said, adding that considering safety measures amid stubble burning, all schools will be resumed from December 1.Responding to a question regarding dengue, the education minister said fogging has been done in all schools to tackle dengue and safety instructions have been issued to the teachers.He said under the Super-100 programme being run by the state government, 28 children got admission in IITs and 24 cracked NEET this year. Seven of 24 students selected in NEET got admission in AIIMS.He said considering the success of the Super-100 programme, new centres will be opened in Hisar and Karnal, apart from the existing Rewari and Panchkula centres.He added that the annual Surajkund Fair will be organised from February 4 to 20, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-restart-mid-day-meal-programme-from-jan-1-101637177400282.html
18-11-2021||Other||Hyderabad: Nizam’s mint to be converted into a museum||The 108-year-old Royal Mint established by the sixth Nizam of Hyderabad, the first one to introduce machine-made coins among the princely states of the country those days, is going to be converted into a museum to showcase the coinage and currency heritage of the historic city, officials aware of the plan said.“We are making efforts in creating a permanent museum at the Royal Mint located at Mint Compound, Saifabad, which had produced the first machine-minted coins. We are awaiting the approval from the Centre,” a senior official of the Indian Government, Hyderabad (IMGH), a unit of the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL), under Union ministry of finance, said on condition of anonymity.As a precursor to the efforts to set up the museum, IGMH is organising an exhibition of the machinery used for minting of coins during the Nizam regime, along with the old coins, currency, dyes, casts and other rare artefacts at the Royal Mint for a week from December 6.“It will be thrown open to the people as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme being held to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence,” the official said, adding that once the Centre government gives its nod, it would be converted into a permanent museum.According to Anuradha Reddy, convenor of Indian National Trust for Arts and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Hyderabad chapter, the museum of Royal Mint has been a long-pending demand of the heritage lovers of Hyderabad.“The Mint Compound at Saifabad is a treasure of city’s heritage. The machinery used for minting coins was imported from London those days and it should not be allowed to turn into a scrap. We have been requesting the authorities that the sprawling premises be converted into a numismatics and royal mint museum with access to the common man,” she said, adding that INTACH has been extending its cooperation to IGMH in running the week-long exhibition.According to D Raja Reddy, chairman of Numismatics Society of India, the decision to organise an exhibition of the old coinage and currency of the Nizams besides other rare artefacts of that period and the proposal to convert it into a museum was taken at a meeting of the society held at Salarjung Museum in the last week of October.“The meeting was held in Hyderabad after a gap of nearly 80 years, where it was decided that the heritage of the Nizam’s era should be showcased at the exhibition,” Dr Reddy said.Heritage conservationist Mohd Safiullah said it was in 1803 that Nawab Sikandar Jah, the Nizam III, who had first established the mint at Royal Palace at Sultan Shahi in the old city of Hyderabad. However, it was manufacturing hand-made coins, while the British were using machine-minted coins.In 1893, the Royal Mint of Hyderabad was shifted to a new building at Dar-us-Shafa, during the regime of Mir Mahaboob Ali Khan, the sixth Nizam. He introduced first machine-minted coins, known as Charkhi coins. “In 1903, the sixth Nizam imported the sophisticated machine from London and erected it at the present Mint Compound at Saifabad. It started operating from July 13, 1903,” Safiullah said.According to Dr Reddy, even after the end of the Nizam rule with Hyderabad state being merged with Indian Union on September 17, 1948, the minting of coins at the Royal Mint, Saifabad, continued in the name of the last Nizam of Hyderabad Mir Osman Ali Khan, till January 26, 1950, when India became a Republic.The Royal Mint continued to be used for manufacturing coins by the Indian government till ‘1990s along with three other mints – Noida, Kolkata and Mumbai. Apart from coins, it was used for making medals, souvenirs and badges, Safiullah said.The mint was later shifted to its current location in Cherlapalli on August 20, 1997. Since then, the Mint Compound at Saifabad has been closed. “We hope, it will come alive after being converted into museum,” Anuradha Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-nizam-s-mint-to-be-converted-into-a-museum-101637177398200.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Affordable housing rates revised in Haryana, dearer by ₹200 per sqft||For the first time in seven years, the Haryana government on Wednesday revised the rate of affordable housing projects, increasing them by ₹200 per sqft. According to the new directions, the rate of affordable housing flats in hyper potential zones will now be ₹4,200 per sqft, in high potential zones, the rate will now be ₹3,600 per sqft, while in other areas, the rate will now be ₹3,200 per sqft. The cost of a balcony in affordable flats, which was earlier fixed at ₹500 per sqft, has been increased to ₹1,000 per sqft.The affordable housing policy was launched in 2014 with fixed rates, which are being revised for the first time, officials said. The Haryana government has divided districts into hyper potential zones, high potential zones, medium potential zones, and low potential zones based on demand and rates.Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) officials said that the rates were revised due to an increase in the prices of raw materials and labour. “The decision to increase the price has been taken across the state, keeping in view the change in the cost of input,” said Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner.In another move, the government has also linked 75% of the payment to the status of the construction of the project. The license of an affordable housing project can now also be renewed after four years, which was not allowed earlier, the notification by DTCP said.Pankaj Tomar, a real estate expert, said that the price increase will have an only nominal impact on the buyers as the area of affordable flats is between 400 to 800 sq ft. “The price rise will be somewhere between ₹1 lakh and ₹1.60 lakh per flat. Buyers can still easily afford these flats,” he said.Developers who build affordable projects welcomed the move, but said that they had expected more from the government. “The increase in rate is a positive step, given an almost 50% increase in the price of cement, steel, labour cost and other raw materials. However, we expected more as the rate was not revised for the last seven years,” said Pradeep Agarwal, managing director, Signature Developers.National Real Estate Development Council, which has been pursuing this matter with the Haryana government, said that the costs of raw material and labour increased several times in the last seven years, and the increase should have been higher. “The cost of construction has risen and the rate of increase should have been proportionate, but this is a step in the right direction,” he said.The price increase was approved in a Cabinet meeting on November 2, and the notification was issued by DTCP on Wednesday.Gurugram has over 100 affordable housing projects under construction, in which around 40,000 units are in various stages of development. The affordable housing projects have gained traction, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic as a large number of people are buying their own homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/affordable-housing-rates-revised-in-haryana-dearer-by-200-per-sqft-101637177397034.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi records coldest day of the season, cold-wave like weather at Aya Nagar||Delhi recorded its coldest day of the season on Wednesday with the minimum temperature being recorded at 9.6 degrees Celsius even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) station at Ayanagar registered a ‘coldwave-like’ condition as the minimum temperature (9.1 degrees) stayed four notches below normal.IMD said the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which provides representative data for the entire city, was 9.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the season’s normal, on Wednesday. The maximum temperature was recorded at 27.4 degrees Celsius.At the Aya Nagar observatory, the minimum temperature fell to 9.1 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal. According to IMD, coldwave conditions are declared when the temperature shows a departure of four or more degrees.IMD officials said, Aya Nagar was only the second area in north India that recorded this phenomenon. The minimum temperature at Rajasthan’s Bhilwara was recorded at 7.2 degrees, 5.4 degrees below normal, according to the regional meteorological centre (RMC) website.Mahesh Palwat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said under the impact of La Nina—a climate pattern that occurs in the Pacific Ocean every few years and affects weather around the world—north India can record lower than normal temperatures this winter.“While winters this year is likely to be colder than normal, but during November this year, Delhi has not recorded any western disturbance, which is unusual. After October 24, there has not been any active western disturbance over Delhi. With one western disturbance, we can record a steep drop in temperatures. Till then, minimum temperatures will remain in the same range,” said Palawat.Meanwhile, a mild improvement in local winds on Wednesday led to a marginal reduction in pollution levels in the national capital. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the air quality index of Delhi was 375, categorised as very poor. On Tuesday, Delhi’s AQI was 403, in the severe zone.“Air quality is likely to remain in the very poor zone till November 21, and start improving slowly after that because of increased wind speed,” said a senior Met official on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-coldest-day-of-the-season-cold-wave-like-weather-at-aya-nagar-101637177279181.html
18-11-2021||Noida||75 women get trained for employment in apparel park set to come up in Jewar||Vocational training for locals started on Monday at the Block Development Office in Jewar under the Training and Toolkit scheme of One District One Product initiative of the Uttar Pradesh government. The training is being provided with the aim of generating manpower for industries which will be coming at the Apparel Park being developed in Jewar. The Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC) and the Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC) will jointly conduct the 10-day long vocational training for 75 women in Jewar. The training will help women get hired by the industries set to come up at the Apparel Park, said officials. “The Yeida (Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority) has allotted total 91 plots to the apparel entrepreneurs, who are part of the NAEC, and the possession will be granted soon. The area will be up and running with apparel factories in the next two years. These factories will need manpower to operate. Hence, in order to encourage them to hire locals and generate employment, we are providing training to the women here,” said Lalit Thukral, president of NAEC. He added around 300,000 people will get direct employment in the Apparel Park, oh whom more than 70% will be women.Currently, the training is being conducted at the Block Development Office in Jewar. However, Thukral said a training centre will soon be started here. Another ATDC centre is already functioning in Noida’s Sector 27 where training under the ODOP initiative has been going on since last year.“At the Noida ATDC, 270 people have received training in sewing and designing under the ODOP scheme. The 75 women selected by the district industries department will be given 10 day training on industrial sewing,” said Meenu Dabas, principal at ATDC who will be conducting the training in Jewar.Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner of District Industries Centre, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The main objective of the state government is to train more and more people so that their income increases, as well as product quality and productivity, improve. Under the Training and Toolkit scheme of ODOP, 10 days’ training, a stipend of ₹2,000 and a modern toolkit (electronic sewing machine) will be given to the trainees”.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh said, “It is our endeavour to set up skill training centres at the block level and Nyaya panchayat level so that more and more women can increase their chances of getting employed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/75-women-get-trained-for-employment-in-apparel-park-set-to-come-up-in-jewar-101637177278152.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Construction ban extended till Nov 21, Metro projects among those exempted||The ban on construction in Delhi will now continue till November 21, after the latest directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday evening, but with several exemptions.The CAQM, in its directives, has exempted projects related to railway services, Metro, airports and inter-state bus terminals as well as those related to national security and defence.For the national capital, the exemptions would mean that the ongoing work on Metro’s phase-4 expansion and the elevated cross-taxiway, a new runway and Terminal-2 at the Delhi airport could continue.However, the halt on work at other key infrastructure projects aimed at decongesting city’s arterial stretches will go on. An official of the Public Works Department (PWD), that is implementing many such projects, said they have deputed the workforce on sprinkling water at construction sites to retain them.“The labourers are wary that the ban may continue for long. We hope that an exemption is provided to road infrastructure projects which are almost on the verge of completion,” the official said.PWD is currently working on Pragati Maidan integrated transit corridor development, the Ashram underpass, Benito Juarez Road-San Martin Road underpass and the streetscaping of eleven arterial stretches. Officials said 90% work on the Pragati Maidan and Ashram underpass projects has been completed, and the ban, if extended, may lead to deadlines being missed.At the Delhi airport, work is currently on to build an elevated cross-taxiway, a new runway four and work inside Terminal-2 -- projects that help the Indira Gandhi International Airport double its capacity from 20 million passengers per annum to 40 million passengers.Among important railway projects in the city where work will continue is construction of the new Yamuna Bridge – being built parallel to the old Yamuna bridge (Loha pul). The new structure was set to be completed by December, 2020, but Covid19 delayed work. “No projects have been impacted in Delhi. This includes the new Yamuna bridge project, or the new skywalk being built at the New Delhi railway station,” said Deepak Kumar, chief PRO, Northern Railway.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), is currently undertaking several construction works for three corridors of Phase 4 Metro network expansion. A senior DMRC official, who asked not to be named, said the agency will maintain strict pollution control norms at all sites. “DMRC has been conscious about following environmental norms, and we will continue to follow all the pollution and dust control regulations,” the official said.According to the Supreme Court-mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), construction activities need to be stopped if the air quality index -- on a scale of 0 to 500 -- touches ‘‘severe plus (500+)’ or emergency category.Meanwhile, the National Campaign Committee for Central Legislation on Construction Labour -- a construction workers’ body -- filed a petition in the Supreme Court on Wednesday, seeking ex-gratia relief schemes for daily workers who will suffer loss of income due to ban on work.Blanket ban on construction activities, without identifying and excluding the ones which do not contribute towards air pollution is “irrational, arbitrary and whimsical”, the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/construction-ban-extended-till-nov-21-metro-projects-among-those-exempted-101637177276998.html
18-11-2021||Other||Delhi’s model to tackle pollution unrealistic, claims Punjab BJP||Chandigarh BJP state general secretary Subhash Sharma said the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had completely failed to make Delhi pollution-free. He added that its focus on bio-decomposers was unrealistic and it only ended up wasting money. “Do you want to bring this Delhi model to Punjab? He said that if there is pollution in Delhi due to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, then Punjab and Haryana should have maximum pollution. But Delhi’s air quality is worse, why so? he questioned Kejriwal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-model-to-tackle-pollution-unrealistic-claims-punjab-bjp-101637177158067.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Gopal Rai lists new 10-point plan as Delhi continues to gasp||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the state government was prepared to enforce the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), with additional measures such as using fire trucks to sprinkle water at the city’s 13 pollution hot spots, and procuring 1,000 private buses augment the public bus fleet.Rai said the state government has prepared a 10-point “decision list” that includes the measures suggested by the federal air panel as well as those that are being enforced by the state government.After an emergency meeting with state government officials and agencies, CAQM on Tuesday evening announced ban on construction work and offline classes in Delhi-NCR, and barred entry of trucks in Delhi. The meeting was held in response to a 24-hour deadline set by the Supreme Court for the authorities to prepare a list of urgent steps to control rising air pollution levels.Also read | As schools remain shut, calls get louder for a solution to Capital’s pollution crisisRai said the Delhi government on Saturday banned construction and demolition (C&D) activities till November 17, but it has now been extended till November 21. Similarly, the work from home directive to all government offices will remain in force until November 21. The Delhi government also shut down educational institutions till November 21, that will now continue until further orders, Rai added.“Police and the transport department have been ordered to ensure that commercial vehicles, barring essential services, are not allowed to enter Delhi. To encourage public transport in Delhi, one thousand private CNG buses will be hired, the process for which will begin tomorrow. So, in addition to the existing public bus, a thousand more will be added to encourage use of public transport,” Rai said.To further cut use of private vehicles, Rai said the government has also asked the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to allow standing passengers in Metro trains and buses.“So far Covid norms only permit full sitting in both Metro and buses to prevent crowding, which restricts capacity. Metro and DTC have both written letters to the DDMA to reconsider this position as the Metro sees a large share of the commuters standing and travelling. Keeping this in mind letters have been written for the DDMA to issue new directions so that the carrying capacity in both buses and Metro can be increased,” he explained.The CAQM also asked states to crack down on 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles. The state government said the transport department and the police have been handed a list of all such vehicles to take appropriate action.“Checking of PUC (pollution under control) certificates at petrol pumps will be reinforced. In addition to 372 water tankers that are operating currently, fire engines will be deployed at the 13 hot spots in Delhi to increase spraying capacity,” said Rai, adding that a traffic police special task force has been formed cut traffic congestion at busy stretches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gopal-rai-lists-new-10-point-plan-as-delhi-continues-to-gasp-101637177156824.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Schools, colleges in Gurugram to remain closed, over 930 industries to stay shut||As pollution levels continue to fluctuate between “very poor” and “severe” in the National Capital Region (NCR), officials of the Haryana government on Wednesday said they will follow Tuesday’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) directions, which include the closure of all educational institutions until further notice. The directions came on the heels of the Haryana government’s Sunday order to close all schools and ban construction activities till November 17 in the four districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar. Sanjeev Kaushal, the additional chief secretary for disaster management in the state, said, “Last Sunday, the state disaster management authority issued orders that schools will remain closed till November 17, but now, in accordance with Tuesday’s CAQM order, schools, colleges, educational institutions will remain closed till further notice. The directions of the CAQM are quite comprehensive and cover all issues. These orders will be fully complied with. The same has been communicated to all the deputy commissioners.”Rashmi Malik, the principal of Salwan Public School said, “The school is completely closed for all students but students from Board classes (classes 10 and 12) can come to get their doubts cleared. We will follow online mode of education for the others.”Gurugram recorded “very poor” air for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 344, according to Central Pollution Control Board data. Its neighbouring cities of Faridabad and Manesar also recorded “very poor” air quality with AQI readings of 378 and 336, respectively. According to the weather bulletin issued on Wednesday evening by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, NCR’s air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in the “very poor” category on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. It is likely to improve significantly from Sunday owing to relatively strong winds. Meanwhile, CAQM on Tuesday also ordered that “all industries in NCR with gas connectivity shall be run only on gas as a fuel, failing which industries concerned shall be closed. This commission has already repeatedly directed not to permit any industry to use unapproved fuels. All industries in NCR still using unapproved fuels shall be closed by respective governments with immediate effect.” On Monday, a high-level meeting was convened by the additional chief secretary of disaster management, before CAQM’s meeting on Tuesday, where the state industries department had said that over 900 industries in the NCR were still using unapproved fuels. “With the implementation of the CAQM’s order, the functioning of around 933 industries in Haryana’s NCR districts will be affected as many of them are still using furnace oil, diesel or other such fuels to operate. Only industrial units that are using PNG and CNG will be allowed to function,” added Kaushal. The state government also closed down two power plants in Panipat, in accordance with the CAQM order, which said that only five of the 11 thermal power plants located within a 300km radius of Delhi – NTPC, Jhajjar; Mahatma Gandhi TPS, CLP Jhajjar; Panipat TPS, HPGCL; Nabha Power Ltd. TPS, Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo TPS, Mansa – will remain operational till November 30.Along with this, CAQM encouraged work from home in NCR districts to reduce vehicular emissions.The state government also considered implementing the odd-even scheme for traffic in four NCR districts, but dropped the idea after consultation with CAQM on Tuesday, said officials. S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board said, “The Supreme Court heard the matter of increasing air pollution in NCR and action taken by different states, after which the apex court instructed us to follow the directions of CAQM and will hear the case again on next Wednesday. No additional directions were issued by the state government. The Haryana government proposed that the odd-even scheme can also be implemented in four districts of NCR, but CAQM said that it could lead to confusion among passengers as it is not being implemented in Delhi or other NCR districts of Haryana. We were rather directed to implement pollution control measures for severe plus category, so the proposal was struck down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-colleges-in-gurugram-to-remain-closed-over-930-industries-to-stay-shut-101637177096910.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Govt issues order, bans entry of trucks in Capital||New Delhi: A day after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, issued a set of directions to control pollution in the region, the Delhi government on Wednesday issued an order banning the entry of all trucks (except those carrying essential commodities) coming from other states into Delhi till November 21. “It is hereby ordered that the entry of trucks in Delhi shall be barred with immediate effect till November 21 or till further orders. This order shall not apply to trucks carrying essential commodities such as raw vegetables, fruits, grains, milk, eggs, ice that is to be used as a food item, and tankers carrying petroleum products,” the order issued by Delhi transport department said. A senior official of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) that on Wednesday, trucks were turned back from the state borders. “Enforcement teams were deployed on all borders of Delhi on Wednesday. All trucks that were carrying non-essential items were turned back,” the official said.Officials could not give an exact figure on how many trucks now enter Delhi every day, but the order is unlikely to cause major chaos as most of the non-destined commercial vehicles now bypass the city by taking the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around the Capital.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the contribution from trucks in Delhi’s air has reduced over the last couple years due to the expressways, but they are still one of the biggest polluters in the vehicle segment. “These are heavy duty vehicles, and trucks enter Delhi in the night when temperatures are low and these emissions can stay trapped in the air till the next day. In our analysis in 2015, we found that trucks were contributing to around 30% of the total pollution due to vehicles,” she said. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said while the ban on entry of trucks into Delhi was a good move, there also needs to be a restriction on the movement of private vehicles in order to complement the ban. “Cutting down intra-city vehicular traffic would not only reduce vehicular exhaust emissions but also contribute to reducing re-suspended dust and idling emissions,” she said. The Delhi traffic police said teams have been formed to keep a check on the movement of trucks at the Delhi borders. “We have deployed teams that will check the freight being carried by the trucks and they will be allowed to enter the city only if they are carrying essential items,” a senior traffic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-govt-issues-order-bans-entry-of-trucks-in-capital-101637177038055.html
18-11-2021||Other||Couple found dead few hours after shifting to their new house in Lucknow||Lucknow Just a few hours after shifting to their new house on Tuesday night, a couple was found dead in their room in Khargapur locality under Gomti Nagar extension police station here on Wednesday morning. The woman’s body was found lying on the bed while the man’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a room, said police officials. The police suspected that the man hanged self after strangulating his wife to death over some dispute after a housewarming party on Tuesday night. Senior sub-inspector of Gomti Nagar extension police station, Bhutan Singh said that the deceased were identified as Sadhna Mishra, 31, and Shyam Kishore Mishra, 34, residents of Gonda. He said the couple along with their two kids, aged 6 and 8, earlier lived in a rented house in Gomti Nagar and the man along with his two brothers Ram Kishore and Brij Kishore used to run a building material business as well as a mobile store near Husadiya crossing in Gomti Nagar. The SSI said the three brothers together purchased a house in Gangotri Vihar Phase II colony in Khargapur locality and shifted to their new house on Tuesday night. He said the initial investigation suggested that the couple confronted over some issue after the housewarming party got over during which the man might have accidentally strangulated his wife to death, and thereafter hanged self after realising his fault. He said that the couple was happily married for 14 years. The police, however, had called forensic experts and further investigating into the matter was on. The two bodies had been sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain their cause of deaths, the SSI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-found-dead-few-hours-after-shifting-to-their-new-house-in-lucknow-101637177037000.html
18-11-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu moves Supreme Court over Vanniyar quota||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government and BJP’s ally the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) have filed separate petitions in the Supreme Court challenging the Madras high court order of November 1 that struck down the 10.5% internal reservation allotted for the Vanniyar community within the existing 20% quota for Most Backward Classes (MBCs). The government’s main grounds for an appeal are three fold -- there is a prima facie case that it has acted diligently and that the entire admission would suffer hardship. Secondly, the government’s petition says that the high court’s order is “erroneous, contrary to existing provisions of law and deserves interference” from the Supreme Court. Thirdly, the government states that the balance of convenience is in favour of the petitioner. HT has seen a copy of the 318-page petition. The Tamil Nadu government’s special leave petition is represented by advocate D Kumanan who prayed to the Supreme Court to grant a special leave to appeal against the judgement of the Madras high court and pass appropriate orders based on the circumstances of the case. The petition also seeks interim relief such as a stay on the judgement. The reservation for government employment and education was brought in by the previous AIADMK government just before the model code of conduct came into effect in February this year. The reservation was implemented after the DMK formed the government in May. The Madras high court’s November 1 order running 814-pages declared it as ultra vires the constitution. The court said that they find the impugned legislation is in violation of Articles 15, 16 and 29 of the Constitution of India as it treats one caste- Vanniayars--differently and discriminates others. The petition argued that the government passed the enactment based on “adequate, authenticated” data on population of the MBCs and Denotified Communities (DCs) enumerated in 1983 by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission under retired IAS officer J A Ambasankar. The commission submitted its door-to-door enumeration of the entire state’s population to the government in 1985. “The caste-wise population data disclosed by Ambasankar Commission is the only authenticated data available as of now before the state and such data can be effectively used to plan for sub-classification within the backward classes,” the petition read. Carving out a quota from an existing reservation is called sub-categorisation. The government also quoted the Supreme Court’s May 2021 judgement in the case of Jaishrilakshmirao Patil versus The Chief Minister and others which decided on the powers of the state to legislate for the identification of socially and economically backward classes. The judgment was also in favour of the existing powers for making special reservation and sub-classification within backward classes, the government said in its petition. In the majority of this judgement, the apex court held that the state’s power remains undisturbed to make reservation in favour of a particular community, caste, the quantum of reservations and the nature of benefits fall within the ambit of Article 15 and 16 (except for identification of SEBCs). This has been the observation in the Maratha case, too the petition said. The state also argued that there is no necessity to consult the National Commission for Backward Classes in respect of the state lists in this matter. The petition further says that the high court referred to the 1992 Indra Sawhney versus Union of India case but did not follow an observation from it where the SC had held that caste if often a social class in the country. “As such, a caste, which is socially and educationally backward may be classified as Backward classes,” the petition said. Meanwhile, the PMK filed two petitions with the Supreme Court challenging the same. “One if from the party and the other is filed independently by the party founder as both are respondents in the original case in the high court,” said PMK spokesperson and advocate K Balu. PMK founder S Ramadoss in his petition argued that internal reservation for Muslims and Arunthathiyars have been provided within the overall 69% reservation in place in Tamil Nadu which has been upheld by the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-moves-supreme-court-over-vanniyar-quota-101637176976874.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Sikhs in Gurugram offer Muslims space in gurdwaras for Friday prayers||A few days after a Hindu resident came forward to offer his property to Muslims for Friday prayers, the Sikh community in the city on Wednesday offered space in their gurdwaras to hold the juma namaz.A few days after a Hindu resident came forward to offer his property to Muslims for Friday prayers, the Sikh community in the city on Wednesday offered space in their gurdwaras to hold the juma namaz.|#+|The Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha, which has four large and one gurdwara under its aegis, said all communities were welcome to offer prayers there, and if Muslims were facing any resistance in conducting prayers, then the gurdwaras can be used for the purpose.Sherdil Singh Sandhu, president, Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha, said they will allow members of the all faiths to use the premises for prayers. “The Muslim community are facing problems due to lack of space, so they can use the premises of our five gurudwaras for Friday prayers. All religions are one and we have faith in humanity and human values,” he said.Also read | Namaz row: Roads not for religious activities, says Haryana minister Anil VijOver the past two months, right-wing outfits have tried to disrupt namaz in the open, especially in Sector 12, and on October 29, 35 protesters were detained for attempting to disrupt Friday prayers. Representatives of the Muslim community had agreed to relocate from the Sector 12 site, urging the administration to allot them alternative space and to also clear encroachments from Waqf Board properties.Members of the Muslim community also sought police protection to offer namaz at the other designated sites, citing scarcity of closed spaces for offering Friday prayers.JP Singh, senior vice-president of the sabha, said they believed in the oneness of God and the Sikh community is always ready to help everyone. “All are welcome to pray on the gurdwara premises as per their beliefs,” he said.The sabha’s five gurdwara premises can accommodate around 2,000 to 2,500 people at a time, the office-bearers said.Last week, Akshay Yadav, offered his shop’s premises in Sector 12 for Friday prayers, a gesture that had won him accolades from all corners.“I am confident that more and more people across communities will come forward to offer their private properties so that Muslims can offer Juma Namaz every Friday for 30 minutes,” said Altaf Ahmad, co-founder, Gurgaon Muslim Council and Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sikhs-in-gurugram-offer-muslims-space-in-gurdwaras-for-friday-prayers-101637176916887.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kovind visits Bhiwani village to launch public facilities||President Ram Nath Kovind visited Bhiwani’s Sui village on Wednesday and inaugurated many public facilities.The village is being developed as ‘adarsh gram’ by the Mahadevi Parameshwaridas Jindal Charitable Trust under the Haryana government’s Swa-Prerit Adarsh Gram Yojana (SPAGY).Kovind interacted with students and residents of Sui village before addressing a gathering. President Kovind appreciated SK Jindal and his family’s contributions in making Sui a ‘model village’.“Haryana has emerged as a hub for sports and players including Rani Rampal and Neeraj Chopra have brought laurels to the nation. I urge you not to differentiate between a boy and a girl child. I invite the residents of Sui village to visit the President office,” he said.The President and his wife Savita Kovind planted a peepal tree at Sui village. The Jindal family trust has developed Sui village while carrying out developmental works worth over ₹25 crore.The village is equipped with library, reverse osmosis (RO) water facility, eight parks, a new school building, 250 streetlights, an auditorium and a lake.Bhiwani has become the first district in India where two Presidents have visited. In 2007, the then President, APJ Abdul Kalam, had visited Bhiwani.Kovind appreciated the Haryana government for implementing the Adarsh Gram Yojana.“Other people will take inspiration from these examples and come forward for development of villages. If we develop our villages, our country will turn into a developed nation,” he added.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar accepted all the demands put forward by the residents of Sui village.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala offered to establish a project in the village under the ‘One block, one product’ scheme through which the government will develop an industrial cluster on 50 acre land.Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, state agriculture minister JP Dalal, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kovind-visits-bhiwani-village-to-launch-public-facilities-101637176861240.html
18-11-2021||Other||Telangana CM KCR writes to PM Modi, urges Centre to expedite rice purchase||Hyderabad Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday requested the Centre to step up rice procurement through the Food Corporation of India and also come up with an annual procurement plan in advance so that the state could plan its agriculture calendar.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief minister requested that the FCI be directed to increase the rice procurement target for Telangana from 4 million tonnes to 90% of the entire production for the Kharif season, as was done in the case of Punjab.He also sought to know how much rice would be procured by the Centre from the state during ensuing Rabi season.KCR pointed out that the policies adopted by the FCI were creating confusion among farmers and also for the state government. “The FCI has not fixed any target of rice procurement for the entire year in one go. Further, even though the production is increasing year after year, the procurement is not keeping pace with it,” he said.He said though the rice production in Telangana during Kharif 2020-21 was over 5.57 million tonnes, the procurement was only 3.26 million tonnes, which is 59% of the production. “This was far less than the 78% procured in Kharif 2019-20. As a result, the state government was unable to implement a rational cropping pattern,” he said.The chief minister said he had met Union minister for food and public distribution Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on September 25 and 26 and sought that the annual procurement targets be fixed, but there was no communication from the Centre so far.KCR requested the Prime Minister to direct the FCI to procure another 500,000 tonnes of rice produced during the last Rabi season 2020-21 and also confirm the target of procurement of rice from Telangana during the next Rabi season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-cm-kcr-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-centre-to-expedite-rice-purchase-101637176859791.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Forest officials launch hunt for leopard captured in CCTV camera||Teams of the divisional forest department have launched a search for a leopard, which they said was spotted in the CCTV camera of a house in Sector 13 of Raj Nagar in Ghaziabad around 2am on Wednesday. During the same month last year, another leopard had barged into the official residence of Kanchan Verma, then vice chairperson of the Ghaziabad Development Authority. Officials of the forest department said the animal was spotted around 2.02am in the CCTV camera installed outside the house. “Late in the night, the occupants of the house heard some noise and checked the CCT]V footage in the morning. An animal was spotted and from the built and tail, it seems to be a leopard. The fishing cat, in comparison, is smaller than a leopard. We have roped in teams to trace the leopard and also trying to find its pug marks,” said Ashok Gupta, forest ranger, Ghaziabad. “It seems that the animal ventured into thick vegetation and could not be traced so far. On Thursday, we will bring in a cage and set a trap. Last year, a leopard had surfaced from the official residence of GDA vice chairperson but it could not be traced after a hectic search of almost a week,” said added. The Raj Nagar area is close to open fields having thick vegetation and open spaces, which are also close to neighbouring villages. The locality also shelters many big residential and official complexes of different Central government departments, which have thick green cover and safe hiding places for animals. “There is hardly a distance of 500 metres between the spot in Sector 13, where the animal was sighted, and the official residence of GDA vice-chairperson, where a leopard was spotted last year. Further, areas around these spots have thick greenery and provide a safe hiding place for leopards. The administration should take notice and sound alert in the area so residents are aware of the animal’s presence,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar. The spots where the two leopards have been sighted in a span of a year are at a stone’s throw distance from the official residences of the district magistrate, SSP Ghaziabad and other official residences of administrative officials.Leopard sightings are not uncommon in Ghaziabad. In December 2014, the carcass of a leopard was discovered from the stretches of Yamuna river in Pychara village in Loni, Ghaziabad. A day later, another leopard was found dead in the fields of Abupur in Modi Nagar, Ghaziabad and suspected to have died of electrocution. A leopard was sighted in Vaishali on August 1, 2019. In April 2017, a male leopard was also captured from Krishna Vihar Kuti area close to Hindon airbase after it injured two people and a cattle. According to officials, leopard is listed under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and included in Appendix I of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife Fauna and Flora). It is also listed as ‘near threatened’ on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-forest-officials-launch-hunt-for-leopard-captured-in-cctv-camera-101637176858277.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Jangpura murders: 5 suspects held, stole ₹90 lakh from house, say police||New Delhi: The police arrested five people on Wednesday for murdering two women in Jangpura Extension, and said that the five suspects stole nearly ₹90 lakh cash from the house after getting a tip-off from a former domestic help.Mina Rai, 35, a domestic help, and Sujata Gurung,40, a nursing attendant, were found murdered in the house on two separate floors on Monday. A CCTV camera in the area captured the five suspects who came there carrying backpacks. A police officer, who asked not to be named, said they got the first clue when a CCTV footage showed that the suspects used bike in the heist. He said from the registration plate of the vehicle they traced the owner of the bike, Sachit Saxena. He said Saxena led them to the other four suspects. The police did not share details about the house owner or whose money it was, but said the cash has been recovered. Besides Saxena, the police identified the other suspects as Prashant Basista, Aniket Jha, Ramesh and Dhananjay Gulia. Police said all five have no criminal record. The officer quoted above said it was Saxena who got the tip-off about the cash in the house. “The accused had come prepared with chloroform, tape, cutter, ropes and masks to commit the robbery. They had given each other code names 1,2,3,4 and 5 not to reveal their identity while communicating during the heist. On Monday evening, they assembled outside the house around 10pm and waited there for at least three hours. Around 1.30am, they entered the house from the back door,” the officer said.Police said the five suspects first murdered Mina Rai who woke up on their entry. “They overpowered her, pinned her to the ground, tied her hands and legs and taped her mouth. They used chloroform to ensure that she doesn’t raise an alarm, and strangled her. After this, when they were searching the other room, Sujata woke up. She too was overpowered, and smothered with a pillow. They put the cash in two bags and exited the house,” the police officer added.Police said they are investigating the role of the maid who allegedly gave the tip-off to the suspects, but did not reveal her identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jangpura-murders-5-suspects-held-stole-rs-90-lakh-from-house-say-police-101637176738215.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Calls get louder for solution to Delhi's pollution amid closure of schools||With the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) announcing the closure of educational institutions for in-person classes until further notice in Delhi and its adjoining areas, schools and universities have switched to online learning once again. Several principals said students have been thrust into uncertainty again, and the mental fatigue due to repeated suspension of in-person classes will affect young children the most.“All public and private schools, colleges, and educational institutions in NCR shall remain closed until further orders, allowing only online mode of education,” the CAQM said late Tuesday night.While public and private schools in the national capital reopened for classes 9 to 12 in September, students up to class 8 started returning to school only from November 1. Most private schools in the capital reopened only after Diwali (November 4) for middle school and were planning to reopen for the primary sections this week. With the latest order, schools will now continue with online learning in these classes.Also read | Gopal Rai lists new 10-point plan as Delhi continues to gaspSudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference which has over 120 Delhi schools as members, said the abrupt suspension of in-person classes yet again has affected children.“Students have expressed disappointment as they have been struggling with mental fatigue. The uncertainty over in-person classes has been going on for around two years now. We had just reopened our canteen and the woman running it had invested a significant amount of money on safety protocols, hiring new staff, and procuring all necessities. Authorities have to find a way to mitigate pollution instead of locking children indoors because the air inside homes is also not great. Not everyone has air purifiers,” she said.With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations underway for minor subjects, class 10 and 12 students are allowed to come to schools along with support staff needed for conducting examinations. However, schools have ensured that only those needed on the premises are called in until further orders.Anuradha Joshi, principal of Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, said, “We already had a blended mode of learning in place since schools were asked to allow students to opt for either online or in-person learning. So we are okay either way. But with repeated closures, children end up becoming lonely and their social and emotional learning takes a hit,” she said.Minakshi Kushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan, said authorities need to tackle pollution urgently. “Covid was beyond us, but pollution is a recurring problem and it needs to be a top agenda for all stakeholders throughout the year. While the pandemic allowed us to develop blended learning as an alternative option that could be used during extreme weather conditions, it will only work if it is a one-time measure. The present order comes after a series of Covid-induced lockdowns and these disruptions [of in-person learning] will impact the stability that children need,” she said.For government schools, the problem is particularly severe as they were slated to hold midterm examinations later this month for classes 9 and 11. Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of a government school in West Vinod Nagar, said, “Attendance in schools can pick up only with time as concerned parents are reassured about the children’s well-being. Suspension of in-person classes yet again will break that momentum. We are also slated to hold midterms for classes 9 and 11 later this month in the pen and paper mode. But now, everything depends on when schools can reopen and how they are allowed to function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-schools-remain-shut-calls-get-louder-for-a-solution-to-capital-s-pollution-crisis-101637176736963.html
18-11-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu seeks timeframe for governors to decide on bills||With Tamil Nadu awaiting a decision from constitutional authorities on two crucial issues -- for the exemption from NEET and the release of prisoners in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case -- the state’s Speaker M Appavu came down heavily on governors sitting on Bills indefinitely and also said that if the President rejects a Bill, people are entitled to know why.Appavu was speaking at the Presiding Officers’ conference held in Shimla on Wednesday. The conference was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Appavu said that this was an important issue facing state legislatures and also pitched for fixing a time frame within which governors have to send bills to the President for his consideration. “When a Bill is passed by a majority and sent for the assent of the governor, the governors sometimes sit over the bill without giving his assent or returning the Bill for an indefinite period, even though the Constitution requires it to be done ‘as soon as possible’,” Appavu said. He added that “another problem” which erodes authority of legislatures is that where a Bill is required to be reserved for the consideration of the President, the governors “are taking months together” even though they are bound to do so immediately. Pointing out that though governors are heads of the state executive since they are appointed by the Union government, they are overruling the will of the state’s people when they stall the assent to a Bill. “We have to work together to set a binding time frame within which bills have to be assented to, returned or reserved for the consideration of the Hon’ble President of India by the Hon’ble Governors,” Appavu said.He said that another “Constitutional issue” is for the President to give reasons if he withholds the assent and returns the bill. This would help the House to enact another bill by correcting shortfalls that caused the bill to be rejected, he said. “How else will the House that enacted the Bill know what is the real impediment in withholding the assent?” he questioned saying that the House reflects the will of the people so it amounts to rejection of them too. “Therefore, are not the people entitled to know at least the reason for which the Bill was not assented to?”The Speaker’s comments assume significance in the backdrop of a Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly on September 13 seeking exemption for students from the state from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) required for undergraduate medical college admissions. The Bill was passed by the ruling DMK with the support of all parties except the BJP and it happened during the time when then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was transferred and before Governor R N Ravi took charge on September 18. The Bill is pending with Ravi and it is unclear if the Bill has been sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. In 2017, the President had rejected a similar Bill seeking NEET exemption passed by the Assembly under the previous AIADMK regime. In another sensitive issue in the state, in 2018 the Tamil Nadu cabinet passed a unanimous resolution in the assembly regarding the release of the seven prisoners convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The resolution was sent to then Governor Purohit but he did not take any action for more than two years. In January this year the Supreme Court, while hearing a plea, expressed that they were unhappy with the delay. In February this year, Purohit without taking a call passed the buck and said that the President was the competent authority to decide on the resolution. After forming the government in May, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin wrote a letter to President Kovind urging him to remit the life sentence of the seven convicts and to direct their immediate release.The BJP in Tamil Nadu reacted saying that the Speaker should have had more awareness on the issue. “The Governor and the President operate as per the Constitution and no where is a time frame set,” said BJP’s spokesperson Narayanan Thirupathy. “Also the Supreme Court has so many times refused to instruct a time frame in several cases. I think the Speaker should have been aware of these aspects.”Appavu recalled that President Kovind participated in the centenary celebrations of the Tamil Nadu assembly where he unveiled a portrait of DMK’s late patriarch M Karunanidhi. Quoting Karunanidhi, Appavu said that the legislature is like a mirror to the executive branch. “The mirror reflects not only the beauty but also the flaws. Similarly, the Legislature should not only laud the good work of the Government but also criticize it when it falls short,” he said while seeing changes. On the role of presiding officers, he said that they are the ultimate arbiters. “A very heavy responsibility is cast on the Presiding Officers to ensure that the independent and sovereign functions of the Legislature are guided in accordance with the Constitution so that the Judicial branch is not called upon to test the decisions of the Speakers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-seeks-timeframe-for-governors-to-decide-on-bills-101637176679784.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of agitation’s anniversary, rift between farm leaders widens||Ahead of the anniversary of farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three farm laws, the rift between farmer seems to be widening with farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni launching a fresh salvo on Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, accusing them of “stifling his voice” by creating a parallel SKM wing in Haryana.“Over 700 farmers have sacrificed their lives and hundreds are facing FIRs during the agitation. It is painful that some leaders, who are followed by farmers, are lying to them and conspiring to defame their counterparts from Haryana,” he added.Charuni’s statement comes in response to SKM leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan announcing that the SKM leaders from Haryana, in a meeting, had unanimously decided to take out a protest march on November 24.Ugrahan had also claimed that his union, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), has support from farmers of three districts of Haryana – Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal. He had requested farmers from these areas to ensure a huge gathering at the protest march.Charuni claimed that his decision to hold meetings under Mission Punjab has given strength to the agitation while the decision to continue protests at borders has weakened the stir.‘Parallel SKM Haryana was created’He said in the beginning of the agitation, he was made the leader of SKM Haryana. But now, a parallel SKM has been created to counter Charuni’s decisions and create a rift among farmers of Haryana, the leader claimed.Charuni had earlier announced to launch a Saheed Samman Yatra (foot march) from Mohara grain market in Ambala on November 25 but a few days later, the SKM leaders announced to launch a parallel protest march from the same venue on November 24.Charuni said to avoid any confrontation among farmers and farm leaders he has withdrawn his decision to launch the foot march as the other group associated with the SKM has decided to launch a parallel protest from the same venue.“We have withdrawn our decision of the protest march from Mohra in interest of the farming community as we do not want to weaken the agitation at any cost,” Charuni said.He said before announcing the parallel protest march, the SKM leaders should have at least discussed it with the local farm leaders.‘Punjab leaders worried over my popularity’Charuni, who has already announced that farmers should field their own candidates for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab, said, “Farm leaders from Punjab are jealous of my increasing popularity in their state as people of Punjab are calling me for meetings and rallies.”“Some farm leaders from Punjab conspired against me and announced to launch parallel protest march. Par is pavittar andolan ke liye hum apna sar jhuka bhi sakte hai aur katwa bhi sakte hai (But for this pure agitation, we can bent our head and even sacrifice our lives),” he added.Charuni said he is happy with the SKM’s decision to launch a protest march on the anniversary of the agitation and said he will support the SKM’s call.He accused morcha leaders of lying that they held a meeting and decided to launch the protest march.Meanwhile, another farm leader from Haryana’s Hisar, Suresh Koth, has slammed Charuni and said he had taken many steps in Charuni’s favour. He said the decision to start protest march was taken on demand of farmers from Ambala and later the SKM leaders had approved it.He said the agitation is going in the right direction as all farm leaders are fighting for the rights of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-agitation-s-anniversary-rift-between-farm-leaders-widens-101637176678618.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram authority to repair 264 patches on IMT Manesar-Pataudi Road||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will be repairing 264 patches on the road between IMT Manesar and Pataudi Road to ensure smooth movement of vehicles, said officials on Wednesday. The chief executive officer of GMDA has also instructed officials to upload before and after pictures of these patches on the myGurugram mobile app for transparency on the repair work. The decision was taken during the core planning committee meeting of the authority on Tuesday. During the meeting, the executive engineer of infrastructure-I division informed that the master road from IMT Manesar to Pataudi Road is damaged and needs to be repaired. A 3.5km stretch of the road will be repaired at a cost of ₹1.43 crore. Shaveta Sharma, executive engineer of infrastructure 1 division of the authority, said, “The present condition of the road does not allow movement of heavy traffic, and, to make it motorable, we will be conducting patch work on this road. It can include laying layers of bitumen or gravel or any other repair work. The road in this region needs to be of 50 MSA (million standard axle), whereas currently it is of 10MSA. The whole design of the road is not in sync with today’s traffic, and, after doing a thorough study of the road, we are finalising a detailed project report for further improvement, but, meanwhile, this patch work will be done to make the road motorable.” During the core planning committee meeting, the chief executive officer directed that “the status of the roads and patches for the point of time just before the work is undertaken and after the completion of the work should be uploaded on the app.” Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA, could not be reached for a comment despite several attempts.Industrial associations from Manesar have been requesting GMDA to repair this road since February as this road connects to the KMP Expressway and also diverts traffic towards National Highway 48. Manoj Tyagi, general secretary of IMT Industrial Association, said, “Repairing this road will help reduce congestion as traffic for Manesar and Pataudi both pass through this area. This road is also the key connecting path for KMP Expressway and due to potholes and damages, travel becomes difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-authority-to-repair-264-patches-on-imt-manesar-pataudi-road-101637176565510.html
18-11-2021||Other||Protest at Dr Shakuntala Mishra Rehabilitation University after death of visually challenged girl||Lucknow Students of the Dr Shakuntala Mishra Rehabilitation University (SMRU), Mohan Road, Lucknow, staged a protest on Wednesday morning over the death of a 24-year-old visually-challenged girl student. She died after being hit by a bus on the university campus, said police officials. The students alleged negligence of the university administration behind the accident and demanded ex-gratia of ₹40 lakh to the girl’s family as well as fulfilling of their other demands. The students’ protest continued till late evening as the university agreed to give ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh, they said. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Kakori, Syed Ali Abbas said that the deceased was identified as Ruksar Jahan, a resident of Siwan, Bihar, and she was a student of BA Part II. He said that the accident took place near the limb centre when the bus driver was reversing it and hit the girl causing her fatal injuries. She was rushed to the trauma centre of King George Medical University (KGMU) where she succumbed to her injuries during treatment. “The university proctor Prof BK Singh has lodged an FIR against the driver, Karan Singh, under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 304 A for causing death due to negligent driving at Kakori police station. The complainant, in the FIR, has mentioned that the accident took place around 10.30am when the bus was returning after dropping the students at the limb centre,” the ACP said.The university registrar Amit Singh admitted that there was negligence on the part of the bus driver. He said, “Students were demanding ₹40 lakh exgratia, following which their memorandum has been sent to the state government for further consideration. However, the university administration has agreed for immediate payment of ₹5 lakh ex-gratia to the student’s family.” Singh said that the student’s family had been informed in Siwan, Bihar and they would be reaching here by Thursday morning, and till then the victim’s body had been kept in the KGMU’s mortuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-at-dr-shakuntala-mishra-rehabilitation-university-after-death-of-visually-challenged-girl-101637176564330.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Clips of US show by Vir Das spark row, complaint filed in Delhi||A roughly seven-minute monologue by comedian Vir Das at an event in the United States sparked a controversy in India on Wednesday with a storm of criticism and a police complaint filed against him for allegedly insulting the country. At an event at the John F Kennedy Centre for Performing Arts on November 13, Das contrasted the “two Indias” he hailed from, taking on issues such as women’s safety, Covid-19, pollution and the farmer’s protest. The satirist uploaded a 6 minute 53 second video clip of his monologue on his YouTube channel on November 15, sparking a political row. Aditya Jha, a spokesperson of the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), filed a complaint with the Delhi Police against Das for allegedly “insulting the country” in his monologue. Delhi Police is yet to file an FIR in the case.“There is enough evidence in the speech to show that he has insulted the country. He has made perverted comments about women in India among other topics. He talks about raping women at night. Police said they were busy in a crime review meeting today. I will follow up the status of my complaint again tomorrow (Thursday),” said Jha. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, “We are looking into the complaint.”Mumbai BJP secretary Vivekanand Gupta also wrote an email to Delhi Police seeking registration of an FIR against Das, “for hurting the feelings of nationalistsIn the video, Das spoke about “two Indias”, taking digs at the “duality of the citizens” “I come from an India where we worship women during the day and gang rape them at night,” Das told the packed Washington, DC venue.As controversy swirled over his comments, Das clarified his stand. “The video is a satire about the duality of two very separate India’s that do different things. Like any nation has light and dark, good and evil within it. None of this is a secret. The video appeals for us to never forget that we are great. To never stop focusing on what makes us great...Please do not be fooled by edited excerpts... I take pride in my country and I carry that pride across the world...” “It ends in a gigantic patriotic round of applause for a country we all love, believe in and are proud of. That there is more to our country than the headlines, a deep beauty. That’s the point of the video and the reason for the applause.”He found backing from Trinamool Congress member Mahua Moitra as well as Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor.Sibal said that none can doubt that there are two Indias. “…Just that we don’t want an Indian to tell the world about it. We are intolerant and hypocritical,” he said. Tharoor praised Das as a stand-up comedian who knew the real meaning of the term “stand up” was not physical but moral.Moitra thanked Das for speaking truth about “Two Indias”. “Reactions also from 2 Indias - one having a laugh & other filing complaints with police!” she tweeted.  But Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi hit out at Das, saying that “generalising the evils of a few individuals and vilifying the nation as a whole in front of the world is just not done”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clips-of-us-show-by-vir-das-spark-row-complaint-filed-in-delhi-101637176500326.html
18-11-2021||Other||Two fresh Zika cases reported in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Two fresh Zika virus cases were reported in Lucknow on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases detected in the state capital to five. The two cases were reported from Lok Bandhu hospital where they had gone to see a doctor for fever, according to health department officials. One of the patients is 40-year-old while another is 70-year-old. Both the new patients are in home isolation at present, they said. So far, one woman and four men have tested positive for Zika virus in Lucknow. These cases were detected in Lalkuan, Husainganj, Alambagh, Azad Nagar and LDA colony. Lucknow reported first Zika case on November 11. “Health teams visited Azad Nagar and LDA colony from where two new cases were reported, on Wednesday. Samples of nine people who were in close contact of the two positive patients have been taken for Zika test,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. “The teams met neighbours of the two cases and explained them preventive measures,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. The urban malaria unit also conducted source reduction exercise to eliminate mosquitos, he added. The teams also visited other areas of the city from where Zika cases were reported earlier. They took 66 samples from these areas after screening about 8,000 residents. Reports of 113 samples that were taken a day before came and all were negative. “Zika virus is primarily transmitted to people through the bite of an infected mosquito from the Aedes genus. Hence, if residents protect themselves from mosquito bites, the virus won’t spread. Using mosquito net at home, keeping surrounding clean and free from stagnant water, and wearing clothes that cover body adequately are the measures for protection against Zika virus,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-fresh-zika-cases-reported-in-lucknow-101637176499216.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Preparations in full swing for PM Modi visit||Preparations are on in full swing for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the Noida international airport project at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway on November 25.Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the agency engaged in the preparations, has levelled 135,000 square metres of agricultural land, set up three makeshift tents for the audience, carved out seven parking lots to accommodate vehicles, and is about to complete the work on four helipads.“We are working in coordination with all the departments as it is the most important task at hand. The venue will be ready well in advance as per the schedule,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of NIAL.According to political analysts, the laying of the Jewar airport’s foundation stone will be the biggest event in western Uttar Pradesh, attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior party leaders, before the state goes to polls in 2022.“We have already booked at least 70,000 chairs for the event and created a space for an audience of around 250,000 people. This is a crucial event because the Jewar airport will bring immense business opportunities, boost the economy and create jobs for the youth, not only in this district but in the entire UP. We are inviting farmers and other sections of the population to come and listen to our Prime Minister and chief minister on this historic event,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.According to the schedule, NIAL will hand over the venue to security officers for safety purposes two days before the event. The event will take place between Ranhera and Rohi villages, where the airport project is planned. NIAL said that it has created space for all sections such as Bharatiya Janata Party workers, senior leaders, the press, and women separately, so as to avoid law and order issues at the event.“We have made adequate arrangements to make sure that the event takes place smoothly without any mismanagement,” said Jewar’s MLA Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/preparations-in-full-swing-for-pm-modi-visit-101637176498163.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air pollution in Delhi: Haryana shuts down two thermal power plant units, industries||The Haryana government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court (SC) that two units of the Panipat thermal power plant having a total capacity of 450MW have been closed down till November 30 as a measure to control air pollution in the national capital.As per an affidavit filed by the state government in compliance of the November 15 directions of the apex court, all industries except the ones that have been converted into piped natural gas, compressed natural gas or cleaner fuel have been directed to be closed down till November 30.Officials said following the Supreme Court’s directions, a meeting of the administrative secretaries of power, environment and climate change, agriculture, transport, urban local bodies, industries, officers of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and deputy commissioners of Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat was convened to discuss and firm up measures to curb air pollution in the national capital territory of Delhi.The state government told the apex court that the agriculture department will issue advertisements in all prominent newspapers and electronic media, requesting the farmers not to burn crop residue in Haryana at least for the next 15 days.Also, the deputy commissioners of Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat have been directed to implement work from home measures in government and private sectors by issuing suitable advisory.“Further, it was decided that there will be special drives in all national capital region (NCR) districts to check plying of heavy vehicles for carrying stone, construction and demolition material without appropriate cover. Such vehicles will be challaned and not allowed to ply till compliance is made. There will be special drive for implementing 10- and 15-year ban on diesel and petrol vehicles, respectively, in the NCR districts,” the affidavit said.The state government said the urban local bodies department will constitute teams along with the district administration to check solid-waste burning and violations at construction sites including non-covering of construction material, areas and non-sprinkling of water through anti-smog guns. The department will also use maximum number of machines for sweeping and intensifying sprinkling activities through tankers and anti-smog guns.The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas on Tuesday directed the state governments to implement these measures for reducing the air pollution in the national capital.Some of the measures, as per the Commission, are to remain in force till November 21 when the air quality is likely to improve due to relatively strong winds. However, these measures are also subject to review.The apex court had on November 15 said the major contributors of air pollution in the national capital region were construction activities, running of non¬essential industries, transport and running of coal-based power plants.The apex court had also said the affidavits filed in the matter indicate that stubble burning is not responsible for causing air pollution to that extent except for the two months of October and November.“However, we find that there is a rise in stubble burning incidents in Punjab and Haryana. With a view to avoid air pollution, we direct both the state governments to persuade the farmers not to set fire to stubble at least for a period of two weeks,” the SC bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-pollution-in-delhi-haryana-shuts-down-two-thermal-power-plant-units-industries-101637176436912.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Remove squatters from Kalkaji Mandir, orders Delhi high court||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has issued a slew of directions on the functioning of the Kalkaji temple including the removal of shopkeepers and their families who have started residing in the mandir premises illegally.Justice Prathiba M Singh, in an order of Monday, said that the shopkeepers or their families also cannot reside in the mandir complex. The court said this conduct is “impermissible” and is nothing but unauthorized encroachment and trespass into the mandir’s premises.“Accordingly, the administrator, with the cooperation of the Delhi Police and the SDMC, is permitted to take action for removal of all the unauthorized encroachments within the Kalkaji Mandir premises within two weeks. If any of the shopkeepers and illegal residents in the Mandir premises are entitled to seek alternate accommodation, the DUSIB may consider their request and provide alternate premises on humanitarian grounds.“However, it is made clear that the pendency of any application for alternate accommodation before DUSIB shall not come in the way of the removal of encroachments and unauthorized construction of shopkeepers from the Mandir premises,” the court said in a 16-page order.The court, while hearing a bunch of pleas on various issues like cleanliness, puja rights and collection of offerings, also ordered that South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to inspect the toilet complexes at least twice a day for the next 15 days to ensure the maintenance of the cleanliness and hygiene of the toilet complexes.With respect to the disposal of garbage, the court has directed the SDMC to conduct an inspection along with the administrator, Rtd Justice JR Midha to ensure that adequate steps are taken to ensure garbage disposal at the Mandir premises, and the same takes place at least three times a day.“The SDMC shall also ensure that adequate garbage bins are provided in the premises for collection and disposal of garbage,” the court noted in a 16-page order passed on November 15.The directions were passed pursuant to the report submitted by the administrator Midha highlighting various issues including sanitation, drinking water facility, encroachment of the vendors, fire safety etc.Taking note of the suggestions made by the administrator that a fire audit is required in the temple, the court asked Delhi Fire Services to conduct an inspection of the mandir premises and submit a report on the steps that would be required for ensuring access for fire tenders and for the maintenance of fire safety in and around the Mandir premisesDuring the hearing, the court’s notice was brought to a video of some police officials assaulting a devotee during the Navratras. The court issued directions to the DCP of Delhi Police to ensure that adequate personnel are posted at the temple, along with women constables also.The judge further added that the same set of constables should not be deployed at the mandir and the set needs to be changed at least twice a month.Among other directions, the court said that a medical centre should be run continuously at the Kalkaji Mandir premises to cater to the devotees who visit the temple round the year.The court also directed the Delhi Jal Board to send a team to the mandir for inspection and take immediate steps for laying down a temporary pipeline for uninterrupted supply of drinking water to the devotees in the Mandir, as also for running water supply to the toilet complexes.The administrator’s finding had said that there are three piyaos in the mandir premises, however, regular water is not being made available by the Delhi Jal Board, or any of the baridaars, or even the Shri Kalkaji Mandir Prabandhak Sudhar Committee.The matter would be heard on December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/remove-squatters-from-kalkaji-mandir-orders-delhi-high-court-101637176317057.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||HC censures govt over illegal street vendors, says city is bursting at seams||Taking a strict view of the increasing number of illegal street vendors in the national capital, the Delhi high court on Wednesday said it cannot “let the city to go to the dogs”.“We can’t let the city go to the dogs….We are here to protect the rule of law,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said, adding that the city is “bursting at the seams” currently.“What is troubling us today and what is a cause of concern is the number of street vendors. Your population may be rising but the area in Delhi is constant. So how many vendors are you going to be permitting? What are the zones? It (the city) is bursting at the seams,” the bench said, while hearing a plea by the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, challenging the validity of Delhi Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2019, framed by the Delhi government.The plea, filed through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, has sought to strike down various provisions of the scheme contending that it is arbitrary, discriminatory, and illegal.The court said it does not want another Lajpat Nagar or Nehru Place to come up and the authorities have to limit the number of vendors so that there is no crowding on the streets and residents have sufficient space to walk. “Please understand that for a place where there are 120-odd tehbazaari (hawking) right holders, there are about 4,000 (vendors). Where do people walk? We don’t want another Lajpat Nagar or Nehru Place,” the court said. The court, while issuing notice to the authorities, directed them to file their replies within two weeks detailing the justification for the constitution of the current town vending committee (TVC) and also the background of NGO members who have been included in the TVC.During the proceedings, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, urged the court to not take any action for three months while assuring it that the work on the ground will be carried out.To this, the court replied that it can’t grant leverage even for a single day. “.. forget about three months, three months is too long, not even a single day... We have not said anything or passed any order staying actions of TVC. We are very clear, we can’t let the city go to the dogs. We are here to protect the rule of law. Rule of law does not mean you only look at one constituency and say that, “look their rights are there, they need to be protected”. Vendors have a right but no right is absolute,” the bench said.Citing an example of Connaught Place, the court said despite being a “no hawking and vending” zone, the area is flooded with vendors.“When you permit them, you permit them in such an unregulated manner that today that market has lost its character. People pay lakhs of rent per month. They say they made a mistake by abiding by the law as there are 10 vendors sitting outside their shops and customers cannot enter, because there is a problem of hygiene and law and order. The market has lost its character. You should see it from the shopkeepers’ perspective also,” the court said.“Whenever you find a picture of Delhi, iconic buildings and iconic places, you either find CP or Qutub Minar. That’s how you depict Delhi. And very conveniently you don’t even think it necessary for having a representative of CP associations in the TVC. That is why we take your assurances with a pinch of salt.”The matter will be next heard on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-censures-govt-over-illegal-street-vendors-says-city-is-bursting-at-seams-101637176258247.html
18-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana CM Khattar forms committee to curb pollution||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said that a district-level committee comprising engineers from different civic agencies, which will include the deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner of Gurugram, has been constituted to suggest and implement measures to curb air pollution. Khattar, who was speaking to the media after chairing the district grievance redressal committee meeting in Gurugram, said all efforts are being made to check pollution, including implementing the directions of the Supreme Court. “The government has imposed a ban on construction, and only factories using clean fuel are being allowed to operate. We are also mulling implementing the odd-even formula for vehicles if there is a consensus among different agencies,” said Khattar. However, state government officials said they considered implementing the odd-even scheme in four NCR districts, but dropped the idea after consultation with CAQM on Tuesday. The CM said that 14 out of 16 grievances were resolved at the meeting, while matters related to the public raised by public representatives were also heard and resolved. In the matter pertaining to the transfer of colonies to MCG, Khattar said that five out of eight private colonies have been transferred and the rest will also get transferred gradually. “The matter of transferring DLF Phase 3 was discussed and it was decided that till December 31, 2021, residents can pay maintenance to the developer, after which the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram will get the pending work completed,” he said. For unauthorised colonies in the state, the CM said that the 1,200 such colonies have registered at the portal created for the purpose, and now the government has decided to reopen the portal for the remaining colonies. “Every plot owner will have to pay the development fees for getting basic amenities,” he said. The chief minister also announced that a foot overbridge would be constructed at Tau Devi Lal Stadium on Medanta side, so that sportspersons can cross the road safely. “There have been instances where sportspersons were injured due to accidents. We have decided to construct a foot overbridge,” he said. Khattar also announced that as part of a new policy, the government will soon allow flexibility in the property registration process. “A property in any tehsil of the district can be registered across the district instead of within the tehsil. This will greatly reduce the burden on people and make it easier for them to register deeds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-cm-khattar-forms-committee-to-curb-pollution-101637176256867.html
18-11-2021||Other||Oommen Chandy urges Sonia Gandhi to call off revamp of Kerala Congress unit||Thiruvananthapuram Former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy on Wednesday called on Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi urging her to call off the ongoing revamp in the state unit in view of the upcoming organisational elections. After meeting Gandhi, Chandy said whatever he wanted to say he has conveyed it to the party president and general secretary Tariq Anwar and he did not want to make them public. Leaders close to him said he expressed reservations over recent disciplinary actions against some leaders and criticised the style of functioning of the new leadership in the state. Tariq Anwar is expected to visit the state on Thursday, a senior leader said. But the official faction maintained that they made changes with the knowledge of central leaders. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said if senior leaders have any reservations or apprehensions they will be cleared soon. “We always respect seniors. If they have some reservations we will talk to them,” he said in Kozhikode in north Kerala. Senior leader Ramesh Chennithala is also expected to arrive in the national capital next week. Dissension in the state unit aggravated after the appointment of new Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland, Kannur and Opposition leader VD Satheesan. The move sidelined two powerful blocs, led by Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who dominated the state unit for more than a decade-and-a-half. Serious differences between leaders have percolated down the party chain of command. Disciplinary actions were taken against leaders who aired their discontent in public. Last week a former state secretary M A Latheef, a staunch loyalist of Chandy, was suspended for “anti-party activities”. He said he was suspended without any notice and he has no idea why disciplinary action was taken against him. But later the PCC made it clear that action was initiated for dissident activities. Some of the expelled leaders like Anil Kumar and P S Prashant later joined the ruling CPI(M) in August. Earlier, Chandy had criticised the way senior leaders were suspended and asked the new leadership to exercise restraint and take everyone along. But the PCC president maintained that discipline was supreme in the party. In the April assembly elections, the party was expecting to return to power, given the pattern of power alternating between the state’s two major formations, but it faced a humiliating defeat. The fact that party leader, Rahul Gandhi, is a member of Parliament from Kerala added to the ignominy. It led to a major internal shift in the power structure and leadership was forced to intervene in the faction-ridden unit. “Changes were brought in the name of factions but new factions have emerged in the party now,” said political commentator Sunnykutty Abraham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oommen-chandy-urges-sonia-gandhi-to-call-off-revamp-of-kerala-congress-unit-101637176196830.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Fake call centre busted in Noida, 8 men arrested for cheating US citizens||Eight people, who allegedly cheated US nationals of approximately ₹6-7 crore by pretending to be officials of an investigating agency and threatening to link their names with drug cartels, were arrested during a joint operation conducted by the Noida police and the department of telecommunications, (DOT), Government of India, on Wednesday morning. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the suspects operated from an office in Sector 62. “Around 4am on Wednesday, a team from Sector 58 police station and DOT conducted a search at the office and arrested eight people,” said Singh. The suspects have been identified as Sumit Tyagi (25) and Rahat Ali (28) from Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad; Arun Chauhan (24) from Hapur; Vishal Tomar (24) from Noida’s Sector 39; Keshav Tyagi (24) from Meerut; Prashant Lakhera (24) and his brother Satyendra Lakhera (26) and Sunil Verma (25) from Panna in Madhya Pradesh. Prashant and Satyendra are the cousins of the mastermind of the racket Vinod Lakhera (35), who is on the run. During interrogation, Singh said, the suspects revealed they mostly targeted Americans to escape local police’s surveillance. “The suspects were in contact with some US based vendors, who provided them data of people allegedly involved in the use of drugs. The suspects targeted such people through a mobile application and sometimes, identified themselves as investigating agency officials or someone close to the agency. They told the victims that they had information of them buying drugs from California or Mexico. Since drug use draws strict punishment in the United States, some people got scared when they received such fraudulent calls and fell for the trap. The suspects then tricked the victims to pay gift cards worth USD 100-150 (between ₹7,500- ₹11,000) or threatened to link their names with some drug cartel and jail them,” said Singh. Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Noida said the suspects then encashed the gift cards into Indian currency using a website. “Sometimes, the suspects also took the victims’ mobile phones and computers on remote access and fraudulently withdrew money from their accounts. They used to cheat people and make USD 3,000-4,000 per day, which roughly translates to ₹ 2.22 lakh – ₹2.96 lakh,” he said. The suspects said they had taken on English names to make fraudulent calls. Police said Sumit Tyagi identified himself as Rick Allen from Santa Clara city in California; Arun Chauhan identified as Jack, VIshal Tomar as Henry, and so on and so forth. Rahat Ali alias Wilson said he joined the company after watching an advertisement six months ago. “I joined the company and realised that this was a fraud. Since I had no other job, I continued this,” he said. Police have recovered ten computers, one laptop, one printer, ten headphones, one internet router, four hard discs, 16 RAM, 99 letterhead pads and six mobile phones from the suspects. Police said they are yet to find out the total number of people the gang has cheated. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have advised job seekers to verify a call centre/company’s credentials before joining them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fake-call-centre-busted-in-noida-8-men-arrested-for-cheating-us-citizens-101637176136953.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: EDMC carries out anti-mosquito pilot drive using drone||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) started using drone on Wednesday for spraying larvicide in places that are inaccessible to municipal workers. The pilot exercise was carried out on the banks of Yamuna, near the Yamuna Bank Metro station. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said a 12 litre container of larvicide was attached to the drone and a 3km area was covered by the flying device. Beer Singh Panwar, chairman of the standing committee, said on Wednesday, the EDMC hired only a single drone for the exercise and more will be hired for the anti-dengue programme in the coming days.A senior municipal official from the public health department said the drone will be used to spray larvicides and anti-mosquito drugs on rooftops and water tanks in vulnerable areas where domestic breeding checkers of the corporation are unable to reach. The civic bodies had also used drones during the disinfection drives last year to control the spread of Covid-19. The drones had sprayed sodium hypochlorite solution in areas that municipal workers could not reach. However, the efficacy of using drones for covering a large surface area was widely questioned at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiedmc-carries-out-anti-mosquito-pilot-drive-using-drone-101637176076782.html
18-11-2021||Other||Andhra civic polls: YSRCP makes inroads into TDP bastion||HyderabadIn a major blow to the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on Wednesday successfully made inroads into former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s bastion at Kuppam in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the municipal elections. Of the total 25 wards in Kuppam municipality, the YSRCP won one ward unanimously and another 18 during the polls which took place on Monday.The TDP managed to win just six wards, according to the results declared on Wednesday. Taking a dig at Naidu over his party’s poll performance, state minister for panchayat raj and senior YSRCP leader Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said it would be better if the former chief minister stepped down as TDP chief.“It is now evident that Naidu cannot win from Kuppam in the next assembly elections. He is welcome to come to my constituency, Punganur, and prove his worth by defeating me. This is my challenge. Otherwise, he should quit politics and take a rest in Hyderabad,” Reddy said.The principal opposition party in the state, however, accused YSRCP of manipulating the electoral process and winning the Kuppam municipality through misuse of official machinery and abuse of police forces.“If people have voted for the YSRCP out of their love for chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, party leaders should explain why TDP leaders were arrested and prevented from campaigning. Why were TDP leaders arrested while YSRCP leaders freely entered the polling booths? Why did the YSRCP bring impersonators from other districts and rig the polling process? Why did the party spend hundreds of crores in just one municipality?” TDP politburo member and lawmaker Nimmala Ramanaidu said. Kuppam was a stronghold of the TDP since 1989 and was represented by Naidu for the last seven terms. Ever since the YSRCP came to power in the state in May 2019, the party has been focusing on Kuppam with a view to end Naidu’s political career.In the gram panchayat elections held in February this year, the YSRCP had won 75 out of 89 gram panchayats in Kuppam while the TDP had won only 14.In the subsequent local body elections in April, the TDP managed to secure only three out of 65 mandal parishad (block parishad) territorial constituencies (MPTCs). It also lost all four zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) in Kuppam.The YSRCP’s comprehensive victory in the latest polls has come as a major jolt to TDP cadres in general, and Naidu in particular. “The development in Kuppam is an important psychological result which will hit the morale of the TDP, whose strength is already dwindling, public support waning and optics of a potential resurgence is deteriorating,” political analyst and senior journalist Sriram Karri said.Karri also pointed out that the beginning of the TDP’s downfall had begun with its defeat in the 2019 assembly elections and the strategic mistake of leaving the National Democratic Alliance. “The TD has time till next elections to recoup but a superficial reading and anecdotal analysis points to no silver lining for the yellow party,” he observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-civic-polls-ysrcp-makes-inroads-into-tdp-bastion-101637176019811.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court refuses relief to teacher who refused to get vaccinated||The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to grant interim relief to a Delhi government school teacher who is unvaccinated and had moved the court, challenging a circular that made vaccination mandatory for coming to school.Justice Rekha Palli refused to allow the teacher to join duty — he has been marked “on leave” as he is unable to come to school without vaccination— saying she was not inclined to interfere unless there was a medical issue.“I am not inclined. Why should she not get vaccinated? There is no case for interim relief,” the court said, adding that being unvaccinated “puts everyone at risk”.The court issued notice and sought the city government’s response on the teacher’s challenge to the order of the directorate of education, restraining unvaccinated teachers from attending school from October 15.Appearing for the Delhi government, counsel Siddharth Krishna opposed the petition and said that allowing the petitioner to come to school would put students at risk.Senior lawyer Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the teacher, stated his client “does not want to expose her body to external substances” and presently, she has strong immunity as her antibody count was 427. The senior counsel contended that vaccination was voluntary and being unvaccinated was not a crime. The counsel also emphasised that there was nothing to prove that mandatory vaccination prevented transmission of the novel coronavirus.Urging the court to allow the petitioner to resume work, he stated that she was willing to undertake the Covid-19 test every month and practice Covid-appropriate behaviour.To this, the court said, “Not at all. I will not touch that matter. I am not inclined at all unless there is a serious problem.” Palli said it was because of vaccination that there were now milder cases of the virus. “Today the position that we are in, it is because of vaccination,” she said.The petitioner agreed to get herself vaccinated without prejudice to her rights and contentions but urged the authorities to “take responsibility for any short-term or long-term consequences”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-relief-to-teacher-who-refused-to-get-vaccinated-101637176018737.html
18-11-2021||Other||School vice principal held for aiding exam paper leak: Police||Kydganj police arrested the vice principal of KN Katju Intermediate College Akash Khare, on Wednesday. Police said Khare was wanted for allegedly aiding question paper leak of teacher recruitment examination allegedly to help school principal Ram Narayan Dwivedi’s daughter Akansha who was an aspirant. Police said Khare was wanted in the case registered against him under Public Examination Act, IPC 201 and 66 IT Act. The principal along with school clerk Ashok Tiwari were arrested by Special Task Force team earlier while the vice -principal and one other accused were on the run, police said. SHO of Kydganj police station Ramesh Chaubey said the vice principal was arrested from his home at LIG Colony in Shivkuti area on Wednesday. STF Prayagraj had in October arrested college principal Ram Narayan Dwivedi and clerk Ashok Tiwari who was accused of opening the sealed bundle of question papers, taking their photograph and then sending them to Dwivedi’s son Chotu aka Anugrah. Khare, police claimed, was present at the Bharat Scout and Guide Inter College examination centre for helping principal’s daughter through a solver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/school-vice-principal-held-for-aiding-exam-paper-leak-police-101637176017481.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Noida resident makes wedding wear ‘dream’ come true for the underprivileged||Come wedding season and all the would-be brides and grooms go all out with their near and dear ones to buy that one wedding outfit--shimmering with hues of gold and glittering with artificial stones---- that will make them look like a princess or prince ‘straight out of a fairy tale’ on their special day.While everyone tries to look like a “dream” on their wedding day, for many under privileged people, it is actually a ‘dream’ to wear such lavish clothes, which are out of their budget.  However, Anoop Khanna, a resident of Noida’s Sector 47, is now making their ‘dream’ come true with his wedding wear bank. Here, residents can donate their wedding dresses, which are then lent to the underprivileged for free for their wedding and are returned to the bank. With the wedding season underway, a number of men and women are making use of this unique wedding wear bank.Started in 2017 with one bridal dress, the bank today has 15 bridal lehengas and 20 sherwanis that are lent for free. Niharika Maheshwari, who earlier stayed in Noida, was the first to donate her bridal lehenga to the bank. “I did not want my bridal wear to go to waste sitting in my wardrobe. I felt it had become dead to me after my wedding and if it can be used to put life to a poor girl’s wedding, there will be nothing like it,” says Niharika, who has now moved to Delhi. Back then, her lehenga cost her around ₹70,000. Sector 51 residents Rahul Thakur and his wife also donated their wedding wear two years ago.“I read about the initiative on social media and decided to donate my wedding suit. My wife also liked the concept and donated her wedding dress. We had invested around ₹1 lakh in both the dresses but it was of no use to us anymore. It feels good to see that in the past two years, our dresses have been used for four weddings,” says Thakur, who works with a private firm.Khanna started the initiative out of his chemist shop in Ganga Shopping Complex in Sector 29.“In 2017, Niharika gave me this idea (of a wedding bank) when she donated her wedding dress to me asking me to use it for the wedding of a poor girl. Since then, the dress has been used for the wedding of three girls from nearby slums.It took me sometime to spread word about the initiative and it is only in the past one year that the initiative has become so popular among the people of Noida,” says Khanna.He says his shop also gives a choice to people to choose from different styles and colours. “If you decide to give a sari to your sweeper or domestic help, you are not giving them a choice of style, design or colour. They have to accept whatever you give them. However here, people have the option to choose,” says Khanna. However, there are some rules to borrow from the bank. Anyone who borrows the dresses has to return them back to Khanna after getting it dry-cleaned. But, how does he ensure the dresses loaned for free are not misused? Khanna says he has some rules in place to check this.“A person who borrows a dress from us cannot loan another one for the next 15 days. We always take a guarantee from the person borrowing the dresses by either taking their Aadhaar or ration card,” said the 60-year-old. However, no misuse has happened since Khanna started the initiative.After the pandemic, the bank was not much in use in 2020, said Khanna. “Last year, most people opted for low-key wedding celebrations. Hence, none of the dresses were borrowed. But this year, at least eight of the bridal lehengas have been booked. Most of these bookings are from women who are domestic helps, sanitation workers or small scale grocery vendors in the city” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-resident-makes-wedding-wear-dream-come-true-for-the-underprivileged-101637175896820.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC denies bail to man who helped gangster Fajja escape custody||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has denied bail to a man, arrested for allegedly helping an under trial gangster to escape from a hospital, saying that the conspiracy of helping the prisoner escape from the lawful judicial custody is of huge magnitude and could have serious effects on public safety and graver consequences on the society.Justice Subramonium Prasad said granting bail to the accused, at this juncture, has the potential to encourage “copycat criminal behavior” and dismissed the plea of accused Bhupender Singh alias Bhuttan.The high court said that an operation of this complexity, that is, to aid an undertrial of notorious credentials to escape lawful custody, has wide ramifications that may shake the confidence of the public in the police administration as well as the criminal justice system.The court noted that in this case around 10-12 persons were involved in the successful escape of gangster Kuldeep alias Fajja and two minors were made accomplices and abettors to the act of escaping the undertrial as they created chaos by throwing chilly powder in the eyes of the police personnel who were accompanying him.According to the prosecution, Singh was the one who took the undertrial on his scooty from Jaipur Golden Hospital to Rohini to a safe house for providing refuge to him.Fajja was encountered by the police after a high voltage gunfight. Singh was arrested on March 28.The judge said the contention of Singh’s counsel that the maximum punishment for the offences, he is charged with, is of no consequence as the gravity of the conspiracy to enable a dreaded gangster to escape from lawful custody has a greater bearing on this court while deciding this petition.“The evidentiary value of the disclosure statement and whether the petitioner (Singh) can be identified in the CCTV footage will be decided during the course of the trial. This court needs to bear in mind that the act was meticulously planned and swiftly implemented.“The conspiracy of helping Kuldeep alias Fajja escape from the lawful judicial custody is of huge magnitude which could have serious effects on public safety and graver consequences on society as a whole. To execute this conspiracy, it required skill, tact, and a high level of intricate planning and plotting,” the court said.It added that tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses also cannot be ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-denies-bail-to-man-who-helped-gangster-fajja-escape-custody-101637175776864.html
18-11-2021||Pune||15-yr-old boy, out with friends, drowns in Pune lake||Pune: A 15-year-old boy from Dhankawadi who had gone to celebrate birthday with nine of his friends drowned in a lake in Patharwadi near Bopdeo Ghat on Wednesday. The deceased, identified as Anish Tanaji Khedekar, stepped into the water along with his friend. When both of them started drowning, their friends got into the water and saved one of them. However, they could not save Anish and he drowned into deep waters. His friends informed the fire brigade which fished out his body around 11.30 pm. A case of accidental death has been lodged in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15yrold-boy-out-with-friends-drowns-in-pune-lake-101637175716813.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad await UP government’s directions on closure of schools||A decision to keep schools, colleges and educational institutions in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad closed will be taken once the state government issues directions in this regard, said officials from the two district administrations on Wednesday. A decision on the educational institutions was expected a day after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on late Tuesday issued directions for the closure of schools and colleges in the National Capital Region (NCR) till further orders in the wake of high pollution levels. District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas L Y issued an order on Wednesday evening stating that schools and colleges will remain closed till November 21. However, the order was rolled back late at night.“The order in the evening was issued in accordance with the directions given by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board. Since this order was withdrawn, our order automatically stands cancelled. A decision to close schools and colleges will be taken once we receive official communication from the state government,” said Suhas on late Wednesday night. Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate of Ghaziabad, also said there were no directions from the state government. “We are awaiting orders and will comply with the directions once received. As of now, there is no order and schools and colleges will open on Thursday,”said Kumar. On Tuesday, the CAQM directed that all private and government schools, colleges and educational institutions in NCR shall remained closed till further orders. Educationists said that the CAQM decision on the closure of schools in the wake of high pollution levels is unprecedented. “We have not received any official communication about closure of schools from the district administration yet. Initially, the closure of schools was due to the pandemic and it has affected studies since last year. Hence, the students have been away from physical classes for a long time . Now, it is the pollution levels which have led the CAQM to order for the closure of schools. This is surely going to affect students and their studies in the long run,” said Jyoti Gupta, director of Delhi Public School, Sahibabad. In absence of directions by the UP government, schools remained opened in Ghaziabad on Wednesday and is likely to remain open on Thursday as well. Schools in Gautam Budh Nagar remained open on Wednesday and principals say they did not receive any directions regarding closure of schools. “I read news reports about the directives issued by the CAQM but we have not received any formal communication from the authorities regarding closure of schools. We will be conducting classes as usual on Thursday as well,” said Chhavi Singh, principal at Government Girls Inter College in Badalpur, Gautam Budh Nagar. Aditi Basu Roy, principal of Grads International School, Greater Noida, and president of the All India Principals’ Association (Gautam Budh Nagar) said closure of schools at this time will adversely affect students’ studies. “The Class 10 and 12 boards are underway and we also have to complete syllabus for other classes and prepare students for exams. If schools are closed now, it will adversely affect studies as students have only recently regained momentum in grabbing concepts in physical classes, which was difficult in online classes that were held during the pandemic. While Classes 1 to 5 can manage, the studies of students in class 6 and above will be hampered if schools are closed,” she said. Members of parents’ associations expressed satisfaction with the CAQM decision. “The decision by CAQM is correct as high pollution levels can affect younger children. Children are yet to get Covid vaccination. So, it is better that they continue with online classes,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of the Ghaziabad Parents’ Association. Seizure of old vehicles a major enforcement issueDirections issued by the CAQM also included strict crackdown against diesel vehicles more than 10 years old and petrol vehicles more than 15 years old. Officials of state transport department said they will focus on enforcement but will face difficulty in getting land for dumping the seized vehicles. According to official estimates, the Ghaziabad transport region--comprising Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Bulandshahr--have an estimated six lakh diesel vehicles more than 10 years old and petrol vehicles more than 15 years old while the enforcement against these still lack sting. Officials did not disclose the seizures made till date but said they seized about 170 diesel vehicles, 67 petrol vehicles, 453 vehicles for not having pollution under control (PUC) certificates. It also issued 169 challans against vehicles caught overloading and another 90 vehicles, which were found carrying construction material in the open between November 10 and 15. Officials said most of the errant vehicle drivers were from Noida and Ghaziabad. “Both Noida and Ghaziabad are taken on priority basis, due to high levels of pollution. For dump yard, we have a space in Noida Sector-62. We are also trying if some space in Surajpur police line can be allocated for storage of seized vehicles. Likewise, we have also requested the Ghaziabad police to allow storage of seized vehicles at Harsaon police lines,” said Rajeev Srivastava, deputy transport commissioner, Uttar Pradesh. “The enforcement will continue.We have also asked for diversion of manpower and resources on priority basis to tackle erring vehicle drivers in both districts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-await-up-government-s-directions-on-closure-of-schools-101637175656738.html
18-11-2021||Other||Punjab deputy CM Soni meets Congress president Sonia Gandhi||Chandigarh Deputy chief minister OP Soni on Wednesday met Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi and discussed the present political scenario in Punjab. Soni had a 15-minute meeting with the party president during which he briefed her on the welfare initiatives and policy changes made by the state government for residents of urban areas and industry in the state, said sources. The deputy CM termed his meeting as a “courtesy call”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-deputy-cm-soni-meets-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-101637175539560.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Poll pitch intensifies as Akhilesh Yadav traverses Purvanchal Expressway during Samajwadi Vijay Yatra||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 341 km Purvanchal Expressway, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav traversed along the same Purvanchal Expressway on Wednesday after beginning his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra from Ghazipur in eastern Uttar Pradesh.PM Modi had landed in a C-130J Super Hercules aircraft at the emergency airstrip on the expressway in Sultanpur district for its inauguration on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the SP chief declared the BJP would be voted out of power in the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.A large crowd was witnessed as people, along with party workers, assembled at many points along the route of Vijay Rath Yatra to welcome Yadav and other leaders as the yatra passed along Mau, Azamgarh, Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Amethi and Barabanki on way to Lucknow. “Uttar Pradesh will witness a change in 2022 polls. I can see a wave of change,” said Yadav while addressing the people from atop the Vijay Rath.After reaching venue of his first meeting along the expressway at Haidariya in Ghazipur by helicopter, Yadav rode the rath to begin his journey to Lucknow, raising the pitch of his attacks on the BJP government. Akhilesh Yadav questioned the PM for inaugurating the incomplete project. He said the BJP was taking away the credit for the developmental projects conceived by the Samajwadi Party government.The SP’s move has evoked mixed reactions in political circles.“This is a reflection of the level of politics the Samajwadi Party has been pursuing over the years. Instead of indulging in such politics, Akhilesh Yadav should speak about the development of Uttar Pradesh,” said UP BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi.Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University, said, “UP’s politics has remained focused on castes. The political parties should focus more on development than on castes. The SP should have come out with a roadmap for further development instead of targeting the BJP and claiming credit for the Purvanchal Expressway project.”Videos released by the Samajwadi Party show the people showering garlands and flower petals on Akhilesh Yadav as he alights from a mechanically elevated platform atop the Vijay Rath.Akhilesh Yadav, who left Ghazipur at about 12.30 pm, reached Azamgarh at about 7.30pm, the Samajwadi Party said in a tweet. In another tweet, the SP said, “Azamgarh Ka Sandesh, Aa rahe hain Akhilesh” (Akhilesh will be voted to power. This is the message from Azamgarh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poll-pitch-intensifies-as-akhilesh-yadav-traverses-purvanchal-expressway-during-samajwadi-vijay-yatra-101637175537913.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP councillors suspended after ruckus at EDMC house meeting||New Delhi: The general body meeting of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) was disrupted on Wednesday after disagreement over over the topic of discussion by councillors, following which the mayor suspended all the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors for 15 days. Officials said that the AAP councillors wanted a discussion on rising dengue cases while the mayor and the BJP councillors were planning to start off with a discussion on pollution.“We were discussing air pollution problem in Delhi but the opposition members wanted to discuss dengue cases first. We had agreed to discuss dengue too but it is the chair’s (mayor) prerogative to decide the order in which discussions can take place,” said EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal. Officials said the house meeting was suspended thrice due to unruly behaviour by the councillors.The mayor alleged that the opposition councillors entered the well of the house and engaged in “uncivilised behaviour”. “A fight could have broken out between AAP and BJP councillors and we were forced to suspend the house proceedings three times,” he added.Manoj Kumar Tyagi, the leader of opposition and one of the 15 suspended members, said that the issue regarding the order of discussion on dengue and air pollution had been resolved after the house proceedings were suspended for the first time. “But a BJP councillor had used abusive language against one of the opposition members. So we entered the well and demanded the suspension of the BJP councillor, but the mayor insisted that the well of the house must be cleared first. So instead of suspending the member who broke the decorum, 15 AAP councillors have been suspended,” said Tyagi, calling the mayor’s behaviour “dictatorial”.Disruptions and ruckus is not uncommon in the EDMC’s general body meetings. Earlier, 20 AAP councillors were also suspended in last house meeting on September 27 this year for allegedly creating ruckus and disrupting the meeting. Several microphones and plastic screens meant for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour were also damaged during the proceedings at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiaapcouncillors-suspended-after-ruckus-at-edmc-house-meeting-101637175536759.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Noida’s first anti-smog tower along DND flyway becomes operational||The first anti-smog tower along the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway near Film City in Noida became operational on Wednesday.The 20-metre-tall anti-smog tower will cover an area of one square kilometre, and help mitigate air pollution during the winter season, said officials. Air pollution has reached toxic levels and filtration of the polluted air is the need of the hour, said Noida authority officials. Noida recorded an Air Quality Index reading of 345, in the “very poor” zone on Wednesday.“If this works out well then we can build more such towers to mitigate air pollution in the city,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority. Mahendra Nath Pandey, Union minister for heavy industries, Krishan Pal Gurjar, Union minister for state for power and heavy industries, local MP Dr Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, and other officials were present at the launch of this tower.“The tower will benefit the residents and the commuters who pass through this road,” said Pandey at the inauguration.Rupees 37 lakh will be spent on maintenance of this tower annually, said authority officials.They said the tower was built using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds arranged via the Central government’s public sector undertakings (PSUs). A budget of ₹2.5 crore was allocated for the project. The work on the ground started on September 25 this year after the Noida authority approved the project in its board meeting on September 24.The tower will clean the polluted air around it and release purified air, said officials. Equipped with intake and exhaust fans, the tower will initially run with the help of electricity. The authority, however, plans to run the tower with the help of solar energy later.Built on a green belt area of 400 square metres along the DND Flyway, the anti-smog tower will work at a filtration rate (the capacity of the tower to clean air per cubic metre) of 80,000 cubic metres per hour.The tower will help clean pollutants in the air in Noida sectors 15, 15A, 16, 16A (Film City), 17 and 19, among others. Nearly 100,000 commuters travel along the DND Flyway and the Delhi-Noida Expressway link road, and the installation of the tower will be beneficial for them too, said the authority officials.A machine fixed inside the tower will remove nearly 80% of the particulate matter i.e. PM2.5 and PM10 (which experts consider the primary pollutants in this region) in the air, and help bring down the pollution levels in the area, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-first-anti-smog-tower-along-dnd-flyway-becomes-operational-101637175416676.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||No stock at most liquor shops in Delhi as new excise regime faces teething issues||New Delhi: The “dry day”-like streak in Delhi continued on the first day of the new excise regime on Wednesday as new liquor vends could not start operations either due to the unavailability of liquor stock or because their premises were not ready. The uncertainty was evident even in restaurants and pubs over licenses and liquor supplies, the rules for which were changed with this notification of the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021-22. None of the shops in Mayur Vihar, Defence Colony, Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar, INA, Dwarka and Govindpuri opened on day one of the new system. “We could not open our stores today because we haven’t received our liquor stock. This is despite us getting a provisional license. We have no idea when we’ll get delivery of our order,” said Monu Bansal, manager of the four shops that will be coming up in east Delhi’s Star City and Galleria malls. Many residents too had to return empty-handed “It is like a dry day in Delhi today. I have a party at my home tomorrow and I went to at least four shops, but to no avail. The shops either have no stock of alcohol or are shut. The entire transition to the new excise rules seems to be poorly managed. I will have to go to Gurugram now to buy liquor,” said Tamanna Rastogi, a resident of Malviya Nagar. A senior excise official on condition of anonymity said the department is working on resolving the supply issue, but refused to comment any further. The new excise policy also has a number of changes in the way restaurants and bars can operate in the city. It allows the sale of liquor in bottles at restaurants and operates till 3 am. A major restaurateur in Delhi who is dealing with the government to resolve the issues cropping from the transition to the new regime said there is no clarity about most of the new rules. “Firstly, most of our restaurateurs are facing a lot of problems in getting the new licenses from the department. The department has only limited people and they are all primarily busy in issuing provisional licenses to the 850 odd private retail liquor vends in the city. Next, we have received no communication so far on when we can start operating till 3am and whether we can start serving liquor to those who are 21 years and above. A lot of things need clarification,” said the restaurateur on condition of anonymity. Officials of the excise department did not respond to these queries put up by HT. As per the new rules, restaurants and pubs in the city can serve liquor in open spaces, such as terrace, balcony, etc, inside their premises and can also have live music arrangements, such as performing bands, DJs, karaoke, etc, without hassle. It also allows microbreweries in the city to start takeaway service for draught beer, serve in events and sell directly to restaurants and pubs. However, no orders have been issued on this so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-stock-at-most-liquor-shops-in-delhi-as-new-excise-regime-faces-teething-issues-101637175357863.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Ahmednagar civil hospital fire: State govt cancels medical officer’s suspension||Pune: The state government has revoked the suspension order of a 27-year-old medical officer, who was arrested along with three nurses of the Ahmednagar civil hospital, in connection with the fire at the hospital’s ICU on November 6, acting civil surgeon Dr BK Ramteke confirmed. “Dr Vishakha Shinde she was a PG student and resident doctor, but not a permanent employee, so the state government has revoked her suspension,” said Dr Ramteke. “About other three nurses – one who was permanently suspended continues - while the other two who were working on a contractual basis their service has been terminated,” he said. The government formed a probe committee under divisional commissioner, Nashik range, to look into why firefighting systems were not in place at the hospital. The fire audit carried out in March this year had recommended installation of equipment in the hospital to deal with fire incidents. Meanwhile, according to the police, the death toll in the fire incident increased to 12, as a 60-year-old male patient died during treatment on Wednesday. The Ahmednagar police will also be recording the statement of Popatrao Pawar, sarpanch of Hirvebazar and recipient of the Padma Shri award, as he was present in the civil hospital when the fire incident broke out. Pawar was in hospital to give a sample for RT-PCR Covid-19 test, as he was due to go Delhi to receive his award. “When the fire broke out, I called up the fire brigade, informed the collector. He tried to help the fire brigade. Manoj Patil, superintendent of police, Ahmednagar had called to know exactly happened when the fire broke out. I told him about the chain of events, however, I have not yet been called officially to record my statement,” said Pawar. Sandip Mitke, deputy superintendent of Ahmednagar rural police, said, “We will be recording Pawar’s statement in the fire incident as he is one of the witnesses when the fire broke out at the ICU.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahmednagar-civil-hospital-fire-state-govt-cancels-medical-officer-s-suspension-101637175356712.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Novel mosquito repelling molecule synthesised by CSIR-NCL scientists||A team of researchers from the CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, has synthesised a potent molecule that helps repel adult female Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes which are vectors of debilitating and often fatal diseases such as dengue and chikungunya and also vectors of the Zika virus. During the Covid-19 pandemic, several states in India reported an alarming increase in dengue, chikungunya and Zika virus cases, putting an additional burden on already stretched healthcare facilities due to coronavirus.A research team led by Dr D S Reddy, currently the director of the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, Jammu, used the “silicon switch” approach to synthesise a library of compounds based on the DEET scaffold, which is the present-day’s gold-standard insect repellent. Out of the 25 compounds synthesised, one of the molecules offered longer duration of protection than DEET (N,N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide), suggesting that the incorporation of silicon improves efficacy. Results of this exciting study have been published in the journal ACS Omega.The lead authors of the paper, Dr Avalokiteswar Sen and Dr Srinivasa Reddy, are confident about the prospects of the findings. However, the identified molecule needs to undergo several studies, including long-term safety assessment, before it reaches the market. “The discussions are on with some leading companies to take forward this insect repellent molecule for further studies towards commercialisation. Twenty-five silicon-containing piperidines were synthesised, and the influence of silicon incorporation on insect repellency was investigated. One of the compounds showed better protection time than the gold-standard DEET and corresponding carbon analogs. The novel organosilicon mosquito repellents possess the potential to be developed as effective mosquito repellents,” said Dr Sen.“The main goal of this research was to understand the effect of silicon introduction on insect repellency. Since our previous research indicated that the replacement of C with Si improves potency and other pharmacokinetic parameters, 25,32 the 4,4- dimethyl-1,4-azasilinane part was kept constant while the other groups were varied,” said Dr Reddy.The research team included Akshay S Kulkarni, Remya Ramesh, Safal Walia, Shahebaz I Sayyad, Ganesh B Gathalkar, Seetharamsing Balamkundu, Manali Joshi, Avalokiteswar Sen, and Dr Srinivasa Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/novel-mosquito-repelling-molecule-synthesised-by-csir-ncl-scientists-101637175058287.html
18-11-2021||Pune||ASER 2021: Smartphone availability among students doubles in 3 yrs||Pune: The smartphone availability among children aged 6 to 14 years in Maharashtra has doubled in the past three years. However, the increase in numbers does not necessarily translate to an increase in access, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 released on Wednesday. A similar trend was seen across India. The report also reveals 9.2% rise in student enrolment in government schools in the 6-14 years of age group in Maharashtra in three years since 2018, as per ASER 2021. The proportion of children taking tuition, according to ASER, has increased from 2018 to 2021, regardless of grade, school type, or sex. Currently, almost 40% of children take paid private tuition classes across India. In Maharashtra, enrolled children taking tuition have also increased from 14.2 per cent in 2018 to 20.7 per cent in 2021. About smartphones, students in higher grades such as class 9 and above, as per the ASER report, were given more accessibility smartphones as compared to students from class one and two. “In 2018, 42.3% of children in government schools across Maharashtra had at least one smartphone at home. This proportion increased to 76.3% in 2020 and grew further to 85.5% in 2021. However, household economic status along with parents’ education level affects smartphone availability for students,” stated the report. Dinkar Temkar, state education director (primary), said that the accessibility has improved for students. “However, as schools are reopening now for higher standards, younger students will also have more access to smartphones to resume their studies. As we are going back to offline mode, we are trying to engage students in offline education and get them away from smartphones,” said Temkar. The report has also highlighted that as parents’ education level increases, the likelihood that every household has a smartphone also increases. “In 2021, over 80% of children in Maharashtra with parents who had studied at least till class 9 had a smartphone available at home, as compared to just over 50% of children whose parents had studied till class 5 or less. Notably, though, even among children with parents in the ‘low’ education category, over a quarter of households had bought a new smartphone for their children’s studies since the lockdown began in March 2020,” said the report The report was published by NGO Pratham and has evaluated all Indian states based on different parameters. The report states that the availability of smartphones in children’s homes has almost doubled from 2018 to 2021, regardless of school type. Speaking about the accessibility of smartphones, city-based education activist Mukund Kirdat said that in some pockets, smartphones are accessible for children, however, that may not be the case for most parts of Maharashtra. “Different regions face different issues. Pune district number clearly states that many students do not have access to smartphones at all. And even if they do, there are other siblings at home who need the phone. There is also a mobile network connectivity issue which affects the online education of the child,” said Kirdat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aser-2021-smartphone-availability-among-students-doubles-in-3-yrs-101637175056921.html
18-11-2021||Delhi||Ensure illegal hawkers do not return to Munirka area, HC tells police||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Delhi Police to conduct daily drives to ensure that unauthorised vendors and hawkers ousted from Munirka area do not return.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while hearing a plea by the Munirka Village residents’ welfare association seeking to remove squatters from the area, also asked the south Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to put up “no hawking” boards to indicate that squatting is not permitted in the area.“It is clear to us that the problem of continuous hawking and vending cannot be stopped as the unauthorised hawkers and vendors are stubborn and habituated. The menace can be solved by the police keeping a strict vigil through their beat constables and cordoning off the area where the vendors squat,” the court said.“We direct the Delhi Police to ensure that unauthorised hawkers and vendors do not return on a daily basis. The SDMC must put up boards declaring the area to be “no hawking. no vending”. The DCP shall be personally responsible for compliance,” the bench said further said. In its plea, the Munirka Village residents’ welfare association said hawkers have illegally occupied the road and pedestrian zones in and around Munirka Village and near the Munirka Metro station. The RWA representative also said incidents of snatching and harassment of women were common in the area due to crowding on footpaths.He told the court that they have written to all the authorities but no action has been taken.During the hearing, advocate Rishikesh Kumar, appearing for the police, told the court that drives are conducted at regular intervals but the vendors keep returning.To this, the court replied that orders have been passed by the Supreme Court stating that it is the responsibility of the police to remove unauthorised vendors from the area. It said there needs to be a different mechanism if the vendors keep returning, including barricading the area.The police counsel said they will formulate some mechanism to barricade the area and also find other solutions to the problem.“Please show some will and mark the entry and exit points to get the work done. It is not rocket science; you are not sending a rocket to Mars,” the court said.The court asked the authorities to conduct more drives and submit fresh status reports. The matter will be next heard on January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-illegal-hawkers-do-not-return-to-munirka-area-hc-tells-police-101637174996756.html
18-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body yet to procure all equipment needed to fight air pollution||Even as the air quality continues to oscillate between “ very poor” and “severe” levels in Ghaziabad, the city’s civic body is hamstrung by the lack of equipment needed to fight pollution, even though funds of ₹61.5 crore, for procuring these equipment, was sanctioned in December 2020 and in July this year, under the 15th finance commission. municipal officials in the know of the matter said Wednesday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin issued on Wednesday evening, Ghaziabad recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 361, in the “very poor” category. The AQI of Greater Noida was 362, while that of Noida was 356, both readings also falling in the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Authorities are scrambling to combat the air pollution crisis, with the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) widening the curbs across NCR late Tuesday. It extended the ban on construction and demolition activities, and also shut all schools in the NCR until further orders.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad municipal corporation is missing crucial equipment needed in its fight against pollution. The corporation was to get 30 big air filters — for being placed in public places— and six higher capacity anti-smog guns with a capacity of 6,000 litres each. The corporation refused to divulge details of machines it procured so far and only said that “about 60% of machines brought with the funds have arrived”.The fund of ₹61.5 crore was also to be utilised for revamp of 200 parks; conversion of 579 vehicles to CNG, the development of a city forest near the New Bus Adda Metro station and also for paving of dusty roads with greenery and stones, among other measures. “We have placed the work orders this July for all equipment that we need from the ₹61.5 crore funds that we got. Equipment for about 60% of the funds were delivered over the past two months and they are currently being deployed on the basis of a duty roster. The work order for the remaining equipment was issued this month. So, it is likely that we will get them only by December,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner, Ghaziabad. Last December, the corporation officials had said the plan will be implemented within six months and well before the onset of winter in 2021. “However, the pandemic caused delays in procurement and hampered the progress. But we are expediting the processes,” said a corporation official, asking not to be named. Environmentalists have decried the lackadaisical attitude of the civic body towards the current air emergency and said it has become a regular occurrence for the corporation to make plans, but not adhere to timelines, at least in Ghaziabad city. “The pollution levels have risen manifold this season and local sources of pollution have also come into play. It was easy to blame stubble burning until now, but the fire counts have reduced considerably in the past one week, but the pollution in the city has not. Now, the major share in pollution is from local sources such as vehicular and industrial emissions,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “What will be the use if these equipment arrive mid-winter, when residents have already suffered over a month of high pollution levels?” he said. The CAQM, while citing officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said the period between November 17 and 21 is likely to be unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. A forecast from the Union ministry of earth sciences’ System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) on Wednesday said, “From Nov 20th onwards, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality. The effective farm fire count is 2,643 and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 today is 6%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-yet-to-procure-all-equipment-needed-to-fight-air-pollution-101637174940709.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Three over ground workers held with ₹43 lakh||Three over ground workers, reportedly working for Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), have been arrested in Jammu’s Sidhra Bridge area with ₹43 lakh which they were transporting from Punjab to South Kashmir. They have been identified as Fayaz Ahmed Dar of Kulgam, Umar Farooq and Mouzam Fayaz of Pulwama. Jammu senior superintendent of police Chandan Kohli said acting on a reliable information that a consignment was being shifted to South Kashmir from Punjab, a special team was constituted under the supervision of Nagrota SDPO.“During checking at a naka in Nagrota area on Jammu-Srinagar national highway, a vehicle bearing registration number DL-1ZB-8261 was stopped for checking. The men travelling in the car were questioned about their movement, but they could not give satisfactory reply and on thorough search of their vehicle, two bags of cash were recovered,” he added. Jammu SSP also said that the money was being transported for terror funding and sources of these funds from outside J&K will also be booked shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-three-over-ground-workers-held-with-43-lakh-101637174939134.html
18-11-2021||Other||NIA files chargesheet against seven Khalistani terrorists||Mohali The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge-sheet against seven Khalistani terrorists, for their alleged involvement in threatening businessmen and extortion in Punjab in the special NIA court in Mohali. The chargesheet has been filed under sections of the IPC, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Arms Act, the official said, adding that charges have been abated against Pankaj Kumar of Faridkot on account of his death. The accused are Lovepreet Singh; Kamaljeet Sharma and Arshdeep Singh of Moga; Ram Singh of Ferozepur; Gagandeep Singh of Meerut; Mohammad Asif Ali of Meerut and Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Jalandhar. Arshdeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Nijjar are in Canada, an NIA official said. This case was registered in May this year after the Punjab Police received information that Arshdeep and Ramandeep, both currently abroad, had formed a gang and were threatening and extorting money from businessmen of the state, the official added.The NIA took over the case in June and unearthed the conspiracy hatched by Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Canada-based self-styled chief of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) and designated terrorist, in collusion with his associate Arshdeep for kidnapping and subsequently killing persons of other faiths to disturb communal harmony in Punjab, the NIA official said. Arshdeep was giving directions to members of his gang of terrorists based in Punjab, and was arranging weapons for them. He was also giving them targets to be eliminated in lieu of money and assurance of visa for living in Canada, the NIA official said, adding that investigation in the case was still continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-files-chargesheet-against-seven-khalistani-terrorists-101637174877773.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid death toll crosses 20k mark, as 13 more deaths added to total on Wednesday||PUNE With 13 more deaths added to the district’s Covid-19 death count the total case fatalities due to the infection crossed the 20,000 mark. As of Wednesday, Pune district reported 258 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,011 is the death toll and 2,882 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 33,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 107 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 366,857, and the death toll went up to 6,945, as nine more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 110 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 522,129 and the death toll went up at 9,208, as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 41 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,298 with the toll at 3,509 as two more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 33,168 vaccinations as per CoWin dashboard on Wednesday. Of the total of 12,525,459 doses, 79,52,529 are first doses and 45,72,930 are second doses. A total of 584 sites saw vaccinations of which 436 are government centres and 148 are private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-death-toll-crosses-20k-mark-as-13-more-deaths-added-to-total-on-wednesday-101637174756476.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Schools can fill SSC forms from Nov 18 to Dec 9: MSBSHSE||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Wednesday issued a notification stating that schools can start filling forms for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10 annual examination scheduled in 2022. The schools can fill the forms between November 18 and December 9.Dr Ashok Bhosale, secretary, MSBSHSE, said, “Schools will have to fill the forms for students through the Saral database. The online forms for SSC students can be accessed at www.mahahsscboard.in. Schools can avail the late fee option between December 20 and December 28 till 5 pm. Fee challans of schools can be downloaded between November 18 and December 30.” Schools can check the enrollment of students by downloading the prelist, he said.“All the students’ names and signatures should be checked and submitted to the board by the school,” Dr Bhosale added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-can-fill-ssc-forms-from-nov-18-to-dec-9-msbshse-101637174576507.html
18-11-2021||Pune||HC asks PMC, state to file say on Baner-Pashan link road delay||PUNE The Bombay High Court (HC) has asked the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the state government to file a response on the delay over the construction of the Baner Pashan link road. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Baner Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust (BPLRW), representing residents of the area, a bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, on Monday, issued the notice to the PMC. “The Bombay High Court has heard the PIL and taken cognisance of the issue of the incomplete 36 metre-wide Baner Pashan Link road. The High Court has passed an order to issue a notice to the PMC, the district collector, the Urban Development Department and Town Planning and the valuation department to file their response regarding the grevance of the petitioner, i.e, Baner Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust. The respondents have to file their response by 10.01.2022, when the matter will be heard again by the bench headed by Dipankar Datta,” said Satya Muley, the counsel appearing for the trust. The trust had approached the Bombay High Court in September 2021 as work is still incomplete 30 years after the road was sanctioned. When contacted, the PMC road department said they have not received the notice yet “We are happy with court decision and we are hopeful for justice,” said Rajendra Chuttar, president of the trust. He along with 2,000 families have been holding talks with the PMC for completion of the link road since 2014. HT first reported this issue in 2017.“The connectivity has been severely hampered due to incomplete roads with the most important being the 36-metre Baner-Pashan link road, from Wakeshwar chowk on Sus Pashan road to Rolling Hills chowk, as per the development plan (DP) of 1993. This road is pending due to a delay in land acquisition by the PMC. The road has been partially constructed in 2014 and is existing from both the ends, but two small stretches, collectively of 200 metres, are remaining incomplete rendering the entire 1.2km long road inutile. The existing alternative is a narrow 7m-wide road with incomplete footpaths, and no possibility of widening due to existing structures,” said Chuttar. Residents made several representations since 2014 to the PMC commissioners and several elected representatives. They have even conducted lawful silent protests on several occasions, sans any positive result. The PMC authorities have remained non-committal as to when the road will be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hc-asks-pmc-state-to-file-say-on-baner-pashan-link-road-delay-101637174516791.html
18-11-2021||Other||Women found dead in Barnala tubewell; husband booked||Barnala A 26-year-old woman was found murdered by drowning, allegedly by her husband, at a water tank near the tube-well in Dhaula village of Barnala district on Wednesday. The victim, Virpal Kaur, worked at a private factory in Dhaula and was living separately from her husband, Mangal Singh of Dhaula village. The couple have two children and had been married for eight years. Police claim accused Mangal is absconding.Virpal’s mother, Jasvir Kaur, and brother Jaggi Singh alleged that when she was returning from the factory around 6 am, the accused met her and asked for a joint prayer at a tomb in fields. “He wanted to drown her and killed her,” they claimed, adding, “A few years back she decided to stay separate but Mangal took her both children with him. We want justice,” she added.Rureke Kalan station house officer Sukhwinder Singh said police have booked Mangal under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, and investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-found-dead-in-barnala-tubewell-husband-booked-101637174396506.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Pune civic chief to introduce five year plan model for city’s development||PUNE: To avoid diversion of funds, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has decided to introduce five year plans for every department for holistic development of the city. He has decided to prepare an outcome budget for the upcoming 2022-23 annual budget. Kumar acknowledged that the diversion of funds has affected development of the city by creating liabilities and putting pressure on the upcoming annual budget.The commissioner’s move is inspired by the launch of India’s first five year plan in 1951, which mainly focused on the development of the primary sector. Kumar has prepared a roadmap for the budget, introducing the concept of five year plans for each department. He has issued an order to this effect and given detailed instructions to all departments. He has directed that provision be made for committee work (mentioned in last year’s budget) in next year’s budget. For the outcome budget, each department head will set key measurement (quantitative and qualitative) indicators and prepare a presentation.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that a majority of funds for big projects are carried forward or diverted into non-priority works owing to lack of land for big projects. Therefore, the commissioner has instructed all department heads to include environment assessment and PMC-acquired land points before introducing and allocating funds for development projects.Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “The commissioner has introduced a new concept in next year’s budget preparation. It will help the development of the city in a planned manner. Plan and non-plan work will give an exact idea of financial provision for particular works or development projects. It will put brakes on the practice of diversion of funds into non-plan development works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-chief-to-introduce-five-year-plan-model-for-city-s-development-101637174336843.html
18-11-2021||Pune||Speeding BMW car hits road divider in Pune, driver injured||Pune: A BMW car dashed the road divider of the DP road at Mhatre bridge on Wednesday night. Two occupants of the car broke the windshield and came out of the vehicle, while the third passenger, who was injured, had to be rescued by the fire brigade. According to the fire brigade officials, the accident took place around 2.30 am and the rescue operations were finished around 3.30 am. Officer Rajesh Jagtap of Erandwane fire station said that the fire department received a call regarding the accident at 2.42 am. “The speeding car coming from Rajaram bridge hit the divider near Shubharambh lawns. While one passenger got stuck in the car, two other co-passengers came out after breaking the windshield. We rescued the passenger who was stuck behind the steering wheel by using cutters and other tools to cut the metal rods,” Jagtap said. Alankar police station officials said the passengers were sent to hospital for preliminary medical treatment and later discharged. A non-cognisable case has been lodged, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/speeding-bmw-car-hits-road-divider-in-pune-driver-injured-101637174038483.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||All India Presiding Officers’ Conference: Agnihotri draws attention to declining legislative values||Drawing attention to the dilapidation in the legislative values and practices, leader of Opposition in Himachal Pradesh assembly Mukesh Agnihotri on Wednesday stressed on the need to preserve the parliamentary decorum and highest traditions. He was speaking at the All India Presiding Officers’ Conference at Shimla. Addressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Agnihotri said no doubt that the presiding officers come from political parties, but this is the speciality of Indian democracy that they don’t have any party. “All the responsibilities of democracy within the House rest on the discretion of the presiding officers. Democracy runs on traditions and beliefs, so there is a need to look into the challenges and concerns being faced by them today,” he added.He also spoke about growing malpractice of hiding information from the house of legislatures. He said that anti-defection has become a law, but there are many misconceptions about it. Many cases are pending in courts which puts Indian democracy in the dock, he added.HP Congress to launch mega membership drive on Indira Gandhi’s birth anniversaryHimachal Congress will launch a mega membership drive on November 19, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in the run up to 2022 general assembly elections in the state, HPCC chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said on Wednesday.Addressing a press conference here, Rathore said the exercise has not been conducted for last more than six years. Congress workers will be engaged in membership drive at booth level which will run for next three months, he added.He said the Congress has drawn a roadmap for the 2022 elections besides a campaign to expose the government’s propaganda. I am holding foot march in 22 assembly constituencies and have seen a good response.He said the Congress has launched a ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ under which its leaders are going among the public to make them aware of the failures of the government.“Today, every section of the society, be it youth, women, employees, farmers or Dalits, is facing repression under the current regime and wants to get rid of the BJP government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-india-presiding-officers-conference-agnihotri-draws-attention-to-declining-legislative-values-101637173376218.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh inaugurates Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv in Jhansi||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday inaugurated the three-day Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv in Jhansi and said Rani Laxmi Bai’s contribution to the freedom struggle is unmatched. He also noted that women’s role in the armed forces is increasing ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has come to power.Rajnath Singh was in Jhansi where the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv is part of the ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate and launch several new initiatives of the Ministry of Defence to the nation in a grand ceremony being organised in the precincts of Jhansi Fort on the final day of the event on November 19, also the birth anniversary of Rani Laxmi Bai of Jhansi. The Ministry of Defence has organised the three-day Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv jointly with the Uttar Pradesh government.“She lost her everything at a young age, but not her self-respect and honour. This was ingrained in her, putting her on the pinnacle of bravery. Her heroism gave a new dimension to the power of women, which she, in fact, reawakened,” Rajnath Singh said.He said being a woman was never a hindrance for her in the battlefield.“Many think women are weak, they should learn from freedom fighters like Laxmi Bai, Avanti Bai, Jhalkari Bai who showed unparalleled bravery on the battlefield,” he said.He mentioned that Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose named one of the Indian National Army (NA) regiments after Laxmi Bai.“Netaji believed the freedom struggle was incomplete without the participation of women who account for half the population,” the defence minister said.Post independence, women did not have the right participation in the defence forces, he said, adding that things were changing now.“Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken over, the participation of women is increasing in every force,” he said.“The army has opened the doors for women. We have increased their numbers in three wings of the defence forces,” Rajnath Singh said.The girls, Rajnath Singh said, were getting admission in Sainik Schools while the portals of the National Defence Academy have been opened for them.“You will be surprised to know two lakh girls in the country have appeared for admission in NDA,” he said.Rajnath Singh said the country has progressed rapidly on the path of self- reliance under this government.With the joint efforts of government and the industry the goal of Make in India would not only be achieved but also “Make for the World”, he said. “This is an important resolution related to defence, we will accomplish this,” he said.He lauded chief minister Yogi Adityanath for maintenance of law and order in the state. The goons and mafias have either fled the state or they have given up crime, he added.About the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv, Rajnath Singh said, “It connects us with the pride of India and the struggle for the independence of the country. Rani Laxmi Bai’s bravery and sacrifice are associated with every part of Jhansi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rajanath-singh-inaugurates-rashtra-raksha-samarpan-parv-in-jhansi-101637170196065.html
18-11-2021||Lucknow||Four SP MLCs join BJP ahead of 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Political poaching escalated ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday winning over four Samajwadi Party (SP) MLCs (members of legislative council ) to its fold. Soon after the joining, UP BJP vice president Daya Shankar Singh, a member of the party’s joining committee, said that two dozen opposition lawmakers waiting to walk into the BJP camp soon.Earlier this month, the SP had won over BJP’s OBC lawmaker Rakesh Rathore. The BJP had quickly hit back by getting SP’s Dalit lawmaker Subhash Pasi to join the party in the run-up to the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh welcomed the four SP MLCs: Ravi Shankar Singh aka Pappu Bhaiya, Narendra Singh Bhati, CP Chand and Rama Niranjan. He told them to bring their “friends” in the SP also to the BJP. The Samajwadi Party currently dominates the 100-member upper house of the state legislature. The SP leads the house with 48 MLCs followed by the BJP’s 36 while the BSP (6), Congress (2) and Apna Dal (1) also figure there along with independents (3), teachers’ group MLCs (2) and independent groups (2). The term of 35 MLCs is set to end on March 7, 2022, and BJP leaders said many of those joining the party now, would be fielded for local body MLC seats when the elections are called. “We have closed the gap in the legislative council with the SP and, very soon, we would lead in the upper house too,” said UP BJP MLC and party’s state vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak. Ravi Shankar Singh, SP MLC and grandson of former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, said he had made up his mind to leave the party ever since Chandra Shekhar’s son Neeraj Shekhar was denied the ticket from the Ballia Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 polls. Ballia has been the traditional Lok Sabha seat of Chandra Shekhar who represented it 10 times while Neeraj won the seat in the 2008 by-polls and the 2009 Lok Sabha elections. When asked if the SP-SBSP pact would have any impact on eastern UP, where the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has been drawing impressive crowds, Singh said, “SBSP won’t have any impact anywhere. After inking a pact with the BJP in 2017 UP polls, Rajbhar did little except strengthening himself.”UP BJP leader Daya Shankar Singh said, “We speak to Om Prakash Rajbhar (SBSP chief) and no one knows where he will go.” “We will have a joining almost every other day as there is a long queue of leaders wanting to join us. The joining will be done at various levels, at regional level, state level and several leaders would be joining in Delhi too,” Daya Shankar said. The BJP has set up a joining committee to vet new inductions. The committee comprises veterans and is headed by former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpai with deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and Daya Shankar as members.Reacting to the poaching of its MLCs, SP leader IP Singh said: “BJP has little to call its own. They have appropriated leaders from other parties. But now even this tactic won’t work as people are waiting to vote them out.”“By the way, there are many in the BJP waiting to join us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-sp-mlcs-join-bjp-ahead-of-2022-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101637166055662.html
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||24-year-old biker killed in hit-and-run crash in Ludhiana||An unidentified person was booked after a 24-year-old biker was killed in a hit-and-run incident near Lakhowal village on Wednesday. The victim’s father, Shakeel of Raiya village, said the incident took place on November 14 when his son, Mohammad Akbar Tomar, was returning from Kohara village on a motorcycle, after purchasing some goods, with a friend. In his complaint Shakeel stated that the incident took place on November 14 when his son identified as Mohammad Akbar Tomar along with his friend was riding on a motorcycle and was returning from Kohara after buying goods.“When they reached near Lakhowal village, a speeding white i20 Hyundai car with the registration number PB 10 DM 1800, rammed into their motorcycle. My son sustained fatal head injuries in the mishap,” the complainant told the police. He was rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical and Research, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries on November 15 (Monday). A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) , 337 (negligent act endangering human life), 338 ( causing grievous hurt), 427 (damages), and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Investigating officer Baldev Singh said raids are being carried out to arrest the hit-and-run driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24yearold-biker-killed-in-hit-and-run-crash-101637150798286.html
