19-11-2021||Lucknow||Sixth Zika virus case in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The sixth Zika virus case was reported in Lucknow on Friday. The patient, according to the health department, is a resident of the city’s Safdalbagh area. “This is the first case of Zika virus that was tracked with the help of surveillance by health teams. The previous five cases had tested positive for Zika when they reached hospitals for fever or other illnesses,” said a senior health official. Sample of the sixth patient, a 39-year-old woman was taken on November 17 and tested at the King George’s Medical University. Samples of four close family contacts of the sixth patient were taken for test. Health teams visited different areas from where earlier cases were reported and conducted screening of residents. The teams visited 842 homes in Safdalbagh and screened 3519 residents and took samples of two suspects . At Phoolbagh 331 houses were visited and 1615 people screened, in Sambhalkheda 100 homes were visited by and 426 people screened, in LDA colony 2888 houses were visited and 8664 people screened and three samples were taken while in Azad Nagar 2256 houses were visited and 4512 people screened. Here 5 samples were taken. The samples will be tested at King George’s Medical University. “Source of both Zika virus and dengue is the bite of an infected mosquito. Hence the focus should be on avoiding mosquito bite by eliminating source of mosquito breeding,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Reports of 59 samples taken earlier tested negative for Zika virus. Meanwhile, Lucknow reported 14 fresh dengue cases from different areas on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sixth-zika-virus-case-in-lucknow-101637346555196.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||UPPCB notices to 18 Lucknow industrial units for violating pollution norms||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Thursday issued notices to 18 industrial units of Lucknow and the nearby districts for allegedly violating air pollution control norms. This is the second time the board has issued notices to industrial units in November.The notices are part of the decision to implement Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) across the state to reduce air pollution in accordance with the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. GRAP refers to strict curbs on activities causing air pollution and measures to improve air quality.“These industrial units were found to be conducting industrial work without adhering to guidelines. The units have also been asked to explain their action or face monetary fines,” said Ram Karan, regional officer, UPPCB. Most of the 18 units are in Lucknow while the rest are in Sitapur and Barabanki districts. “Earlier this month , we issued notices to 12 other industries in the region. We have received a response from 8. The responses are being looked into. A 30-day period is usually provided to submit a response,” the officer added.The action is in line with the efforts of UPPCB to contain the worsening air quality of Lucknow and nearby districts. The air quality (AQI) of Lucknow is over 200 that is considered as poor.“Particulate pollution caused by illegal industrial work is a major contributor to worsening AQI. We are trying to limit this so that the air quality remains good even after the monsoon,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcb-notices-to-18-lucknow-industrial-units-for-violating-pollution-norms-101637346371295.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder: Defence cross examines police witness||PUNE The defence counsel in the murder case of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, on Friday, cross examined witness Shyam Nivrutti Marne before the special court of additional sessions Judge S R Navandar. Marne was present at the crime spot on Omkareshwar Bridge after the assassination of Dabholkar around 9 am on August 20, 2013.Three defence lawyers conducted a detailed cross examination during the morning and evening sessions of the court. Marne, who runs a food stall for the past four years is also a member of the Deccan Police Station peace committee. During his cross examination by advocate Prakash Silsingikar, Marne was asked whether he met CBI official D S Chavan on July 4, 2014, and whether his statement was recorded by the agency, and whether he and witness Rahul Chitale signed the panchnama drafted by the CBI. Marne replied in the negative. Earlier, the prosecution showed him several articles including four bullets, two ‘live’ and two empty cartridges, spectacles and slippers of Dabholkar, which he identified. Marne also said that he had read the panchnama prepared by Deccan Police before signing the same. Marne said that it was incorrect to say that he had signed on blank papers and that he was a false witness in the case. CBI special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi asked Marne about what happened on the day of the murder, to which he replied that he saw broken spectacles, slippers and blood on the footpath.The next hearing is scheduled on November 27. The CBI took over the case probe from the Pune city police in 2014, and has so far charge-sheeted five accused, all of them allegedly linked to Sanatan Sanstha. These include ENT surgeon Dr Tawade, two alleged assailants Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar, Mumbai-based lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar and his aide Vikram Bhave, who were arrested at different times between 2016 and 2019. Of these, Tawade, Andure and Kalaskar are currently in jail, while Punalekar and Bhave are out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-defence-cross-examines-police-witness-101637345892990.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||On Kartik Purnima, devotees take holy dip in Saryu in Ayodhya||Lucknow: A large number of devotees took a holy dip in river Saryu in Ayodhya on the occasion of Kartik Purnima on Friday, the first big religious congregation in the temple town in the last two years since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. Devotees not only from Ayodhya but also from adjoining districts began flocking to the ghats on the banks of river Saryu since Friday morning. A large number of devotees from far off places reached Ayodhya a day earlier and camped in the city overnight to take a holy dip in the river as the sun rose across the horizon on Friday morning. As the day progressed, devotees walked towards the Ram Janmabhoomi complex to pay obeisance to Lord Ram. Devotees were also eager to witness the ongoing construction work of Ram temple. All temples and Maths in Ayodhya were also decked up for the festive occasion. Devotees also turned up at Hanuman Garhi to pay obeisance to Lord Ram. “Along with my family, I reached Ayodhya on Thursday evening. We camped in the city to make sure to take a dip in Saryu at the day-break,” said Raman Kashyap, 55. The Ayodhya administration had made high security arrangements in view of the huge turnout of devotees. Cops were deployed at all prominent temples and Maths. Sri Bharat Yatra The 48th Sri Bharat Yatra started from Mani Ram Das Chhavni in Ayodhya on Friday for Chitrakoot. For the last two years, the yatra was suspended due to the pandemic. It is expected to reach Chitrakoot on November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/on-kartik-purnima-devotees-take-holy-dip-in-saryu-in-ayodhya-101637345891532.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to withdraw farm laws in winter session||The Maharashtra government will repeal the farm laws that were tabled in the monsoon session to negate the three controversial laws, which were rolled back by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The state government is expected to withdraw them in the ensuing winter session.Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said that since the original laws have been repealed, there is no need to pass the bills. “The decision will be taken in a meeting of group of ministers, headed by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,” he stated.Meanwhile, farmer unions are also of the opinion that the bills introduced should be withdrawn. “The bills are just milder versions of the central laws and we had objected to them. It allowed the price below MSP with mutual consent and non-lifting of the produce was not part of the harassment definition. We objected to the power the government had in terms of essential commodities. They should now be immediately withdrawn,” said Ajit Nawale, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha.Maharashtra Agriculture Minister Dadaji Bhuse said that the decision would be taken by the ministerial committee. “We may say that the bills have no relevance now. Maharashtra government had in the past taken decisions and amended laws related to the marketing of agricultural produce,” he added. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government-led Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray introduced three bills to counter the controversial central laws amid the farmers’ protest. The bills had the provisions for higher MSP for produce in farming agreement with traders, timely payment of dues, three-year jail term and ₹5 lakh fine or both for harassment of farmers. It has the provision to give power to the state to regulate and prohibit production, supply, distribution and impose stock limits of essential commodities.After the laws- Essential Commodities (Amendment), Farmers (Empowerment and Protection), Guarantee Price; Agriculture Related Agreements (Maharashtra Amendment) and Amendments to Central Government Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation)- were tabled in both the houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-withdraw-farm-laws-in-winter-session-101637345832446.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Girish Bapat condemns BJP supporter for using foul language against Sharad Pawar on social media||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat has publicly condemned one of its party supporters who used foul language against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on social media. Bapat issued the statement and condemned the use of words to speak anything against political leaders. Bapat said, “I am in public life for more than 40 years and have always followed principles. Political differences are always accepted and welcomed, but making personal attacks on national leaders is wrong and I condemn it.” The senior BJP leader said, “While making allegations against the state and national-level leaders, citizens should first seek the facts. BJP’s national and state-level leadership will address the Opposition and party workers should not level allegations against national-level leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/girish-bapat-condemns-bjp-supporter-for-using-foul-language-against-sharad-pawar-on-social-media-101637345711279.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede runs bar, hid info from department, alleges Nawab Malik||In another set of allegations, Maharashtra NCP Minister Nawab Malik claimed that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede violated Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1964 by conducting business despite being in service.He said that Wankhede holds a hotel liquor licence since 1997-98 and runs a bar in Navi Mumbai. He added that the licence was issued when he was a minor in 1997-98, which again is illegal. “It was issued when his father Dnyandeo Wankhede was in the state excise department. He concealed this information while joining the central government services. Only in 2017, Wankhede declared that he owns the inherited property along with his father,” he alleged. Refuting the claims, Wankhede said that he had furnished all details of his properties to his department. “We have nothing to conceal. I have furnished all the details right from the properties I own and income clearly with my department since the day I joined the civil services,” he said.To corroborate his claims, Malik showed a document, that states that a liquor license was issued in the name of Sameer Dnyandev Wankhede on October 29, 1997. The documents further showed that the license was renewed every year.The NCP leader added that he will file a complaint with the department of personnel and training (DoPT), the state excise department and with all the concerned departments. “It is a clear case of forgery. For the last 24 years, the business has been operated on that license. The information was concealed,” he claimed. “In 2017, he shared false information with the central government that the hotel property, which he owns along with his father, is on lease. I have also given one of my properties on lease to a hotel operator and all the licenses required for operation are in the name of the operator. I can provide the land on lease, but the license for conducting business will have to be obtained only by the operator,” Malik said and added that Wakhende has no right to remain in service.A person from the Wankhede family said that Wakhende’s father looks after the business. “The hotel was bought by Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano in 1995 and she included him as joint owner of the property. He was a minor then. She looked after the business till 2015 and after her death, his father was made joint owner,” said the family member under conditions of anonymity. Malik has been levelling a series of charges against Wankhede, which have been refuted by the NCB officer. Malik had also alleged that Wankhede is a Muslim, but secured the IRS (Indian Revenue Service) job in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, using his father’s old identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-runs-bar-hid-info-from-department-alleges-nawab-malik-101637345531217.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||UP RLD hails repeal of agricultural laws as victory of farmers’ struggle||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on repeal of the three controversial agricultural laws as the victory of farmers’ struggle and the party’s unflinching and active support to the movement. “The government had to buckle down when it failed to crush the spirit of farmers who braved the vagaries of nature sitting under the open sky for 350 days,” RLD leader Anupam Mishra said. BJP leaders, he said, insulted the farmers and called them terrorists, traitors, goons, miscreants and authorities tortured them in various ways but all this could not break their spirit. Another senior RLD leader Anil Dubey said the government was forced to withdraw the ‘black’ laws after RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary’s rallies in support of farmers started drawing huge crowds. He demanded the government to immediately convene the special session of the Parliament to officially repeal the three laws. “Additionally, the government must render a public apology to farmers for calling them names,” Dubey demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-rld-hails-repeal-of-agricultural-laws-as-victory-of-farmers-struggle-101637345414751.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Precision medicine division to start at Lucknow’s KGMU||Patients at the King George’s Medical University can now benefit from precision medication as the Centre for Advanced Research (CFAR) has initiated steps to start the precision medicine division.“Precision medicine, in simple terms, is giving medicine doses as per the body condition of the patient and also according to the impact of the illness on the body. Currently, medicines are prescribed based on a common formula for all the patients,” said Prof AK Tripathi, HoD clinical haematology and CFAR, KGMU.The CFAR organised a day-long symposium on ‘Precision and personalised medicine’, which had several speakers, including Prof Shally Awasthy, Prof Amita Pandey (both of KGMU), Dr K Thangaraj, director, centre for DNA fingerprinting and diagnostics, Hyderabad.Precision medicine works separately for each patient and is a mix of precise and personalised drugs, he said. The decision of medication is taken based on age, sex, gene, quality of life and social status.Prof Tripathi said that precision medicine shall first focus on cancer patients, and ovarian cancer shall be the first disease that will be worked on. “We shall hold a meeting to find out which disease has the poor success rate and then will work on that. We can take two or three diseases at a time,” said Prof Tripathi.Dr Shailendra Saxena of the CFAR said that not only in treatment but also in vaccine manufacturing, precision medicine is helpful. The programme was coordinated by Dr Rashmi Kushwaha and Dr SP Verma gave the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/precision-medicine-division-to-start-at-lucknow-s-kgmu-101637345351383.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||MSRTC strike enters 19th day: Commuters bear the brunt||Aroosa AhmedThousands of people residing in rural Maharashtra bore the brunt as employees of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) continued their protest for the 19th day on Friday. As private bus operators capitalised on the strike, people who travel regularly on the Mumbai-Pune route also paid the price. For the ease of commuters, the MSRTC managed to operate less than one per cent of its buses from November 12. 131 buses were on the road on Friday and 3,517 passengers availed the services. Due to the limited number of transport options available, the residents of the interior parts of the state are shelling out double the amount they normally would. Meanwhile, as a disciplinary action, the MSRTC on Friday terminated 238 daily wage earners and suspended 297 employees. The total number of employees suspended so far is 2,776. Employees who continue to be on strike said that they have no other option left. “I have a family of six people, and I am the sole earner. My salary is Rs.15,000, which was also delayed throughout last year. The employees are suffering a lot and nobody is doing anything,” said Abhijit Dhamle, a driver at the Satara bus depot.The Maharashtra government has formed a three-member committee to look into the demands of the employees that include merger of the MSRTC with the state government, increase in salary, dearness and housing allowances.State Transport Minister Anil Parab had earlier asked the employees to return to work and has now stated that other options including privatisation of the corporation, is possible.“We have not decided on privatisation of MSRTC but it is our responsibility to operate bus services. We have kept all our options open as we do not want the commuters to suffer,” said Parab.However, the MSRTC unions alleged, “The privatisation agenda has always been there. It is more important now to make the MSRTC employees state government employees. We will continue the agitation till the demands are met,” said Shashank Rao, coordinator, Sangharsh ST Kamgar Union.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the government over the issue. “The issues of employees need to be addressed first and then privatisation of the corporation can be talked about. Anil Parab is a son of a worker and should look into the issue,” said Prasad Lad, vice president of Maharashtra BJP. Senior citizens travelling for medical purposes are not able to find vehicles as well. “We wanted to commute for our regular diabetes check-ups. MSRTC buses charge Rs. 50 with the senior citizen concession. As the charges of private vehicles are exorbitant, senior citizens, who want to visit hospitals are going as a group and dividing the charges,” said Komal Yevle, a 62-year-old resident of Kopar Khairane in Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msrtc-strike-enters-19th-day-commuters-bear-the-brunt-101637344931288.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Nine of 11 dairies shifted out of civic limits: LMC informs Allahabad HC bench||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has apprised the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court that nine out of total eleven dairies have been removed from the municipal limits of the state capital. Two could not be shifted due to non-availability of police force, it said. A division bench of justice Ramesh Sinha and justice Vivek Varma on November 16 heard a petition filed by Sarthak Prayas Sewa Sansthan, a non-government organisation, of Lucknow.The petition was filed in 2011 and thereafter subsequent hearings have taken place. The high court on March 14, 2012 had issued an order for shifting of dairies from municipal limits of Lucknow. During the hearing of the case, counsel for the petitioner (Sarthak Prayas Sewa Sansthan) said out of 11 dairies nine had been removed in compliance with the high court’s order. However, two dairies in Manak Nagar area were still there, the petitioner’s counsel said. Counsel for the Lucknow Municipal Corporation apprised the court that the station house officer of Manak Nagar police station did not provide a police force for removal of the two dairies. At this, state government’s counsel assured the court that as and when the police force was requested, it would be provided.Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s counsel assured the court that he would seek instructions in the matter and would also ensure that appropriate steps were taken for removal of the remaining two dairies in compliance with the high court’s order of March 14, 2012. The court fixed December 1 as next date for hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nine-of-11-dairies-shifted-out-of-civic-limits-lmc-informs-allahabad-hc-bench-101637344871158.html
19-11-2021||Pune||APMC rolls back hike in parking charges at Market Yard in Pune||After opposition from various organisations and unions, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) has taken back its decision in increasing parking fees for three-wheelers and goods’ vehicles at Market Yard market. A meeting was held between APMC officials and members of various organisations on Friday, after which the fee increase was rolled back. APMC Pune had increased charging parking fees for three-wheelers to Rs50 and for goods’ vehicles to ₹100, to avoid unwanted vehicles being parked inside Market Yard. Traders, btokers and drivers threatened to go on strike over the increase.“We had a fruitful meeting with APMC officials and after discussions, parking charges were rolled back. So we are not going to go on strike or close the market on Sunday,” said Vilas Bhujbal, leader of the association of traders and commission agents at Market Yard. “Some nominal parking charges will be taken by the vehicles. It will be decided at the next meeting which will be held next Thursday and primary approval to this decision has been given by everyone, including union members,” said Pune APMC chairman Madhukant Garad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/apmc-rolls-back-hike-in-parking-charges-at-market-yard-in-pune-101637344811388.html
19-11-2021||Other||BSP’s Satish Mishra hosts seers in Vrindavan||After chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it was the turn of BSP general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Satish Mishra to host seers in Vrindavan on Friday. Mishra had ‘bhojan prasad’ (food) after feeding the seers in Vrindavan on Friday. The BSP general secretary said that life is worthless without the ‘ashirwad’ (blessings) of the seers. The BSP general secretary reached Vrindavan on Friday and sought the blessings of the seers. Thereafter, he had ‘bhojan prasad’ with around 1000 seers. He was accompanied by former minister in state and former BSP MLA Shyam Sundar Sharma. “I have not come here for any politics. I am here for seeking blessings from the seers. I seek blessings of Thakur Bankey Behari, and Vrindavan, the seat of ‘Thakurji’, always inspires to do something new,” said Mishra.“It was during the reign of BSP, in the state, that projects worth crores were undertaken in Vrindavan, but thereafter there seems to be no sign of development. It was planned development undertaken by the BSP government by laying sewer lines, roads, electricity lines, widow ashram etc... BSP worked for providing ‘state fair’ status to Mudiya Poono Mela at Govardhan,” added Mishra. Mishra focussed on the Brahmin community and said they deserve respect. He assured safety and security to ‘sevayat’ (priests serving at temples) and was critical about the closing of Sanskrit schools due to lack of funds. He assured to re-start Sanskrit schools once BSP comes to power. Mishra termed the withdrawal of three farm laws as an ‘election stunt’ in wake of assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. “Yet the government in the centre is praising three farm laws, and actual results would come after elections,” said Mishra. “We would strengthen the movement to save cows and would also constitute a commission for the safety of seers,” promised Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsps-satish-mishra-hosts-seers-in-vrindavan-101637344692687.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Indira Marathon: Army’s Valliappa, Gujarat’s Nirmaben bag top spots||New winners took top positions in the 36th edition of All-India Indira Gandhi Prize Money Marathon held at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium of Sangam city on Friday. In the men’s category, Army’s AB Valliappa (chest number 1202) bagged the first place finishing the run with a timing of 2:20:53 while army runner Anil Kumar Singh (chest number 1217) of Prayagraj stood second finishing the run in 2:22:08 and Hetram (chest number 1204) of army and hailing from Himachal Pradesh grabbed the third position with a timing of 2:23:12. All three runners are from the Army Sports Institute, Pune. Hetram had finished third in this marathon held in 2019 as well. Belonging to the Dogra Regiment, Hetram is posted in Nashik. By winning the marathon in the men’s category, Valliappa won ₹2 lakh as prize money. First runner-up Anil Singh got ₹1 lakh while second runner-up Hetram won ₹75, 000. The prize money was same for the women runners too. In the women’s category, Nirmaben Bharatjee Thakur (chest number 3012) of Hajipur, Gujarat secured the first position with a timing of 2:50:41, Arti Patil of Army Sports Institute-Pune (chest number 3044) came in second clocking 2:55:29 while Tamshi Singh (chest number 3032) of Mirzapur, UP, bagged the third place with a timing of 2:59:59. Earlier, the 42.195-km marathon was flagged off by UP minister of sports and youth welfare Upendra Tewari from Anand Bhawan gate at 6.30am. The marathon is an annual event organised under the aegis of Uttar Pradesh Sports Directorate and district administration in memory of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi (1917-1984). It was started in 1985. The event could not be organised last year due to the Covid pandemic. The district administration had made elaborate arrangement for the event. The participants ran on the route past Teliarganj, Mayo Hall crossing, High Court, CMP College, New Yamuna bridge, Hanuman Mandir up to the end point at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium. The runners ran with a computer chip each attached to their shoes or clothes. This was done as per the rule of Athletics Federation of India (AFI) which has made it mandatory in marathons. In the evening, the award giving ceremony was organised at Madan Mohan Malviya Stadium and chief guest Upendra Tiwari distributed the prizes. A cultural function was also held on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indira-marathon-army-s-valliappa-gujarat-s-nirmaben-bag-top-spots-101637344272860.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||UP: Three detained for Kheri girl’s ‘gangrape’, two at large||Police on Thursday detained three of the five men who allegedly gang-raped a class 10 girl student and also allegedly made a video of the crime nearly a week ago in a Kheri village under Lakhimpur Kotwali limits. Deputy superintendent of police, Lakhimpur Kheri, Arvind Kumar Verma said on the complaint of the girl, a case under section 376 D of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the five accused.He further said while three accused were detained and were being interrogated, efforts were on to nab the remaining two who were at large. Meanwhile, the girl had been sent for a medical examination, he added.The incident came to fore on Thursday evening when the girl lodged a complaint with the Kotwali police, alleging that five men, one of them her acquaintance, of the same village waylaid her and then outraged her modesty in a field while she was on her way to a coaching centre located in the city on November 13. When the incident came to the knowledge of the girl’s parents, they took her to Kotwali where she lodged her complaint, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-three-detained-for-kheri-girl-s-gangrape-two-at-large-101637343731028.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: UP govt cancels notification appointing judicial panel||A day after the Supreme Court appointed justice (retd) Rakesh Kumar Jain, the former judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, to monitor the ongoing Uttar Pradesh SIT’s investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, the state government on Thursday cancelled the notification by issuing which a single-member judicial commission of inquiry headed by justice (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava of the Allahabad high court was appointed to probe the case last month.The Uttar Pradesh government in its order dated November 18, said, “The notification dated October 6, 2021, to appoint retired Allahabad high court judge justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to head the single-member inquiry commission to probe the eight deaths in Lakhimpur Kheri is hereby cancelled.”The apex court also ordered to reconstitute the SIT by inducting three senior IPS police officials into it. Meanwhile, justice (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava was stated to have left his camp office in Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday.“Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava left Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday evening,” said Kheri district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh. Justice Srivastava had arrived at his camp office at local PWD rest house in Kheri on Tuesday evening.On Wednesday, the single-member inquiry commission visited Tikunia (where the violence had occurred) and inspected the spot. The inquiry commission also received inputs from the police and administrative officials about the violence which claimed eight lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-up-govt-cancels-notification-appointing-judicial-panel-101637343313370.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites may soon charge their Electric Vehicles at housing societies||Now, charging electric vehicles may no longer be inconvenient for Mumbaiites as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is looking at setting up electric vehicle (EV) charging stations inside housing societies in the city. According to the civic body, the charging stations would be handed over to private contractors to operate while the societies could get some incentive from the civic body for offering space for the same.These charging stations could be used by residents of the societies as well as EV owners in the neighbouring area.The civic body is exploring various options to set up EV infrastructure in the city. It is also setting up EV charging stations in public places as well including the Public Parking Lot (PPL). A senior BMC official anonymously spoke to HT, saying, “If this plan is materialised, it will give people easy access to the EV charging points. The plan will require identifying such societies and complexes in the city and consulting with stakeholders.”He further informed, “The plan is at its primary stage. We will need to work out a proper plan before even approaching housing societies or complexes. The ultimate aim is to have sufficient public infrastructure for charging of EV’s in the coming years.”The BMC has a total of 26 PPLs in the city and in the coming month, each PPL is going to have an EV charging point. Along with this, the BMC also owns several on-street parking lots in the city where it plans similar charging points.How much does it cost to charge EV vehicles?According to BMC, it takes ₹15 per unit to charge an EV. In general, it takes around 20 to 30 units for an EV to be fully charged, so the total charging cost would be between ₹200 and ₹400. A fully-charged EV can be driven for around 140km to 170km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-may-soon-charge-their-electric-vehicles-at-housing-societies-101637343311974.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi hands over indigenous light combat helicopter, other equipment to armed forces in Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi ceremonially handed over the indigenously developed light combat helicopter (LCH), drones and electronic warfare suite to the armed forces as part of the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv at a ceremony in Jhansi on Friday.PM Modi said the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv was the beginning of a new chapter in the history of the defence sector in India. He also laid the foundation stone of a ₹ 400 crore plant of Bharat Dynamics Limted, the first unit of the Jhansi node of UP Defence Industrial Corridor that would come up on 183 acres.This initiative would give Jhansi a new recognition, boost MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) in the Bundelkhand region and create job opportunities for the youth, PM Modi said.The prime minister said the Bundelkhand region, once known for its valour and courage, would be playing the role of “sarathi’ in the UP Defence Industrial Corridor and would be one of the major centres of India’s defence strength.Remembering hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand who was from Jhansi, Modi said at a time when the strength of our forces is increasing, India was preparing the ground for the capable youth to protect the country in the future.He was referring to the opening of 100 new Sainik schools across the country that he launched from Jhansi.“These 100 Sainik Schools will work to put the future of the country in the hands of powerful people,” PM Modi said.Modi said the government has started the admission of girls in Sainik Schools.“Admission of girl students has started in 33 Sainik schools. They will produce daughters like Rani Laxmi Bai to take the responsibility of defence, security and development of the country,” he said.These Sainik Schools would be set up in partnership with private institutions. In all, the PM inaugurated or laid the foundation stone for projects worth ₹3414 crore in Jhansi. It included an ultra mega solar park worth ₹3000 crore in Garautha, which would produce 600 megawatt of electricity on completion.Laying emphasis on gaining self-reliance in defence, he said history was replete with examples that India never lost a war for lack of courage and valour. “If Rani Laxmi Bai had modern weapons like the British back in 1857 (the First War of Independence), history would have been different,” PM Modi said.The time has come when India, which was known as an arms buyer, would be a global player in arms export, he stressed.“The mantra is Make in India—Make for the World,” he said, adding the Ministry of Defence has released a list of 200 military equipment that would be bought from Indian companies to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat.“These equipment cannot be bought from overseas anymore. There is a ban now,” he said.At the ceremony, PM Modi formally gave light combat helicopter (LCH) designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari, drones and UAVs built by Indian start-ups to Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, and the DRDO-designed and Bharat Electronics Limited-manufactured advanced electronic warfare suite for naval ships to Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh. Modi also launched the National Cadet Corps (NCC) Alumni Association in Jhansi.Besides, the prime minister reached Jhansi Fort and launched the National Programme of Simulation Training for NCC cadets with the aim to scale up simulation training facilities for all three wings of NCC. He interacted with 33 newly joined girl students from Sainik Schools, representing all the 33 Sainik Schools in the country.Earlier, he unveiled stone signage on Maharani Laxmi Bai and inaugurated Atal Ekta Park in Jhansi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-hands-over-indigenous-light-combat-helicopter-other-equipment-to-armed-forces-in-jhansi-101637342531007.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Political parties, groups welcome decision on farm laws, say it’s victory of farmers||Farmers’ outfits and political parties in the state welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to withdraw three farm laws and described it as a victory for the farmers. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the central government should take stakeholders and Opposition parties into confidence to avoid such embarrassment in the future. On the other hand, NCP chief and former union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar took a jibe at the Central government and said that they repealed the laws because they were afraid that they would have to pay the price in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh and Punjab Assembly elections.“Fortunately, farmers from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana were involved in the agitation. They realised that they will have to pay the price and thus repealed the laws,” Pawar said.He also talked about the resilience of farmers who sat through harsh weather conditions to mark their protest. The chief minister said that the announcement is an example of the strength of the common man of this country.“Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has repeatedly clarified its stand against the farm laws. Besides, we have also discussed their adverse effects in the state cabinet meeting and in the state legislature. The central government would not have to face the humiliation if they had taken all the opposition parties and the concerned organizations in confidence before enacting the three legislations,” Thackeray said in a statement.He added, “Those who provide us food sacrificed their lives unnecessarily. But the feeders have shown their strength, I salute them. I humbly pay respects to the heroes who sacrificed their lives in the protest.”However, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that the decision will lead to losses for farmers. He added that the decision was taken unwillingly. “The farm laws were introduced to safeguard the interest of the farmers. The decision to repeal them will cause a lot of losses and damage. Barring a few groups of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, farmers from across the country were in favour of the laws. We failed to convince the importance of the laws to this small group of farmers,” he stated.Social activist Ulka Mahajan, who participated in the agitations, said, “This is a big lesson to all political parties that you cannot win elections by cheating the farmers and hurting their interests.” State revenue minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said that the Central government cannot run away from the atrocities meted out to the farmers during their protest. “The Modi government should take responsibility for the deaths of the farmers and apologise for it,” he said.Prominent farmer leader Raju Shetti thanked Modi for repealing the act. “It shows that you cannot pass such laws on a brute majority,” said Shetti.Farmers also welcomed the decision. Kamalkishor Jogdande, a farmer from Bhokardan in Jalna district, said, “I welcome the decision. The laws were against the interest of farmers and would have deprived us of the existing benefits.”Ajit Nawale, state general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, which has been at the forefront in representing farmers in Maharashtra, said that the fight will continue.“The fight will continue till the implementation of the Swaminathan commission’s recommendations, guarantee of minimum support price and law for the assured returns on input cost,” he stated, adding that although 600 farmers lost their lives, they welcome the decision. Quote to highlight:The decision to repeal them will cause a lot of losses and damage. Barring a few groups of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, farmers from across the country were in favour of the lawsState BJP chief Chandrakant Patil||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/political-parties-groups-welcome-decision-on-farm-laws-say-it-s-victory-of-farmers-101637342411024.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Metro services between Rajiv Chowk to Central Secretariat to remain suspended for a few hours on Nov 21||The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said that metro services on Yellow Line's Rajiv Chowk-Central Secretariat section will remain suspended for a few hours on Sunday morning. The DMRC will undertake scheduled track maintenance work.“To undertake the scheduled track maintenance work at Central Secretariat metro station of Yellow Line on the intervening night of November 20 and 21, train services on the morning of November 21 on this line will be briefly regulated,” the DMRC said in a statement.The Yellow Line connects Samaypur Badli in Delhi to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon. The metro rail services will remain suspended in the Rajiv Chowk to Central Secretariat section from the start of the service till 7.30am. The DMRC said that the Patel Chowk metro station will be closed till resumption of train services. The metro rail services however will continue to be operational in the remaining section from Samaypur Badli to Rajiv Chowk and Central Secretariat to HUDA City Centre. The DMRC also said that connectivity between Rajiv Chowk and Central Secretariat stations will continue to be provided using free feeder bus service during this period.“Patel Chowk Metro station will remain closed till the resumption of train services in the section. Connectivity between Rajiv Chowk and Central Secretariat stations will be provided through Free Feeder Bus service during this period,” the DMRC said in a tweet.The DMRC also posted a tweet to inform travellers regarding the scheduled track maintenance on Sunday.“Yellow Line Update Train services will be suspended from Rajiv Chowk to the Central Secretariat section from the start of the day on 21st Nov. 2021 (Sunday) till 7:30 AM on the same day due to scheduled track maintenance work,” the DMRC tweeted.The Rajiv Chowk Station is among the busiest stations of the Delhi Metro network and an interchange station with the Blue Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-services-between-rajiv-chowk-to-central-secretariat-to-remain-suspended-for-a-few-hours-on-nov-21-101637341530011.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Supreme Court refuses to entertain ex-UP minister's plea seeking default bail||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition filed by former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapti, through which he sought default bail in connection with a money laundering case. A two-judge bench of the top court, comprising Justice KM Joseph and Justice P Narasimha said that the appropriate remedy in the matter would lie with the Allahabad high court.The former minister moved apex court after a Special court in Lucknow declined his petition for default bail. Additionally, the Special court also granted his custody to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over charges of money laundering in a case related to the alleged possession of disproportionate assets.On January 14 this year, the ED began its investigation into charges against Prajapati.The development comes just a week after Prajapti, along with two others, was convicted, and sentenced to life imprisonment, over charges of gang-raping a woman in Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh. The court also slapped a fine of ₹2 lakh each on those convicted, though it absolved four others due to lack of evidence against them.Also Read | Former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati, 2 others get life term in gang-rape caseOn February 18, 2017, the woman filed an FIR against Prajapti, who was a minister in the previous Samajwadi Party government, and his six associates, accusing them of gang-raping her, and trying to outrage the modesty of her minor daughter. The complaint stated that the crime took place at his official residence in Lucknow when he was still a minister in the state government, holding the mining portfolio. Prajapati was a member of the ruling dispensation from 2015 to 2016.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-ex-up-minister-s-plea-seeking-default-bail-101637337403173.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Fashion designer among 3 arrested for extorting 3.26 crore from Mumbai businessman||The Mumbai crime branch on Thursday arrested three persons, including a fashion designer, for allegedly extorting ₹3.26 crore from a 64-year-old businessman in the past two years by threatening lodge a rape case against him. The police suspect the involvement of more people in the racket and teams have been despatched for tracing them. The arrested accused – Lubna Vazir, 47; Anil Chaudhary, 42; and Manish Sodi, 41 – are residents of Andheri. The accused were produced before a metropolitan magistrate and remanded in police custody till November 25.According to the police, the complainant is a Kolhapur resident and runs a sugar business.According to the police, the complainant met Chaudhary in Goa five years ago during a business trip and the duo became friends. The businessman came to Mumbai two years ago in March and was staying in a five-star hotel near Sahar airport. Chaudhary and the complainant had planned to meet for dinner in the same hotel for a business-related discussion.However, Chaudhary sent Vazir and another woman for the dinner. The women ordered dinner in the complainant’s room. After dinner, Vazir told the comaplainnat that she had to give a document to someone and left the room, while the other woman went to the washroom, stated the press release issued by the crime branch.After a few minutes, Vazir returned. As per the release, when the complainant and Vazir were having a discussion at the door, the other woman came from the washroom and sat on the bed. She started screaming and telling him that she had taken his video and will defame him by circulating it on social media, the crime branch claimed.The businessman got scared and called Chaudhary, who came to the hotel later. The four accused allegedly extorted ₹3.26 crore from the businessman in the past two years by threatening to defame him, said a police officer.Some months ago, owing to the continuous harassment, the complainant switched off his mobile phone for a few days. The accused then called his office, claiming to be policemen and tried to take his son’s mobile number. However, but the staff did not provide the number, added the officers. In the last week of October, the accused traced the businessman in the western suburbs and demanded more money. When he refused to pay, the accused allegedly kidnapped him and took him to Vazir’s residence, where they robbed his gold chain. The businessman then approached a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and lodged a complaint with Sahar police. The police registered a case under the charges of kidnapping, wrongful confinement and extortion against the accused. Mumbai crime branch then started a parallel investigation and laid a trap in Andheri on Thursday night. When the four accused came to collect ₹26 lakh from the complainant, the police nabbed Sodi, Chaudhary and Vazir. Their fourth accomplice, however, managed to flee, added the officer.The police have recovered cash and the gold chain worth ₹49.35 lakh from the accused, said deputy commissioner of police Neelotpal from the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fashion-designer-among-3-arrested-for-extorting-3-26-crore-from-mumbai-businessman-101637337010532.html
19-11-2021||Ranchi||JMM threatens economic blockade against Tata group over shifting Cummins’ registered office||The ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislators have threatened an economic blockade of Tata group if their firm Tata Cummins continued with its plan to shift its corporate office from Jamshedpur to another state. Two days back, JMM workers led by its legislators had held a day-long sit-in outside the gates of all Tata group production units, including Tata Steel, Tata Motors and Tata Cummins. However, Tata Cummins has said its plans to shift its registered office from Jamshedpur to Pune would not make any impact on its Jamshedpur operations or the prevailing employment scenario or other welfare work it does in the state. Alleging that the Tata Group companies, which have had a long association with Jamshedpur, are now trying to relocate as their government came up with laws to ensure 75% of jobs go to locals, JMM legislators from Kolhan division met in Jamshedpur on Thursday where they decided to launch a major protest, besides taking up the issue with the chief minister. “Our meeting was chaired by tribal welfare minister Champai Soren. It was decided that we will wait for 20 days. If the company does not come out with a solution, we will begin an economic blockade. We have also authorised our minister to take up the issue with the chief minister. A delegation of all MLAs and party office bearers would meet the CM over the issue,” said Ramdas Soren, a three-term legislator from Ghatsila in East Singhbhum district (Jamsedhpur). Soren alleged that Tata Cummins has applied to change its income tax filing address from Jharkhand to Maharashtra, which is a step towards shifting its base. “The income tax department has sought no-objection clearance from the state government. If that is done, it will change the legal jurisdiction of the company as all legal rules of this state won’t be applicable anymore over it. What if any worker has a legal issue with the company. Will he go to Maharashtra to fight any legal battle,” Soren said. However, following the protest, Tata Cummins issued a statement categorically denying media reports about shifting its Jamshedpur operations. “The process for the transfer of Registered Office of Tata Cummins Private Limited (TCPL) from Jamshedpur to Pune was initiated a few years ago to facilitate the ease of administrative operations with the Corporate Office. The shifting of the registered office will not impact the revenue, employment, and welfare opportunities for the state of Jharkhand or the city of Jamshedpur. We continue to abide by all the labour laws and other compliances, as applicable for the state of Jharkhand,” the statement said. “We established our presence in Jamshedpur in 1993. In the last 28 years, we have created thousands of jobs in the region and supported the community. There has been significant investment in Jamshedpur operations in all these years to adopt and upgrade to advanced technologies, increase our production capacity and capability. Our commitment towards Corporate Responsibility in and around the region has positively helped uplift communities, safeguarded the environment and social welfare, which has only increased over the years,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jmm-threatens-economic-blockade-against-tata-group-over-shifting-cummins-registered-office-101637336350446.html
19-11-2021||Patna||Corruption probe against MU VC set to cover more Bihar varsities||The ongoing probe into the alleged financial irregularities and corrupt practices by Magadh University vice chancellor is set to extend to other universities, according to officials of Bihar Police’s special vigilance unit (SVU), which searched the premises of VC Rajendra Prasad on Wednesday.According to officials privy to the probe, it could also include other dimensions, viz. automation and building construction, books and computers purchase as well as utilisation of funds under Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Mission (RUSA) over the last few years.“There are complaints of serious anomalies in the way funds have been spent in violation of established financial norms, lack of auditing and scrutiny, besides tendency to award bulk contracts, much higher than the existing requirement, to a particular set of UP-based companies by several universities,” they said.SVU has also written to Pataliputra University, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), JP University (Chapra) and BRA Bihar University (Muzaffarpur), seeking information on bulk purchases related to examination/ university since January 2019 and other details, including total number of students who appeared in the university exams, total number of OMR sheets and rate per OMR sheet along with copy of agreement with the suppliers/agencies.The information, the SVU has stated in the letter to TMBU and Pataliputra University registrars, has been sought with reference to the confidential inquiry in the case against MU VC Rajendra Prasad under section 120-B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and other sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. “The information duly supported by original records may please be sent to the SVU by December 24, along with a person competent to explain the records,” reads the letter sent by JP Mishra, superintendent of police at SVU. According to sources, the SVU has stumbled upon records of several universities placing orders to the same set of UP-based companies during the last couple of years, when several VCs in the state universities were also from UP. Some of them have also left for new assignments either after completing their term in Bihar or leaving their term midway for better avenues, while facing vigilance cases in the state. The agency has started calling officials from the universities to explain certain points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/corruption-probe-against-mu-vc-set-to-cover-more-bihar-varsities-101637336291810.html
19-11-2021||Patna||Attack on Bihar judge: HC steps in, police body seeks justice for cops||The alleged attack on a controversial judge in Bihar’s Madhubani district by two police officers on Thursday is set to snowball into a major controversy, with the Bihar Police Association (BPA) linking the incident with the attack on the policemen in the court premises.Additional district and sessions judge (ADJ-1) in Jhanjharpur subdivisional court, Avinash Kumar, who has often hit the headlines with his unusual orders, has alleged station house officer (SHO) of Ghoghardiha police station, Gopal Krishna, and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma entered his chamber on Thursday afternoon, assaulted him and even pointed a pistol at him. Within hours of the incident, the Patna High Court took suo motu cognisance and Chief Justice Sanjay Karol set up a special division bench to hear the matter.“As per directions of the chief justice, the present case has been listed before this bench for a special hearing after a report received from the in-charge district and sessions judge, Madhubani, in respect of physical attack and assault on ADJ-1 Avinash Kumar. He has reported that around 2 pm, the station house officer (SHO) of Ghoghardiha police station Gopal Krishna, along with Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma, sub-inspector of police, forcibly entered the chamber of Avinash Kumar-I, and started abusing him. On his protest, both police officers started misbehaving and manhandling the judge. Not only this, they also assaulted him. They also took out their service revolvers and wanted to attack the officer. However, certain court employees and advocates reached there due to which life of the officer was saved,” the bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah, which heard the matter, said. “Prima facie, it appears that this episode puts the independence of judiciary in jeopardy.”The next hearing in the case has been fixed for November 29.BPA president Mrityunjay Singh, however, said the truth must come out after thorough probe. “If policemen are responsible, they must be punished, but case should also be lodged against those who beat up policemen in the court premises. Law is the same for everyone,” he said.He said nobody saw what happened with the judge, but the injured policemen and blood stains on their uniform was visible to everyone. “We just want justice to be done. Had the SHO carried any malice, he would not have gone there on a phone call from the judge? There should be justice with the injured SHO also and his FIR should also be lodged,” he said.The injured police officers are currently undergoing treatment at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. An FIR has been lodged against both of them on the statement of the ADJ Avinash Kumar.“How could he give oral orders to the SHO in his capacity as head of the subdivisional legal services authority (SDLSA) to come to his chamber? There was no written order to the SHO. He was asked thrice on phone to come to the court premises even though he was not under the same subdivision or under his jurisdiction,” said Mritunjay Singh, adding that the Ghoghardiha police station falling under the jurisdiction of Phulparas sub-division. According to state police headquarters, the judge had summoned the SHO in a case related to one Usha Devi, who lodged a complaint that the Ghoghardiha police had falsely implicated her in a case. Both the police officers were thrashed mercilessly outside the chamber of ADJ and confined in a room inside the court premises. On getting information, inspector general of police (Darbhanga range) Ajitabh Kumar, Madhubani superintendent of police Dr Satya Prakash and district magistrate Amit Kumar reached the spot around 9 pm and rescued the policemen. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar, who physically appeared before the bench for Thursday’s hearing, confirmed that a case has been lodged against the two police officers and both were taken into custody. Judge Avinash Kumar has been in the headlines for his unusual orders. In one such order, he granted bail to a molestation accused on the condition that he would wash clothes of the entire village for free. While he was posted in Patna, he had served show-cause notices on the chief secretary and the state police chief for non-compliance of the order to deduct ₹2,500 from the DM and SP’s salaries in a lynching case and deposit the sum to the CM Relief Fund. In fact, on September 24 this year, the Patna high court seized all his judicial powers of ADJ Avinash Kumar.The judge’s FIRIn the FIR, additional district judge Aviansh Kumar claimed the SHO entered his chamber, started talking in very loud tone saying it was his style. “You instruct our boss (SP Dr Satyaprakash) to be present in the court by serving a notice. You sent me a notice as well. Today, we will show you your status,” the SHO allegedly told the judge.The FIR says sub-inspector Abhimanyu Sharma joined the SHO, who whipped up his service revolver and pointed at the judge. “Today, I will send you away from this world because I have got orders and support from our boss... We have come to show you your status at his behest,” they allegedly told him. According to SHO of Jhannjharpur police station, Neha Kumari, the accused policemen have been arrested and booked. Bishnu K Jha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/attack-on-bihar-judge-hc-steps-in-police-body-seeks-justice-for-cops-101637336290507.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine doses lying unused in private centres in Thane||Around one lakh vaccine doses are lying with private vaccination centres across Thane city. With hardly a handful of people opting for private vaccination, the chances of these doses going waste have increased.Doctors from private hospitals in Thane city suggested putting the excess vaccine doses to use rather than waste them.The Serum Institute of India’s Covishield has a shelf life of nine months. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has a shelf life of six months, but it has now been extended to 12 months.Private hospitals were allowed to procure vaccines directly from the manufactures from May this year. Soon after a shortage of doses in government hospitals were noted, this prompted many private players to stock themselves with as many vaccine doses as available.However, with the increase of vaccination centres within the Thane civic body and increased availability of free doses, the accessibility towards government vaccination centres were on the rise.The demand for private vaccination centres declined. Even those who took the first jab through a private facility started preferring free second jabs at government facilities. Most private hospitals, therefore, have ample vaccine stocks and with nine to 12 months as the expiry date of these vaccine doses, they are likely to expire between February and April 2022. Currently many of the private hospitals allow vaccination within their premises only once a week as the demand has dipped drastically. On Wednesday and Thursday, the civic body saw hardly 200 and 120 vaccines, respectively, administered in private hospitals across Thane city.Dr Amol Gitte, medical director, Siddhivinayak Hospital, Thane, said, “Now, in private hospitals, we are only receiving beneficiaries who are due for their second dose. The government or local civic body can now make use of the vaccines available in private centres before the existing ones reach expiry date.”Some hospitals like Jupiter are conducting vaccination sessions only once a week as the demand has decreased drastically.Post Diwali, less than 500 vaccine doses are being administered on a daily basis in private centres across Thane Municipal Corporation jurisdiction. Meanwhile, around 13,000 vaccine doses are administered by government centres daily.It was from September that the demand for private vaccination started falling. All those who could afford to pay for vaccination eagerly came forward to get jabbed as soon as the doses were available for all age groups initially. As private vaccination centres were available easily through online booking, many availed the same in the beginning.Moreover, there were planned vaccination camps conducted in residential areas and corporates that were available to many more. “Thus only those who cannot afford private vaccines or those who are reluctant to get the vaccine were left unvaccinated. Every hospital has sourced these vaccine vials and paid for them as well. Hence, they may expect payment for the vials if any local governing authority shows interest,” said a senior doctor from a private hospital in Thane.Dr Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter, said, “There are certain pockets in the city or within Thane district where vaccination continues to be less. Corporates can consider these as CSR activities and provide vaccines from private hospitals to such remote areas for free. As there continues to be reluctance among these pockets to get vaccinated, through CSR activities, more awareness with the help of fun sessions can be inculcated.”Until August, Thane city had the most number of vaccine stock available in private centres than government centres. There used to be serpentine queues outside government centres but the shortage of vaccine prompted many to get inoculated at private centres. Moreover, many housing societies and private corporate offices conducted the vaccination through the private vaccination facility in the months of June and July. Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “We have not yet received any official order regarding usage of vaccine vials with private centres. Our focus is to meet 100% first dose vaccination across the city as of now. If need be, we can make use of those vials as a booster dose of vaccination. However, we are awaiting an order from the State government on the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-doses-lying-unused-in-private-centres-in-thane-101637335990669.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Paradise Found||Not the hedonism of champagne-quaffing oligarchs, nor the giddy getaway of party-hearty bikini babes, but a measured, deeply immersive experience of serenity, harmony and natural beauty, Soneva Jani’s recently launched Chapter Two, in the Maldives, a cluster of 27 overwater villas – said to be the largest and most luxurious of their kind in the world, each featuring vast indoor and outdoor living spaces, sweeping terraces, sumptuous private pools and breath-taking water slides – have been designed to generate such a profound sense of equanimity and pleasure that it is easy to feel a meditative calm descend upon you, as you give yourself over to the endless blue ocean, panoramic skyscapes and the sound of the gentle, ebbing and flowing of the waves under you. A lucky break has brought you here, your first trip abroad since the pandemic and divested of your mask and shoes, you can feel yourself unwind, relax and breathe… Gradually, you begin to notice the artistry of your surroundings: the undulating sensuality of the resort’s unvarnished wood; the delightful idiosyncrasy of cutlery and clothes pegs, fashioned to look like fish; the retractable roof in the master bedroom, which slides back at the touch of a button, so you can lie in bed and gaze at the stars at night; the sumptuously inviting day beds which allow you the luxury of lounging whenever you please, without having to worry about ‘evening service’; gentle, subdued lighting, emanating from lights made to resemble giant sea animals, which cast dreamy sensuous shadows; outdoor showers and bathtubs that allow you to contemplate your surroundings in solitary splendour. And the flickering of a thousand small lamps as night descends, making the resort appear as a magical utopian neighbourhood in some sci-fi fantasy and not another luxury resort operated by a large faceless conglomerate obsessed with its bottom line, unconcerned with how its guests sleep, dream, are nourished and unwind… **********************************************************************************************************************What is remarkable in the Soneva story is that the redefining of the conventional luxury resort, and in fact, the creation of the Maldives as one the world’s leading luxury holiday destinations, is the handiwork of an Indian businessman and his Swedish wife. When Sonu Shivdasani – scion of a genteel and philanthropic London-based Sindhi clan and Eva Malmström, a former top fashion model – first chanced upon the inhabited islands in the Indian Ocean 25 years ago, they were a haven for low-budget group tours. Slowly, assiduously, the sophisticated world-travelling couple created the resort of their dreams, a place for people like themselves who appreciate that true luxury lies not in objects and brands, but in the appreciation of nature, slow living, simplicity, conscious consumption and privacy. Ideas that had seemed almost eccentric 25 years ago, but which today, in a post-pandemic world have become not only de rigeur but imperative. That luxury can be intelligent and responsible has always been at the core of the Soneva story. As concerned as they are about affording their guests with unforgettable bespoke one-of-a-kind experiences, there is also deep thought given to the underpinning philosophy on how to create this. In fact, Sonu has always envisaged Soneva as being a platform for great minds and path breaking, thoughts and ideas. Which explains why next year, for the first time, the group has partnered with the Jaipur Lit festival to set up tent at one of its resorts in the Maldives. “The theme of the festival is very much aligned with our core brand philosophy. Environment, travel, wellness, history, sustainability, poetry, astronomy and more, will be part of the panel discussions, events and workshops,” says the man whose vision not only transformed a group of islands into one of the world’s premier luxury destinations, but also made his resorts the go-to choice for some of the planet’s wealthiest and most famous personalities, who recognise and appreciate what true luxury really means.  ******************************************************************************************************************Thanks to her parents and her Swedish heritage, Eva says she was always brought up thinking of the planet. “No one understood my wish to take care of the environment, including my husband, who at the time thought ‘green’ was just a colour!” she laughs. Nevertheless she soldered on, stressing the need for sustainability and protection of the environment long before it was fashionable and earning for herself the sobriquet ‘The Conscience’ amongst her colleagues. This heightened sensitivity to Mother Earth made her ensure that not a single tree was to be cut and only sustainable wood was used for the construction of the resorts and their furniture. Thanks to Eva‘s insistence, the group bans the use of unethically produced feathers for pillows and duvets, the sale of coral and shells, endangered animal skins and the consumption of unethical, cruel food such as wild caviar, foie gras and Bluefin tuna (as they are almost extinct) and recycles all its waste even as it protects the coral reef and shoreline. The other belief that Eva and Sonu subscribe to is that true luxury is eating fresh, healthy food. Thus, every resort has its own organic garden where it grows fruit, vegetables and herbs, so guests can savour their meals knowing that the food they consume is free of chemicals, and fair-traded and sourced sustainably. “I think real luxury is freedom, privacy and time to relax in a laid-back environment,” says Eva. “Our beaches are designed so you don’t see a soul; to be able to sit in the open air, with your toes in the sand, not having to wear shoes – that’s a big luxury.” India has always been a key market for the Maldives because of its proximity, but since the post-pandemic reopening of the borders earlier this year and the air travel bubble between the two countries, this has accelerated, resulting in more flights between the two countries and even a daily direct flight to Male from Mumbai. Over 157,000 tourists arrived from India from January to August – a 300% over the earlier year, according to authorities. The opening of its Chapter Two during this period is a validation of this demand. In many ways, it symbolises a kind of ‘Chapter Two’ for the group as it enters its 26th year, with further plans of expansion and talks of opening new properties in South East Asia (though a resort in India, unfortunately, is not on the anvil at the moment). Also, as the world recovers from the cataclysmic pandemic, hopefully, the planet itself could embark on its own Chapter Two – with a new-found appreciation for the environment, sustainability and living harmoniously with nature, concepts that have been the hallmark of Sonu and Eva’s philosophy. “The past 20 months have been a challenging time for everyone, and I think it has made people rethink what is important in their lives. I believe the world is striving for real experiences now,” says Sonu. Eva agrees. “Looking to the future, as we come out of the pandemic, I think that global travellers will be seeking more health-focused travel options, and hopefully become more aware of the natural environment around them, and as a result more sensitive to the challenges of the planet.” So forget all those Insta pics of bikini babes and filthy rich plutocrats partying on yachts; the big boys and girls know that ‘Chapter Two’ – intelligent, sustainableluxury, is an idea whose time has come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-paradise-found-101637335750735.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Was unfairly targeted, says Vikram Gokhale; defends his decision to support Kangana Ranaut||Veteran actor Vikram Gokhale on Friday defended his support to actor Kangana Ranaut for her controversial comment. However, he insisted he had not made any insulting remarks against freedom fighters. In addition, he said it was time for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena to come together for the sake of the nation. Gokhale said he has his reasons for supporting Ranaut’s statement and is entitled to do so, as it is his right as an Indian citizen. “I don’t know Kangana, nor have I worked with her. However, I was unfairly targeted after I supported her statement. Let me make it clear, I have said nothing about the freedom fighters,” said Gokhale. He said the popular slogan that our freedom was attained without shedding any blood was an insult to the revolutionaries who were killed or hanged while fighting for India’s independence. He said that the India of 1962 was very different from that of 2021, and even our enemies acknowledge this fact. Ranaut, commenting at a summit, had said that India got ‘bheek’ (alms) in 1947, and attained her ‘real freedom’ in 2014, referring to Narendra Modi being elected as the Prime Minister. This had drawn huge criticism from citizens across the nation. Gokhale was among the very rare personalities who supported her contention. Gokhale described the recent case of the arrest of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan as a minor matter. He further added he has refused offers to join politics and he would continue to criticise the wrong policies of anyone in power, irrespective of the party in power. Gokhale, who is one of the renowned names in Marathi and Hindi cinema, said that the secularism being practised in India was actually pseudo-secularism, which he did not subscribe to. Speaking of Maharashtra politics, he said, “The BJP-Shiv Sena have been together for 25 years and they were practising one agenda, which is important for the nation. They fought the elections together and citizens voted for both the parties, but they are deceived today,” said Gokhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/was-unfairly-targeted-says-vikram-gokhale-defends-his-decision-to-support-kangana-ranaut-101637335090499.html
19-11-2021||Bhopal||Jabalpur cops ban ‘Chinese knives’, tell Amazon, Flipkart to stop delivery||JABALPUR/BHOPAL: The Jabalpur police has told online shopping sites such as Flipkart and Amazon to stop delivery of flip-open knives in the city after it came across multiple instances where people including young women were carrying such knives, colloquially referred to as Chinese knives, people familiar with the matter said.The knives came under the spotlight after the accused in two murders over the past month were found to have used the flip-open knife. A female engineering student arrested by Gorakhpur police in Jabalpur for carrying the knife said she wasn’t the only one, and many women carried the knife for protection.When the police inquired, it turned out that everyone bought the knife from online shopping sites.“When we checked with the shopping sites, they informed us that 2,300 Chinese knives were sold in the past one year to residents of Jabalpur,” said superintendent of police, Jabalpur, Siddharth Bahuguna.Bahuguna said they sought a list of people who purchased the knives online and started the process of taking action against them.Under the Arms Act, it is illegal to carry a knife with a blade longer than 9 inches and a width of 2 inches, or more.The district police chief said he has ordered all police stations to put out notices and awareness posters informing people that Chinese knives are banned in the city and file FIRs under the Arms Act against people carrying such knives.Additional superintendent of police Rohit Keswani said it wasn’t that the police will start booking everyone who bought the knife. “The action will be taken against people as per the size and purpose of purchase of knives,” he said.The engineering student who found herself on the wrong side of the law because of the knife, said: “Many women carry this knife for self-protection and because it was a foldable folding knife so it is easy to carry”.“The police came to me and checked my bag like I am a criminal. Later, they took me to the police station. My family is still in shock because of this incident,” said the student who was released on bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/jabalpur-cops-ban-chinese-knives-tell-amazon-flipkart-to-stop-delivery-101637334310883.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Police arrest man from Jharkhand for murder in Dombivli||The Manpada police in Dombivli have arrested an accused from Jharkhand in a murder case in Dombivli.The cops claimed to have faced a lot of opposition from his village in the arrest. However, they managed to nab him. The accused, Kalkumar Mahato, had murdered his cousin and escaped to his village.On November 4, a man was found injured on the road near the railway track of Golivali village area, Dombivli (E). The cops immediately admitted him to a hospital and found that he was brutally beaten up with sharp weapons because of which he was bleeding. The team started searching for his identity in a nearby village as he was unconscious.Through local sources and people staying near his residence. Police then contacted his villagers from his native Jharkhand when they came to know about the rivalry between him and his cousin brother. Meanwhile on November 8, the injured succumbed to death. Police identified the deceased as Sikandar Mahato, 43.The accused had called the deceased to meet him for a party. Kalkumar then drank and also made his deceased brother drink. He allegedly provoked Sikandar by insulting his wife and a fight broke out between the two. The accused smashed the deceased’s head with a stone and fled the spot, thinking he was dead. Police arrested him under IPC 302.An officer from Manpada police station said, “Through technical details, the accused who was changing his location finally reached his native. Therefore, we sent our team to Jharkhand. After taking help from local police, a team reached the village to nab the accused but villagers kept him hidden. After the team came to know about his location, the villagers attacked them with stones and other things. But our police team nabbed Kalkumar and brought him to Dombivli.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-arrest-man-from-jharkhand-for-murder-in-dombivli-101637333890158.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says sacrifices of Sikh gurus saved religion in the country||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the sacrifices of Sikh gurus saved religion in the country. He was speaking on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations in Lucknow.“The contribution of Guru Nanak in improving the social fabric of the country must be highlighted prominently. Due to sacrifices of the Sikh gurus, religion was saved in this country,” he said at the function organised by Gurudwara Naka Hindola at DAV college ground.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia also participated in the celebrations.Yogi Adityanath also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement about the decision to repeal the Centre’s three new farm laws.“Today, the Centre has (decided to) repeal the three farm laws. However, they were for the betterment of small farmers. The government tried to have a dialogue with farmers at every level. Maybe because of some deficiency on our part, we failed to explain our point to the people,” Yogi Adityanath said.For his part, Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee president Rajendra Singh Bagga said, “We welcome the decision of the prime minister on this auspicious day.”Bagga also said, “We had to shift the venue because of a huge crowd which comes to attend the function. At DAV college, around 80,000 people had langar (community feast).”All India Radio (AIR), Lucknow, relayed a 30-minute programme live from DAV College ground. Bagga greeted the gathering on this occasion and his message was relayed through AIR.A huge pandal (tent) was decorated and the holy Guru Granth Sahib was placed in a palanquin at the centre. A large number of devotees visited the DAV College ground to participate in the celebrations.After recitation of Akhand Path, Jasbir Singh from Darbar Sahib Amritsar and Santokh Singh from Jalandhar recited the Gurbani Kirtan. It was followed by a lecture on the philosophy of life of Guru Nanak by Jaspal Vir Singh from Jalandhar.Langar was distributed to all from 11.30am to 5pm. There was a special fireworks display on the gurudwara compound in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-sacrifices-of-sikh-gurus-saved-religion-in-the-country-101637333230129.html
19-11-2021||Pune||PMRDA issues Kolte Patil Developers showcause notice over Ivy Estate road||The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), on Friday, issued a show-cause notice to real estate developer Kolte Patil Development Limited for non-completion of a road that connects Ivy Estate to the Ahmednagar highway in Wagholi.This society, one of the first one to come up in Wagholi 14 years ago, does not have a proper road connecting it with the main highway.“There is a two-foot difference between the highway and the ground level of the road to the Ivy Estate entrance. This has happened due to levelling work ongoing on the highway. This road has deep potholes and boulders, thus making this road a very perilous one to traverse on,” said Arjit Chatterjee, resident of Ivy Estate.The Ivy Estate Federation claims to have held multiple talks with senior management of Kolte Patil.On November 13-14, residents held a silent protest.Mukesh Jaitley, head of operations at Kolte Patil Developers, said, “We are ready and willing to get the road done and the length is also not an issue, but there is a family litigation on this plot due to which this land has not been bought by Kolte Patil Developers, but is part of the proposed road in the sanctioned plan. A stay order has been put by the court on any construction activities on this land.”On November 15, residents held a meeting with the PMRDA commissioner to discuss the road issue. MLA Ashok Bapusaheb Pawar, along with residents, met with commissioner Suhas Divase and metropolitan planner Vivek Kharwadkar. “We were assured by the commissioner of PMRDA that they will issue a show- cause notice to Kolte Patil Developer to get the issue resolved,” said Chatterjee, who was present for the meeting.“An on site inspection on November 16 was conducted by PMRDA and it was found that 120 metres of road is in a bad condition and needs to be redone, hence, we have issued showcause notice to Kolte Patil Developers,” said Vivek Kharwadkar of the PMRDA.The notice asks the builder to clarify why should there be no stay order be put on ongoing projects. It also mentions that further documentation requests by the builder will be rejected, and no PMRDA certification will be provided to Kolte Patil Developers until a proper road is provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmrda-issues-kolte-patil-developers-showcause-notice-over-ivy-estate-road-101637333050331.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||In Navi Mumbai, Covid testing increases as also average number of daily cases||Post Diwali, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has increased the testing by 24% after which there has been a rise in average number of daily cases by 16%.The average number of testing that was being conducted last week was 6,252, which increased by 16% with the testing being 8,177 this week.Meanwhile the average daily cases that were 26 last week have increased to 31 this week. “Last week being Diwali, there was a shortage of staff and hence there is a reduction in cases. From this week, the testing increased and the lab is being used up in full capacity, leading to slight increase in cases,” a medical officer from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation said.On November 1, the average cases were 45 and average testing was 7,524.Currently, the doubling rate in Navi Mumbai is 2,812, which was 3,176 days last week while it was 1,899 in the first week of November. Even as there is a slight surge in the cases, the graph of active cases is seen to be coming down. The active cases currently are 319, which were 377 last week and 460 in the first week of November.The civic officials credit the recovery rate as the reason for the active cases going down. Currently, the recovery rate of NMMC is 98% and case fatality rate is 1.80%. The daily positivity rate is also noticed to be going down.On October 31, the daily positivity was 0.94%, which came down to 0.83% on November 7 and to 0.31% on November 18.Till now, Navi Mumbai has had 1,09,049 positive cases, of which 1,06,766 have recovered and 1,964 died. The targeted testing of at least 31 people is being conducted behind every single positive case reported in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-navi-mumbai-covid-testing-increases-as-also-average-number-of-daily-cases-101637332815592.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Central Railway GM conducts inspection of amenities at Pune station||In a bid to review passenger amenities and inspect services provided by the railways, Anilkumar Lahoti, general manager (GM), the Central Railway, conducted inspected the Pune railway station on Thursday evening. He checked various passenger amenities like restrooms, platforms, seating arrangements and interacted with passengers. Lahoti along with senior railway officials came to the station at 6pm and checked ongoing works and services. Due to the Diwali vacations, there is rush at Pune railway station for the last few weeks. He also checked the food quality at the railway canteens and hygiene maintained at the platforms and circulating areas. “The inspection was conducted in the evening and Lahoti sir took a round of the entire circulating area and platform no. 1. He talked to some of the passengers and discussed amenities, and what things needs to be improved. Then he took a review meeting with Pune divisional railway manager Renu Sharma and other senior officials regarding the ongoing projects, which included yard remodeling, Hadapsar railway station work and the Lonvala local train route operations,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. “Overall the visit was satisfactory for GM Lahoti and he mainly instructed the speeding up of ongoing works at the Pune railway division. Accordingly, instructions have been given to all the department heads. Also, passenger amenities will be improved,” added Jhawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/central-railway-gm-conducts-inspection-of-amenities-at-pune-station-101637332572961.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Need better coordination between state police, central agencies: Shah||LUCKNOW Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday stressed on better coordination between the state police forces and central agencies and underlined the need for focused action on security-related issues such as Maoist violence and cyber crime.Inaugurating the three-day 56th conference of DGPs and IGPs at the Police Headquarters in Lucknow, Shah appreciated the role played by security forces during Covid-19 pandemic and awarded trophies to three top police stations of the country after on Friday.The top spot was grabbed by Sadar Bazar police station of New Delhi, followed by Gangapur police station in Odisha and Bhattu Kalan police station in Haryana, stated a press released shared by the UP Police.The home minister also gave away medals for meritorious service to the officers of Intelligence Bureau. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would participate in this conference from Saturday. In his address, Amit Shah stressed on better coordination between the state police and other central agencies and urged the delegates for timely implementation of suggestions discussed during the conference. He underlined the need to focus on security-related issues, including coastal security, left wing extremism, narcotics trafficking, cyber crime and border area management. Besides, deliberations were held on a wide range of internal security issues, including prison reforms, challenges posed by radicalisation and police training. In the run-up to the conference, various core groups comprising DGPs of different states were formed for holding discussions on key aspects of internal security. This year, for the first time, over 200 officers of different seniorities from various states/UTs were also requested to submit papers on contemporary security issues being deliberated in the conference. The conference is being organised in hybrid mode. DGPs of all states/UTs and DGs of CAPFs will attend the conference for the next two days at UP police headquarters in Lucknow. In addition, about 350 other officers will attend the same through virtual platform from IB offices in various states and UTs. Shah hailed the hybrid format of conference, as directed by the Prime Minister, and observed that this will help in better dissemination and percolation of suggestions at the cutting edge level. He emphasised on reforms at police station and beat level for effective policing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/need-better-coordination-between-state-police-central-agencies-shah-101637332333084.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||A victory of farmers, says Himachal Kisan Sabha as PM’s announces repeal of farm laws||Himachal Kisan Sabha (HKS) has expressed delight over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws and termed it a victory of farmers who fought relentlessly against these ‘anti-farmer’ laws. HKS also reiterated that till the withdrawal of these laws through proper parliamentary process, farmers will not end their protest. Rakesh Singha, former general secretary of HKS and CPIM legislator MLA from Theog, said that the government had left no stone unturned to defame the farmers’ movement.“A conspiracy was hatched to defame farmers by calling them terrorists and Khalistanis. An attempt was made to create a divide between Haryana-Punjab, Sikh-Jat, rich farmer-poor farmers,” he alleged. But the government finally had to bow down before the solidarity of the farmers, added Singha. He said that farmers should not forget that the central government is the “killer” of more than 700 farmers, including those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He said farmers should unite and continue their fight for remunerative price on C2+50% basis as per Swaminathan Commission.HKS state president Kuldeep Singh Tanwar said there were many issues facing the agriculture sector in Himachal Pradesh on which farmers will have to fight on the lines of national movement. “MSP is yet to be implemented in Himachal, permanent markets have not yet been established in the state for the purchase of food grains. Farmers in Fatehpur of Kangra are already bearing the brunt of lack of markets,” he said. He said farmers of Himachal were also not getting MSP for vegetables and compensation if crop is destroyed in natural calamity. The government has abolished the subsidy given for vegetables and crops, including horticulture.Tanwar said the National Farmers’ Movement has instilled a new confidence in the farmers of Himachal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-victory-of-farmers-says-himachal-kisan-sabha-as-pm-s-announces-repeal-farm-laws-101637332210058.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO to adopt UDCPR provisions for NAINA project||City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has decided to adopt certain provisions of Unified Development Control Promotion Regulations (UDCPR) for rapid and efficient development of the Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (NAINA).This move is expected to incorporate the best of the UDCPR along with NAINA and pave the way for more viable projects and will lead to sustainable development, claimed CIDCO.The notice regarding obtaining any suggestions and objections has been published in the official gazette of the Government of Maharashtra per Section 37, subsection 1 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 on November 3, 2021. Any suggestions and objections from the citizens will be heard by the committee consisting of Chief Planner (NAINA), SP (DP NAINA) and SP (BP NAINA).CIDCO vice-chairman and managing director, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “NAINA will be developed as a city of international standards with opportunity for businesses to flourish. CIDCO is functioning as the Special Planning Authority for the NAINA area. The Board of CIDCO has now resolved to incorporate certain provisions of the UDCPR of GoM in NAINA region, which shall facilitate ease of doing business.” This will also allow for quicker development of the NAINA project.To prevent haphazard development around the Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), CIDCO has proposed the development of NAINA on 371sqkm of land from the Thane and Raigad districts. This development aims to develop a sustainable city with residential, commercial, educational and all other basic civic facilities.The implementation of NAINA is carried out by implementing 11 town planning schemes. The project is based on the principle of land consolidation. As the Special Planning Authority for the NAINA notified area, CIDCO is responsible for the implementation of the regulations in the area. Since the city of NAINA will be close to the proposed NMIA, it will have a prominent place on the international map. CIDCO is developing dedicated sectors like Medi City, Sports city, edu city, Research and Development zone, Eco-tourism and Entertainment among others. This will attract national and international investments in the city. The city will be connected with the help of highways, suburban railways, and the metro. This will facilitate the growth and development of business and economic projects in the NAINA area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-to-adopt-udcpr-provisions-for-naina-project-101637332033406.html
19-11-2021||Pune||IMD forecasts cloudy weather with rainfall for Pune||PUNE The weather department has forecast cloudy weather in the next few days for Pune. The India Meteorology Department (IMD) has also forecast light to moderate rainfall. In the month of November alone, Pune district has reported 446 per cent excess rainfall.According to the weather department, Maharashtra itself has reported a 10 per cent of excess rainfall, wherein actual rainfall in November has been 15.5 mm, 10 per cent more than the normal rainfall of 14.1 mm.Pune city has received 12.9 mm rainfall in November. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the city is likely to continue experiencing cloudy weather till November 25.“As per our forecast, the cloudy weather is likely to continue. And light to moderate rainfall is forecast in Pune city till November 21. As there is cloudy weather, the day temperature may not be very hot and night temperature is also not likely to fall much,” said Kashyapi.Pune on Friday reported a maximum temperature of 30.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 21.5 degrees Celsius, 7.2 degrees warmer than the forecasted normal.As per IMD, the coldest city in Maharashtra on Friday was Mahabaleshwar at 17.5 degrees Celsius.Kashyapi added that the isolated places in Konkan and Goa and central Maharashtra may continue to witness rainfall till November 21.“Rainfall associated with these two subdivisions will be followed by thunderstorms and lightning. After November 21, the chances of rainfall are likely to reduce in the state,” said Kashyapi.IMD also forecast that after November 24, central India, which includes Maharashtra, may report a gradual drop in minimum temperatures by two to four degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imd-forecasts-cloudy-weather-with-rainfall-for-pune-101637331851178.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 191 new Covid cases on Friday||As per the state health department, Pune district reported 191 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths due to the infection on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,013 deaths reported and 3,039 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 76 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 367,040 cases and the death toll stood at 6,947.Pune city reported 76 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 522,296 and the death toll stood at 9,208.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 39 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,387 and the toll stood at 3,509.Pune district also saw 28,887 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWIN dashboard and in total 1,26,05,243. Out of which 79,73,204 are first doses and 46,32,039 are second doses. A total of 524 sites saw vaccination out of which 377 were government centres and 147 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-191-new-covid-cases-on-friday-101637331609874.html
19-11-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar is asked about PM Modi decision to scrap 3 farm laws. His response||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who earlier advocated engaging farmers opposed to the three agricultural laws in dialogue, on Friday declined to comment on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise announcement to withdraw the three contentious laws.“The central government got the farm laws cleared in Parliament. It was the decision of the PM. Now, he himself has announced that they will be repealed in the next session of Parliament, PM explained it very clearly. The decision is his, there cannot be any reaction to this,” the chief minister said at Patna airport on his return from the national capital Delhi.The chief minister’s ‘no comment’ approach on PM Modi’s televised address was seen as an attempt to distance himself from the contentious laws that he and his party, Janata Dal (United), supported. Kumar did, however, insist all along that the controversy around the three laws did not impact farmers in Bihar because the state did away with the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) more than a decade ago and put in place an alternative system.Like many others in the ruling alliance, Nitish Kumar also attributed the protests against the three farm laws to “misconceptions” and asked that the Centre to engage farmers in a dialogue to clear their apprehensions. In all, the Centre and farm union leaders held 11 rounds of discussions, the last one in January 2021 after the Supreme Court stayed implementation of the contentious farm lawsOn February 8, Nitish Kumar told reporters that the central government will clarify the benefits of the new laws to farmers.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad tweeted his congratulations to farmers on the success of their democratic and peaceful agitation and lambasted the “pro-capitalist government” for efforts to malign the image of farmers by branding them as terrorists, Khalistanis, and anti-nationals. “The nation is run by restraint, decency, tolerance and based on prudent and all-encompassing decisions with democratic values, and not through the wrestling,” said Prasad.Senior Congress leaders such as Bihar chief Madan Mohan Jha underlined Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s continued support to the farmers and counted his relentless opposition as one of the reasons why the centre was forced to concede to the farmers’ demands.Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that it was a victory of farmers and the whole of India. “The Centre’s decision to take back the law can be seen as the defeat of capitalists, their patrons and egoist Nitish-Narendra Modi regime,” he added.CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, saluting the farmers’ movement, said the Modi regime has been pushed back by the heroic struggle and sacrifices of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-is-asked-about-pm-modi-decision-to-scrap-3-farm-laws-his-response-101637331012057.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Only 0.29% got Covid despite being fully vaccinated in Mumbai||Only 16,967 people in Mumbai got the Covid-19 infection despite being fully vaccinated, data collated by the civic body has shown. Infections that occur two weeks after full vaccination are known as breakthrough infections. According to the Brihanmumbai Mumbai Corporation (BMC), these infections accounted for only 0.29% of the 5,809,294 people who had received both shots, as of November 14. The civic body data also showed that of the 3,277,061 people who had received only one dose, around 17,171 or 0.52% got the infection. “Breakthrough infections are minuscule in comparison to the infections seen among the non-vaccinated population,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of the BMC. “Vaccination has played a crucial role in reducing the number of infections, which is why we have focussed all our energy in reaching 100% full vaccination coverage,” she said. Mumbai has an adult population of 9.2 million people eligible for vaccination. The civic body has achieved 100% first dose coverage and the two doses or full vaccination coverage is just around 68%. Medical experts say that while one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine may offer some protection, both doses are crucial for long-term immunity. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force, said that the cases of breakthrough infections are mild. “But these patients do have fever, body ache and weakness and take around 10 days to recover. It’s like a regular bout of viral illness. None of my patients has had a severe form of Covid-19, requiring oxygen or intensive care,” he said. The immune response generated by the vaccines in some individuals is not the same as others, which perhaps causes a small percentage of breakthrough infections. “The immunocompromised population is more likely to get breakthrough infections, as they often don’t have adequate immunity triggered by the vaccines,” said Dr Srivastava, adding people should therefore continue taking precautions and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour despite full vaccination. According to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), fully vaccinated people with a vaccine breakthrough infection are less likely to develop a serious illness than those who are unvaccinated and get Covid-19. “Even when fully vaccinated people develop symptoms, they tend to be less severe symptoms than in unvaccinated people. This means they are much less likely to be hospitalized or die than people who are not vaccinated,” it said. The CDC also recommends that moderately to severely immunocompromised people receive an additional primary dose of vaccine. Many health experts in India too are rooting for a booster dose for the healthcare workers and people with comorbid conditions. Physician and intensivist Dr Pravin Amin who practices at the Breach Candy Hospital said that patients with breakthrough infections commonly have fewer antibody titers. Antibody titers determine the level of antibodies in the blood. “Barring one patient who required oxygen support, all the cases breakthrough infections that I have seen have been very mild,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-0-29-got-covid-despite-being-fully-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101637331009807.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Return ₹6.5 lakh seized from 2 senior citizens in 2008: Bombay HC to customs dept||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the customs department to refund an amount of ₹6.5 lakh, which was seized from the home of two senior citizens by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in 2008. The court has expressed its anguish over the “callous manner” in which the agency was treating senior citizens and delaying the refund, though the adjudicating authority had directed DRI to do so in 2011 while the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (west zonal bench) in 2018 had also passed the same order. A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition of a couple – Mohammed Sajid and Shazia Khan – was informed by their advocate Shehzad Naqvi that DRI had seized cash worth ₹6.5 lakh on April 17, 2008, from the senior citizens’ Byculla residence as alleged profits from the export of red sander, which is a protected item under the Customs Act. Naqvi informed the bench that in 2011, the adjudicating authority had observed that there was no evidence to prove that the seized cash was proceeds of the alleged offence and hence, could not be confiscated under the relevant provisions of the Customs Act. Thereafter, the couple had applied to DRI seeking return of the amount, but did not receive any response. On the contrary, in 2012, the customs commissioner (appeal) had imposed a penalty of ₹10 lakh on the couple and the seized amount was adjusted with the penalty amount. Thereafter, the couple filed an appeal against the commissioner’s order, which was heard in 2018. The tribunal which heard the appeal set aside the penalty order and directed the authorities to return the seized amount of ₹6.5 lakh. However, after a passage of three years as the couple had not received the amount they approached HC. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “We fail to understand why senior citizens of our society are being treated by the statutory authorities in such a callous manner by not refunding the amount seized from their residence despite them having secured favourable orders at least since 2018, consequently, compelling them to file the above writ petition.” The bench then directed the counsel for joint commissioner of customs (refund), advocate Jitendra Mishra, to give an undertaking to refund the amount within a period of one week. After Mishra informed the court that the authorities would affect the refund within the time stipulated by the bench, the petition was disposed of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/return-6-5-lakh-seized-from-2-senior-citizens-in-2008-bombay-hc-to-customs-dept-101637330949735.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ghulam Nabi Azad welcomes repeal of farm laws, says move should have come earlier||Senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three farm laws, adding that many lives could have been saved, had the decision been made early. “It would have been better, had the government rolled them back in time. All political parties unanimously opposed these bills and demanded they be rolled back. When I was leader of opposition, I had said that we make laws for people, but if people don’t want a law, then it serves no purpose. I wish the PM and BJP-led NDA government had taken this decision one-and-a-half years ago because many lives that were lost in dharnas in winters and summers, could have been saved,” he said. “Had it been done earlier, the Parliament would also have maintained its ‘maan smaan’ (sanctity) and these lives would not have been lost,” he added. “At the same time, we can’t condemn this decision and we welcome it but with a heavy heart,” he said. “Ensuing elections obviously played a role in the repeal of these farm laws…I need not tell that. I would say that elections only played the role but ultimately government has accepted to withdraw these bills,” he responded to a query. He said that it should not be viewed as victory or defeat. “We always say that government should not make it an issue of prestige. The will of the people is supreme. A bill was also rolled back during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure but the demand of repealing farm laws was not of a particular religion or region. It is good that the BJP government has rolled these back,” he said. Azad also downplayed his removal from the party’s disciplinary committee. AICC president Sonia Gandhi on Friday dropped him from the disciplinary panel. Many believe that Azad’s removal from the panel was the fallout of the resignation letter sent by 20 J&KPCC leaders to Sonia Gandhi. All the 20 leaders were Azad loyalists in the faction-ridden J&K PCC. Downplays removal from disciplinary committeeWhen asked whether party high command wants to “discipline” those who want a change within the Congress, Azad said, “Well, I have been in the disciplinary panel for quite a long time. I remained in it for five years during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure around 36 years ago. And I was in this committee also for over a decade. This isn’t some committee, which meets every day. It meets once in two years or once a year. I think for the last one-and-a-half years, there was no meeting (of this panel). So, this is (his removal) not something big.” When asked to react to BJP’s promise of having uniform civil code in the country, Azad said that such issues should not be discussed at the time of elections. “Well let’s not discuss all these issues at the time of elections, which are going to be held in the next two months. We should not raise such issues, which divide the nation and government should also neither think nor do any such thing that divides the nation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-welcomes-repeal-of-farm-laws-says-move-should-have-come-earlier-101637330472491.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Two-year jail for Aligarh BJP MLA in 22-year-old case||Sitting BJP MLA of Aligarh City Sanjeev Raja was on Thursday sentenced to two years imprisonment for thrashing a traffic police constable in Aligarh 22 years ago.Additional district judge in Aligarh Manisha (who goes by one name) also slapped a penalty of ₹14,000 on the MLA but granted him bail till the time appeal by him was accepted in the high court.The case was registered against the MLA for thrashing traffic police constable Shyam Sundar on November 17, 1999 in Aligarh. Shyam Sundar, deputed at Ganda Nala area of Aligarh, had stopped a driver of vehicle carrying building material from entering into Aligarh city and asked him to go through by-pass but driver moved on in the city area.As the constable chased the vehicle, the driver told him that the vehicle belonged to Sanjeev Raja who later turned up and along with the driver thrashed the constable. Sundar lodged a complaint on November 17 at Banna Devi police station in Aligarh where case was registered against Raja and driver of vehicle under sections 147, 332, 353, 504, 506 of Indian Penal Code.The counsel of accused pleaded that it was first crime of Raja, who is presently the MLA from Aligarh city, and was serving the masses thus he should be sentenced with minimum punishment.When contacted, Raja said he was from BJP, the party that always respects court’s order.“I will also respect the court’s order. I will appeal before a higher court,” said Raja.When asked if this conviction will affect his future candidature for assembly elections, he said “I am prepared to face the consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/twoyear-jail-for-aligarh-bjp-mla-in-22-year-old-case-101637330412320.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Pune astronomers claim discovery of 8 MRP class of stars using GMRT||A group of astronomers at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) in Pune claim to have discovered eight stars belonging to a rare class called “MRPs”, or, Main-sequence Radio Pulse Emitters.The discovery was made using the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) located near Pune. The team had discovered three such stars in the past using the GMRT. Thus, of the total of 15 MRPs known so far, 11 were discovered with the GMRT, of which eight have been discovered in 2021 alone.The bandwidth and high sensitivity of the upgraded GMRT is being cited as the key behind these discoveries. A research paper describing the new discoveries has been accepted for publication in The Astrophysical Journal. The lead author of the paper is Barnali Das, who recently completed a PhD, working under the supervision of Prof Poonam Chandra at the NCRA’s Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Pune. Barnali Das and Prof Chandra have been actively involved in various projects aiming at the characterisation of this little-known class of MRPs. “The MRPs are stars hotter than Sun with unusually strong magnetic fields, and much stronger stellar winds. Due to this, they emit bright radio pulses like a lighthouse. Though the first MRP was discovered in 2000, it was only due to the high sensitivity of the upgraded GMRT (uGMRT) that the number of such stars is known have increased many fold in recent years, with 11 of the 15 being discovered using the GMRT. The success of the survey with the uGMRT suggest that the current notion that MRPs are rare objects may not be correct,” said lead author Das. In fact, the name MRP was introduced by them in the year 2020. In an effort to understand their properties, they have performed the most extensive study of MRPs over an ultra-wide frequency range, using two of the world’s leading radio telescopes: the GMRT and the US- based Karl G Jansky Very Large Array (VLA). Their work, for the first time, showed that the radio pulses emitted by MRPs contain a vast amount of information regarding the stellar magnetosphere. “The pulsed radio emission from MRPs are the only visible signatures of the theoretical models which predicts tiny explosions in magnetic massive stars which occur at specific locations in the magnetosphere of the star. These explosions have been predicted to play an important role in regulating the transport of wind materials surrounding the star, and are likely to affect the stellar evolution as well. The radio pulses produced by MRPs are the only probes that are sensitive enough to reflect the changes incurred by these relatively weak events. Further experiments are underway to characterize these changes in pulse-behavior so as to be able to use the radio pulses to study the dynamic stellar magnetospheres.” added Das. Prof Chandra said, “This is the frequency range where the uGMRT stands out as the most sensitive telescope in the world. The high sensitivity of the uGMRT and its ability to make high-resolution images were instrumental in enabling the recovery of the pulsed signal from the different types of radiation coming from the sky. This, combined with a strategic observation campaign allowed the astronomers to overcome the difficulties, and reveal the true nature of these objects. The study with the uGMRT allowed us to find that the magnetic field and temperature are two quantities that appear to play the major role in deciding how intense the radio pulse will be. These findings will be crucial in understanding what switches off the production of radio pulses in a hot magnetic star.”The GMRT is a radio telescope located at Khodad, 80 km away from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-astronomers-claim-discovery-of-8-mrp-class-of-stars-using-gmrt-101637329689614.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||'Shot of smoke for Delhi': Nasa photo shows how farm fires added to pollution||American space agency Nasa has shared images of farm fires, which have led to spike in the levels of air pollution in Delhi. The image depicts hotpots with small red dots. The entire area around the national capital is seen with high levels of air pollution.The images were taken by Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) on the Suomi NPP satellite on November 11, Nasa informed on its blog.Smoke from crop fires in northern India blanketed Delhi and contributed to soaring levels of air pollution. https://t.co/Pe30imj6xV pic.twitter.com/RyNEmVcbXx“Looking at the size of the plume on November 11 and the population density in this area, I would say that a conservative estimate is that at least 22 million people were affected by smoke on this one day,” said Pawan Gupta, a Universities Space Research Association (USRA) scientist at Nasa's Marshall Space Flight Centre.It further said that fires in northern Pakistan could also have contributed some of the smoke.Delhi's air quality continues to remain in the 'very poor' category for the sixth consecutive day on Friday, according to the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR).However, the overall Air Quality Index reduced from 362 on Thursday to 332 today.According to the SAFAR bulletin, Delhi's AQI will remain the same for the next two days.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The entry of trucks in Delhi except those carrying essential commodities has been stopped till November 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shot-of-smoke-for-delhi-nasa-photo-shows-how-farm-fires-added-to-pollution-101637294663048.html
19-11-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar logs tourist influx of nearly 1.2 million, highest after Mahakumbh||After Mahakumbh held earlier this year which attracted nearly 9.1 million pilgrims, Haridwar witnessed the maximum tourist influx of 1.2 million on Friday on the occasion of Kartik Poornima and Guru Purab, with pilgrims thronging ghats since early morning to take a dip in the holy Ganga. Amid fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections, the pilgrims could be seen flouting Covid-19 protocol without masks and with little regard for social distancing norms.During Mahakumbh in April also, pilgrims and seers had violated Covid-19 guidelines which had contributed to the spread of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand and led to a second wave in other states where pilgrims and tourists had returned. According to Senior Superintendent of Haridwar Police, Yogendra Singh Rawat the Kartik Poornima bath attracted around 12 lakh pilgrims from Kumaon division, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and other states. “Elaborate security, traffic and pilgrim management measures were put in place. The whole Mela sector was bifurcated into 9 zones and 32 sectors. In the wake of a terror threat, 2 bomb disposal squads, sniffer squads, a mounted cavalry unit, Provincial Armed Constabulary and local intelligence unit personnel as well as traffic police personnel were deployed in the area. The police also urged pilgrims to adhere to standard operating procedures,” said Haridwar SSP Yogendra Singh Rawat. Elated over the record number of pilgrims, Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, said that the year-end bath has once again shown faith empowering fear. “Post the decline in Covid-19 cases and double vaccination progressing on war footing, pilgrims are now feeling much safer to venture to places of pilgrimage,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha. Cautioning the government and people about a possible spike in Covid-19 cases, Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been tracking the Covid-19 scenario for the past 2 years, said it was important that there should be no leniency in following basic Covid-19 guidelines. “The fight against Covid-19 should continue in an aggressive way amid fears that there could be a third wave. We should not be complacent. We have to ensure vaccination of all by yearend, increase testing and make sure people wear face masks and keep away from crowded areas,” he said “A spike in Covid-19 cases in Russia, China and southern states in India is an indicator that neither the government nor people should forget the dreadful scenario of the first and second Covid-19 wave. Prevention and vaccination need to be done together to avoid a third wave of Covid-19,” Nautiyal said. The trading community, however, seemed quite happy as post Mahakumbh for the first time in 7 months such a record number of pilgrims arrived in a single day in Haridwar. “Traders remained busy throughout the day. I hope Covid-19 soon goes away and normal life resumes here and we continue to serve pilgrims as we have always done,” said trader representative Tej Prakash Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-logs-tourist-influx-of-nearly-1-2-million-highest-after-mahakumbh-101637328009627.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi welcomes decision to repeal three farm laws||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday welcomed the repeal of the three farm laws and expressed regret that farmers could not be convinced despite the government’s best efforts.“On behalf of the Uttar Pradesh government, I sincerely welcome the withdrawal of three agricultural laws by the Prime Minister,” he said in a press statement. The CM called the withdrawal of the bills a “historic” gesture and congratulated the Prime Minister for making the decision.“Some farmers’ organizations had launched movement over the three farm laws and the government established communication with them at all levels. A big section of people believed that the farm laws could play an important role in increasing the income of farmers,” he said.“The government tried to have a dialogue with farmers. But maybe because of some deficiency on our part, we failed to explain farmers about the utility of the farm laws,” added the CM.He said the Prime Minister also announced to constitute a committee for the minimum support price. “The Uttar Pradesh government welcomes the decision,” said Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-welcomes-decision-to-repeal-three-farm-laws-101637327289589.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||76-year-old man in Ambernath loses Rs4.65 lakh to online fraud||An unknown person pretending to be a woman on social media looted a 76-year-old man from Ambernath of ₹4.65 lakh, which was his retirement money.The person lured the septuagenarian with romantic messages. The senior citizen fell for them and sent cash to five different account numbers given by some unknown persons. They told him that the money was to free the girl stuck at the customs office at Mumbai airport but later he found he was cheated. A case has been registered against the five accused in Ambernath police station.The complainant, Pascal Gonsalves, met the user Miss Ethad on Facebook. According to Ambernath police, they became friends and chatted many times. Recently, Ethad told Gonsalves that she came to Mumbai to surprise him but was held by a customs officer for the expensive gift that she brought for him. Later, he got a call from a different number pretending as a custom officer and asked to pay fine for the gift if he wanted to release Ethad.An Ambernath police station officer said, “The complainant panicked and acted as per their guidelines. The accused then sent him different bank account details, telling him different fines were imposed on various items and asked him to transfer cash immediately. The complainant who saved all his income all these years got trapped and lost ₹4.65 lakh in this. Later he tried to call Ethad but the number was unavailable. That was when he realised that he was cheated. He came to us and filed an FIR against five people who held five bank accounts numbers to which he transferred the money.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/76yearold-man-in-ambernath-loses-rs4-65-lakh-to-online-fraud-101637325009015.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrifice of farmers who died during protests pay off, say their kin||A 55-year-old Ferozepur woman who lost her 23-year-old son during the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws on Friday said his soul must be at peace now after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the announcement to repeal the legislations.Lovejeet Singh was among around 700 farmers who lost their lives during the farmers' stir, according to leaders of the protesting unions.These farmers died because of various reasons, including harsh winter, road accidents, cardiac arrest and ailments.Modi on Friday announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year.Five farmers hailing from Punjab's Ferozepur district lost their lives during the agitation at the Delhi borders.Though the families of the deceased farmers expressed satisfaction over the announcement of the farm laws' repeal, one of the major demands of the protesters, they said the loss of their family members cannot ever be compensated.Ninder Kaur (55), a resident of Village Sawai ke in Mamdot block in Ferozepur, said her son Lovejeet Singh died at the Singhu border protest site. he died of fever."He was supporting the agitation from day one and used to tell me that the farmers will definitely win some day. His soul must be at peace after this news,” she said.Gurmit Kaur (58), a resident of village Pipli Chak in Guruharsahai sub-division, said her husband Jarnail Singh (60) died due to cardiac arrest at the Singhu border in June this year."His sacrifice has finally paid off as the union government decided to repeal the agri-laws. I am so happy that farmers who were fighting for their rights have finally won on the sacred day (on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev," said Gurmit Kaur.Satnam Singh Pannu, Punjab state president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said this day will etched in history."We were not fighting for ourselves. We were fighting for the generations to come. Though we lost our few members, the entire nation will always be grateful to them," he said.In Bathinda, the families of those who died during the farmers' struggle recalled their personal losses.Gurmail Singh, whose 18-year-old son Jashan Preet Singh of village Chuke died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border, said that he was happy that his son's sacrifice had not gone in vain."Today is the day of real happiness when my son's sacrifice is acknowledged," an emotional Gurmail Singh said.Sukhrimpy Singh said, “Farm laws had to be repealed. But I know I have lost my father in this struggle.”Singh's father Gurdas Singh Dhillon (68) of village Ghudda died in an accident in February this year.In Amritsar, the affected families welcomed the announcement but said it should have come earlier.Bhupinder Singh, who has recently lost his brother Gurbhej Singh of village Saidolehal at the Singhu border, said, "We welcome the decision of the PM, it's a good decision but it should have been done earlier so that many lives could have been saved.”"Many innocent farmers were killed during the agitation and they are martyrs for the farming community,” he said.Jagdish Singh who lost his brother Davinder Singh from village Maluwal during the stir at the Singhu border also hailed the announcement of repeal of the farm laws."We welcome this decision. But the government should have made this announcement earlier in order to save the lives of more than 700 farmers. Now it is the turn of the Punjab government to fulfil its promise of jobs to one family member of the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation,” he said.Punjab has remained the epicentre of the protests against the Centre's three farm legislations -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In November 2020, farmers from Punjab and Haryana moved to the Delhi borders to press the central government to withdraw these laws.They have also been demanding a new law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrifice-of-farmers-who-died-during-protests-pay-off-say-their-kin-101637323299746.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Man loses Rs2.83L to online fraud while buying mobile phone||The Nhava Sheva police have registered an FIR after a 55-year-old man lost ₹2.83 lakh to online fraud while purchasing a mobile phone.According to police, the complainant purchased a mobile phone from an e-commerce site last month. When he was making payment from his credit card, it was declined on the first attempt. However, in the second attempt, a transaction of ₹18,549 was successful and he received the mobile phone from the e-commerce site on time.“When the bill of his credit card was generated, the complainant noticed that ₹18,549 was charged twice. He raised the issue with the bank. The bank took his complaint and assured him that the money would be credited to his card soon. The bank executive also asked him to contact the e-commerce site so as to complete the process soon,” said a police officer from Nhava Sheva police station.“The complainant asked for the helpline of the e-commerce site from the bank executive and the latter asked him to search online. The complainant found a number online and called that to get back his money. However, the customer care number turned out to be fraudulent. The complainant downloaded a mobile app as suggested by the fake customer care and followed the instructions. The fraudster then transferred ₹2,17,783 from his bank account and ₹63,325 from his credit card. After realising what had happened, the complainant approached us and narrated the entire incident,” the officer added.The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 66C and 66D of the IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-loses-rs2-83l-to-online-fraud-while-buying-mobile-phone-101637323869110.html
19-11-2021||Bangalore||Citizens ridicule cleanliness award to Bengaluru City Corporation||Residents of Bengaluru are having a field day on social media after the city corporation was reported to be among eight other municipal bodies to have won a Union government-initiated award for cleanliness. “BBMP wins award for ‘keeping Bengaluru clean’ | This is the biggest joke on us citizens! A municipality who has failed to keep our city clean for decades wins an award? Citizens need to hold them accountable with rallies,” Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the chairperson of Biocon Ltd said in a post on Twitter. The award was instituted in alignment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a garbage-free country under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0, according to a statement by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.The results will be formally announced at a ceremony to be attended by President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, on November 20. From surveying around 73 major cities in 2016, 4,320 cities have participated in 2021, according to the statement, which adds that it has become the world’s largest cleanliness survey. The Union government said that over 50 million people have been part of the citizen feedback survey which marked an increase from last year’s 1.87 crore. “The 2021 edition was conducted in record time of 28 days despite several on-ground challenges owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. There have been significant on-ground improvements in performance of states and cities, as compared to the previous year,” the statement added. The award comes at a time when unseasonal rains have exposed the fault lines in planning--or the lack of it-- by inefficient civic authorities including the BBMP which has continued to burden the common citizen of a city that aspires to get global status for its prowess in technology, start-ups, knowledge, biotechnology and aerospace among several other sectors. BBMP’s ineffective administration has led to flooding in almost all parts of the city due to the heavy rainfall, forcing motorists and pedestrians to bear the suffering of commuting on the poor quality of roads. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the government had spent ₹2000 crore or just under $3 billion for road work over the last five years, with the civic authorities having nothing to show for it.Bengaluru generates around 5000 metric tonnes of garbage everyday but most of it is collected by civic workers with their bare hands and transported in unhygienic conditions to landfills or segregation centres. A significant portion of this garbage is left on roads, which raises the threat of infectious diseases especially considering the adverse impact after the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2020, Bengaluru won the best sustainable Mega City award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/citizens-ridicule-cleanliness-award-to-bengaluru-city-corporation-101637322788772.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli civic body to check if housing societies are implementing rainwater harvesting||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), though, has given a No Objection Certificate (NOC) to 635 societies to carry out the rainwater harvesting five years ago, there is no record on how many residents have actually started the project.The civic body has now decided to take a status check in all these societies as to whether the project is installed and operational.KDMC officials will pay a visit to these societies to check the progress of the project. The NOCs were given in 2016-17, as per the KDMC records.“We will do a review of these societies to ensure the projects are set up after getting the NOC and are being operated as per the rules. The engineers of the water department of the ward offices have been asked to review these societies and prepare a report based on the findings. It will help in taking the necessary steps and make sure rainwater harvesting is practiced,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC. The study will be carried out over the next few days.Pramod More, executive engineer, KDMC, said, “In many cases, even if the civic body has given the nod and the builder or developer has made the provision for rainwater harvesting, the residents of the society are not operating the project effectively. This is the reason why not many of the rainwater harvesting projects are successful. The status check will help give more insight to the same.”According to the KDMC, since 2016 till 2017, the water department has given NOC to 635 societies to carry out the rainwater harvesting. Out of these, 389 societies are in Kalyan and the rest in Dombivli.One society that has had a rainwater harvesting facility since the last 14 years in Kalyan is still effectively doing it. “Whatever amount of rainwater is collected in the terrace during the rainy days, it goes to the underground collection facility. This project has been undertaken for the last 14 years and is effectively done by the society,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, a resident of Om Shrikant Sadan building, Agra Road, Kalyan (W).In 2000, Lakshmi Niwas building located at Bhattacharya Chowk in Kalyan (W) was the first to carry out rainwater harvesting in Kalyan. A resident of the building, Upendra Karothia, 54, came up with the initiative to harvest rainwater and send it to a nearby dry well.“As the natural wells in the area were drying, I wanted to fill them up. This is how I decided to take up rainwater harvesting in my building. We collected the water from the terrace and through a pipeline, sent it to a nearby well that was dry. Every year, during the rainy season, the water is collected and sent to the well, which ultimately goes to the land and we manage to save water for the future,” said Karothia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-check-if-housing-societies-are-implementing-rainwater-harvesting-101637322193983.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||More than 57K names without photos deleted from voters list in Navi Mumbai||More than 57,000 names sans photographs have been deleted from the Navi Mumbai voters’ list. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has asked residents to check if their names have been deleted. The revision of voters’ list has begun and the revised assembly voters’ list will be applicable for the NMMC elections expected to be held early next year. NMMC has organised a special voter registration drive during the weekends.Ahead of the civic elections, municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, held a meeting with leaders of political parties in the city to discuss the revision of voters’ list that has been undertaken in the city.Maharashtra State Election Commissioner (SEC) has announced a special drive for updating of voters’ list from November 1 to 30. All those above 18 years of age as on January 1, 2022 are eligible.Bangar, said, “The meeting was held to explain the process being followed for the revision of the voters’ list with respect to addition, deletion and changes in the names of the voters. The voters’ list for Belapur and Airoli assemblies, which will be published on January 5, 2022, will also be used for NMMC elections. Booth Level Officers are engaged in revising the voters’ list in both the assemblies. We have asked the political parties to appoint Booth Level Agents who will be given identity cards. They can submit a maximum of 10 applications of their booth area.Speaking after the meeting, BJP Navi Mumbai president, Ramchandra Gharat, said, “We spoke to the commissioner on the civic body playing proactive role in the revision of the voters’ list. We will certainly support the civic body but there should be the will to implement the suggestions.”Shiv Sena Belapur chief, Vitthal More, added, “Nobody should be denied the voting right and we all will work towards it. Policy matters cannot be changed at this level but their implementation is the key and that is what the civic body has to ensure.”The special drive will be held on November 27 and 28 from 10am to 6pm at NMMC schools where central officials of voter registration will be present. Applications in specified format will be available there and accepted. Confirmation of names in the voters’ list can be done through www.nvsp.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-57k-names-without-photos-deleted-from-voters-list-in-navi-mumbai-101637320696047.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court upholds look out circular against HK-based diamond trader||The Bombay high court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by a Hong Kong-based diamond trader questioning a look out circular issued against him by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) as a result of which he was prevented from flying back to Hong Kong. A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal dismissed the petition filed by Chaitya Shah, after it was informed that the non-resident Indian was linked to Gitanjali Gems Ltd of fugitive diamond trader Mehul Choksi, who is accused of defrauding Punjab National Bank of ₹7080.86 crore and also owes additional ₹5099.74 crore to a consortium of 32 banks. Shah, who has been residing in Hong Kong along with his family for the past nine years, had moved the Bombay high court stating that on September 10, 2020, when he and his family were leaving New Delhi for Hong Kong, he was stopped at the airport’s immigration check. Also Read: Nirav Modi UK extradition appeal to be heard on Dec 14He said the immigration officer put a stamp that read “cancelled without prejudice” on his passport and didn’t allow him to board the flight. He added that the next day, he received summons and was required to attend the Mumbai zonal office of the SFIO, which was probing the affairs of Choksi’s Gitanjali Gems. He said he was a bona fide investor who had purchased 6,802,896 convertible warrants of Gitanjali Gems worth ₹49.25 crore between January 2015 and August 2016. Subsequently, the warrants were converted into equity shares, which he sold in 2017 for ₹50.51 crore. Maintaining that the transactions were conducted through banking channels and had nothing to do with Choksi personally, Shah said his family and his Hong Kong-based diamond trading entity Chaitya Private Ltd had been suffering as he was not allowed to return to Hong Kong. He questioned the look out circular arguing that his liberty was curtailed because of the SFIO’s action and that he was illegally prevented from going out of the country. It was argued on his behalf that several persons who face prosecutions in India can travel abroad, but not the petitioner, although he hadn’t been accused of any offence. The Bombay high court, however, held that Shah’s presence in India was necessary for the probe into the affairs of Gitanjali Gems. The bench said the recourse to the look out circular was not unfounded as Shah had a connection with the SFIO investigation since he was directly involved and was concerned with considerable share-holding of Choksi’s Gitanjali Gems. “It involves a huge amount of almost ₹50 crore that requires serious explanation from the petitioner in the background of the allegations that the money belonged to Mr. Mehul Choksi, who has left India and has not returned. This transaction is an important part of the entire fraud involving a huge amount,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-upholds-look-out-circular-against-hk-based-diamond-trader-101637320688492.html
19-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to levy tax on fodder for conservation of cows: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed the state authorities to chalk out a plan to impose tax on fodder for cows, which will help in the conservation of these animals, an official said on Friday. The chief minister gave this direction while chairing a review meeting of the Madhya Pradesh Gaupalan Evam Pashudhan Samvardhan Board (MP Cow Rearing and Livestock Promotion Board) on Thursday. "The chief minister said that a tax plan should be prepared for (procurement of) cow grass (fodder). Also, public participation should be encouraged for cow conservation," the official said. At the meeting, the CM asked the officials to make special arrangements to increase the sale of cow products by launching a massive publicity campaign. He said that phenyl made of cow urine should be used in government offices, an official statement said. The chief minister said the Kamdhenu Gau Abhyaranya, a cow sanctuary in Agar Malwa, 190 km north-west of Bhopal, developed by the MP Gau Samvardhan Board, should be turned into a model for the country and made the best national level cow sanctuary. Chouhan also said that the work of the development of gaushalas (cow shelters) in the state should be given to voluntary organisations. "The work of gaushalas is synonymous to service. Voluntary organisations can develop gaushalas well...," the release quoted Chouhan as saying. He directed the officials to provide grants to gaushalas run by non-government voluntary organisations. Chouhan also called for special efforts to improve the breed of cows in the state and underlined the need for research to increase the production of milk in cows. According to the 20th animal census of India conducted in 2019, there were more than 1.87 crore cows in the state, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-levy-tax-on-fodder-for-conservation-of-cows-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101637319734113.html
19-11-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: November 19-25||Inter-faith talk: IslamThe Snehsadan Institute for the Study of Religion and the St Vincent College of Commerce (Night) invite you to attend an inter-faith talk where the religion that will be spoken about and discussed is Islam.Meeting link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89602454361?pwd=WEFKL2J0S3BYdmhqVjNXOURFbFZHdz09Meeting ID: 896 0245 4361Passcode: 459040When: Friday, November 19; 6pm ISTWhere: onlineKonnichiwa Pune 2021Konnichiwa Pune 2021 is a 3-day cultural-business event that will have speakers including Masahide Sato, deputy consul, Consulate General of Japan in Mumbai, Tauchi Noritaka, consul, Saito Mitsunori, chief representative, Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica), Tomonari Kuroda, Japanese language advisor, the Japan Foundation, New Delhi, Siddharth Deshmukh, president, Indo-Japan Business Council (IJBC) and Yusuke Yamamoto, executive director, Delhi Japan National Tourism Organisation (JNTO).To register and for more details go to www.konnichiwa.ijbc.org When: November 19-21Where: Online‘Between One Shore and Several Others’ Vivek Vilasini’s latest artworks capture movement and captivity during the ongoing pandemic bringing an aesthetic dimension to the situation. A multimedia artist from Kerala, Vilasini’s work highlights appropriation and juxtaposition of forms and meanings in different settings. When: November 19Where: VHC, Koregaon Park Big Gigs presents the Djuma Sound SystemThe big weekend at High Spirits kicks off with international DJ Djuma Sound System, who is touring India with his deep house/techno/Afro sets.When: Friday, November 19; 8pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkDa High Cookout featuring Floyd LAvineAn African nomad, Floyd Lavine mines inspiration wherever he goes. From the vibrant musical scene of his homeland, drawing influence from local South African DJs , Floydʼs sound is the sum of his parts; cross-genre, with broad appeal.When: Sunday, November 21; 1:30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkCynthia & The Saturday Night BandThe Saturday Night Band has a wide variety of genres to please all musical palettes across Pop, Rock, RnB & Blues by a power-house collective of Pune’s local musicians - Cynthia, Chris, Mike and all of Groove Junktion.When: Saturday, November 20; 8:30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkContemporary Signatures – the group show The show features artists on a pan-India basis and is being touted as one of the biggest shows to be held in Pune over many years, with over 100 works of art on display. The show is being brought to Pune by thecurators.art – a contemporary online gallery. When: November 19-24; 6.30 pm onwardsWhere: Monalisa Kalagram, Koregaon Park POSCO workshopPOCSO stands for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and it came into effect in 2012 to provide for the protection of children from offenses of sexual assault, sexual harassment, and pornography, while safeguarding the interests of children every step of the way in the judicial process. This webinar takes a look at this monumental law and its ground realities.To register and for more information call Karma Center for Counselling & Wellbeing on098214 77730 or visit https://www.karmacare.in/Fees: Rs850 per personWhen: Friday, November 19; 5 pm- 7 pmWhere: Online Rumi Hai! Rumi Hai is a show dedicated to telling the life story of Persian poet Rumi by Ashwin Chitale. It will be performed through Dastangoi, a rare North Indian style of storytelling, along with recitation of his original poems in Farsi and their Hindi-Urdu translations. Chitale won national award for best child actor for his performance in the film Shwaas (2004) a Marathi film.For details call 097630 95043When: Sunday, November 21; 7pm Where: Raah - Literacy & Cultural Centre, Office 730, 7th & 8th Floor Marvel Vista, LullanagarFluid art A one hour fluid Art workshop packed with fun and games, where we will create a colorful fluid art piece under guidance. This event is a ‘Pay What You like’, but minimum entry price is ₹50.For further details please call +919725347694.When: Sunday, November 21; 2-3 pm and 7-8pmWhere: Online All-India Sudoku championship - winter 2021The name Sudoku comes from Japanese a puzzle with deep roots in Asian history. Studies have shown Sudoku increases concentration and reduces stress. This contest is aimed at spreading awareness and encouraging Sudoku culture in the country inspiring youngsters and students and rewarding the best Sudoku solvers of the country. To register email: admin@startupsabha.comWhen: Final dates to be announcedWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-november-1925-101637320088935.html
19-11-2021||Dehradun||Rajnath Singh to visit Pithoragarh to participate in Shaheed Samman Yatra||Defence minister Rajnath Singh along with minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, will visit Pithoragarh on November 20, to participate in the Shaheed Samman Yatra, which will start from Jhualkhet village of the district. Ashish Chauhan, district magistrate, Pithoragarh said that the defence minister will reach Pithoragarh at 11.30 am on Saturday and after spending two hours watching the programme being organised at Jhualkhet, will leave for Bareilly at 2.15 pm. He said Rajnath Singh will be accompanied by MOS defence Ajay Bhatt and Almora Member of Parliament Ajay Tamta. The Shaheed Samman Yatra will take off from Pithoragarh district on Saturday. The Yatra will pay tribute to the sacrifices made by soldiers from Uttarakhand. Covering 70 blocks in 13 districts of the state, it will collect soil from the homes of 1734 martyrs till December 7. The soil will be then be used in the construction of Shainya Dham in Dehradun. In January this year, then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had laid the foundation stone of Shainya Dham in Dehradun’s Purkul village. Taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi terming Uttarakhand as Shainya Dham, the fifth dham after the traditional Char Dhams, Rawat in 2019 had announced that the state government would set up Shainya Dham in Dehradun. It will have details of the soldiers who laid down their lives for the nation. It will also house details of the rich legacy of soldiers from Uttarakhand and their contributions over the years. Last year, Rawat had made the announcement of setting up Shainya Dham while addressing a gathering of former servicemen at Shainya Sammelan organised as part of the government’s week-long state foundation day celebrations for which the theme was ‘Mere Sainik Mera Abhimaan’ (My soldiers, my pride). Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an election rally in Rudrapur in March 2019 had said that “Devbhumi Uttarakhand has Chardhams, but today I add a fifth one- Shainya Dham- as every second house in this state is of an army man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rajnath-singh-to-visit-pithoragarh-to-participate-in-shaheed-samman-yatra-101637319848220.html
19-11-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Why the path to ‘finding your centre’ is a continuous process||I am sitting at my desk, rocking my legs continuously, as I am thinking and writing. Is rocking the right word to describe the constant shaking of one’s leg? Maybe not, but I don’t want to interrupt my thought process, so rocking it is. I am wired in, listening to Chris Rea’s iconic album, God’s Great Banana Skin.It was an instinctive, subconscious choice, but a deliberate one, as I realise now that am giving it a thought. This was the album I used to listen to the most back in the summer of 1992, when I was just out of Dadar Catering College, sitting at home for four straight months, accompanied by my classmate, friend, and brother-in-arm, Dmess. We had just completed a rigorous three-year programme in management, having studied and worked 9 am to midnight - more or less every day. Most of our classmates had jobs with leading hotels, cruise lines, startup airlines, or were setting up their own business or had signed up for the Master’s programme. We just sat at home and watched Star Sports and MTV all day, every day.Being a writer even back then, I wrote a lot and doodled a lot as well - diary entries, short stories, poems, business plans, marketing spiels, posters, travel itineraries, inventory and cost management models … anything that came to mind. And that’s where Chris Rea and God’s Great Banana Skin came into the picture - I used to wire into my Walkman and write. I had learned very quickly that listening to music is a great way to block out the world but a terrible way to focus your thoughts if you pick music that is catchy but new, which then means you’ll be engaging with the music and not writing. If I picked boring music or elevator music, well that just irritated me to the point of distraction and there was no writing that would happen in that mindset.Chris Rea is a British singer, songwriter, and guitar player who has a unique style that is deeply immersed in blues. I have been listening to Chris Rea for exactly three decades now. Never met him, but if I were to have been a musician, he is the kind of musician I would have wanted to be - because I identify with his work ethic. He has released 26 studio albums, one live album and seven compilation albums since his debut in 1978 - that’s 34 albums in 42 years in terms of productivity: and that’s apart from the sheer volume of concerts every year, not to mention the paintings he did. (I have 28 of the 34 albums). I usually pick one of the lesser-known earlier albums like Auberge or God’s Great Banana Skin as a companion when am writing long diary entries, especially those that require exploration and are likely to end up as unfiltered, stream-of-consciousness rambles (like this one) on existential matters. God’s Great Banana Skin more often because the title song is a reminder to not be so arrogant to think the world revolves around you.In terms of music, it is easy to label Chris Rea as a rock or blues-rock musician but he’s an artist (self-taught) whose work reflects his life. His triumphs, travails, feelings, opinions, ups and downs - it’s all there in his music (and I suspect in his paintings as well). Further, his musical style is uniquely his own because it is a product of his life.And that for me is what a definitive artiste stands for: one who puts their energies and opinion into their craft and produces work (under any and all circumstances) that speaks for itself and represents the artist’s take on the world (or on a universal or existential matter) at a given point in time. And this path, this method to always focus on channelising your energies into constructive work is what I call the continuous process of ‘Finding Your Centre.’ As a writer, I can admit that every time I get off that path, it leads to anxiety, frustration, anger and a whole universe of sundry other non-productive emotions.Naturally, I extend my viewpoint to beyond art and therefore believe - that under any and all circumstances - it is my job as a writer to write, as a designer to design, as a small business owner to manage risks to the business and so on. And that’s what I am doing now: focusing on my work - focusing on being a management person to the companies I am a part of; focusing on being a partner to my spouse, on being a father to our children, on being a son, a brother, a friend … focusing on all the different works that I am responsible for. And when I am doing what I have to do, it saves me the trouble of facing rational and irrational fears that come with being masked or being homebound (or not) or deciding whether to travel and how or not … fears of living in the pandemic-era world.I find that I am more peaceful if I don’t fret about what’s not in my control.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-why-the-path-to-finding-your-centre-is-a-continuous-process-101637319608479.html
19-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal governor says proceedings from legislative assembly not being made available to him||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has complained that proceedings from the state legislative assembly were not being made available to him, as he sought proceedings from the previous session of the house, in particular, the resolution against extension of the jurisdiction area of the Border Security Force (BSF) and privelege motion against two senior officers, one each from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED).Also Read | Bengal moves resolution against Centre’s order on BSF jurisdiction extension“WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought West Bengal Legislative Assembly Proceedings as regards passing @MamataOfficial as regards extension of jurisdiction area @BSF_India and Breach of Privilege Motion against CBI and ED officials @dir_ED,” his office tweeted on Friday, sharing a screenshot of the governor’s letter, which was dated November 18. WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought West Bengal Legislative Assembly Proceedings as regards passing @MamataOfficial Resolution as regards extension of jurisdiction area @BSF_India and Breach of Privilege Motion against CBI and ED officials @dir_ed pic.twitter.com/jksI62x18I“Attention of the Hon’ble Speaker be drawn also to the fact that on earlier occasions also, proceedings were sought, but unfortunately the same are not being available,” Dhankhar wrote, also describing the state of affairs as ‘improper,’ ‘unacceptable,’ and ‘unconstitutional.’  He further stated that the Speaker should pass a directive that in addition to the proceedings sought in the letter, those sought previously should be made available as well, at the earliest, and within a week from the date on which the letter was issued.The West Bengal assembly, on Tuesday, passed a resolution against the Union home ministry’s move to extend the jurisdiction area of the BSF in the eastern state, from the current 15km to 50km. A day later, on Wednesday, the house initiated a privilege motion against CBI and ED officials in connection with the Narada sting operation probe.Also Read | Bengal assembly moves privilege motion against CBI, ED officers in Narada caseOn October 11, the Centre issued a notification extending the BSF’s jurisdiction in three border states: Assam, Punjab and West Bengal. While Assam, on October 14, extended its support to the move, Punjab, on November 12, passed a resolution seeking its withdrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-governor-says-proceedings-from-legislative-assembly-not-being-made-available-to-him-101637318127619.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Leopard trapped fortnight after boy found dead in Shimla forest||Two weeks after a leopard mauled a five-year-old boy, Yograj, to death in Shimla’s Down Dale locality, the wildlife wing of the forest department managed to cage a wild cat suspected to be a man-eater. Also read: Repeal of farm laws to impact multiple proceedings in Supreme CourtYograj was lifted from outside his house on Diwali night and his mutilated body was found in the forest two days later, leading to widespread anger. The wildlife wing installed cages in different locations. Trap cameras were set up to track the movement of leopards in localities adjoining the forest areas, including Ramnagar, Kanlog, Tuttikandi, Down Dale and Fagli. Leopards straying into the human habitat is common in the localities adjoining the forest. The forest department’s trap cameras traced five leopards in the localities. “There is one female leopard with three cubs, while another fully grown leopard was on the prowl,” said Ravi Shankar, the divisional forest officer (wildlife), Shimla. The wildlife department had set up a cage in Kanlog locality. The leopard entered the cage on Thursday night and was trapped and later tranquilised. The animal was shifted to the rescue centre at Tuttikandi. “We are not sure whether this is the same leopard that attacked the child or a different one,” Shankar said. Three-and-a-half months ago, a leopard lifted and killed a girl in the locality. “Even in Down Dale, there is no streetlight for safety. We demand the government announce a compensation of ₹10 lakh each to the family members of the children killed in leopard attacks. Leopards have been spotted in Navbhar, Tottu, Kainthu and Ramnagar also,” former mayor Sanjay Chauhan said. The Shimla Nagrik Sabha has been protesting against the forest headquarters, demanding the authorities step up efforts to catch the leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leopard-trapped-fortnight-after-boy-found-dead-in-shimla-forest-101637318228652.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Assam frontline worker Monalisa Sona to take part in Miss Tourism International||A frontline health worker from Assam has been selected to represent the country at the Miss Tourism International beauty pageant to be held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in December.Monalisa Sona, a clinical instructor at the government-run Lakhimpur Medical College and Hospital (LMCH), is among more than 60 contestants from around the world who vie for the top honours at the event that has been held annually since 1994.The 27-year-old Sona, who was born in Doolahat Bazar in Lakhimpur district, had earlier represented the country at the Miss Asia Pacific International pageant in Manila, Philippines.“I was unlucky to have missed out on that crown two years ago. Fortunately, I’ve got another chance to represent my country, and this time I’m going to give it my best shot to win the title,” Sona said.The current Miss Tourism International titleholder is Brazil’s Maria Carolina Balicki Vinharski. Only two Indians have so far bagged the title - Candice Pinto in 2001 and Manasvi Mamgain in 2008.Sona, whose both parents are government school teachers, did her education in Guwahati and Bhubaneswar before working as a clinical instructor while also dabbling in modelling.Also Read: Juhi’s photo of Rekha crowning her Miss India resurfaces, fan says ‘great shot’“I like exploring new opportunities and new places. My aim is to become a good leader in future and be a role model for the youth,” said Sona. “As a clinical instructor, I supervise, conduct classes and take practical tests for other frontline workers.”“The past two years have been a very difficult period for us. We had to work for long hours and without leave. There was also the risk of getting infected by Covid-19 as we had to deal with patients,” she said.Due to Covid-related restrictions, this year’s Miss Tourism pageant will be held virtually, with contestants sending in their videos to the organisers. A shortlist of the top 10 will then likely be invited to Malaysia for the final round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/assam-frontline-worker-monalisa-sona-to-take-part-in-miss-tourism-international-101637316488151.html
19-11-2021||Patna||23-year-old killed during celebratory firing at birthday party near Patna||A 23-year-old man identified as Vicky Kumar was killed after a group of young men allegedly fired celebratory gunshots during a birthday party at Pipra village in the early hours of Friday. No arrests have been made so far.Ramakrishna Nagar police station SHO, Jahangir Alam said that the incident took place at around 3 am when some people were celebrating the birthday party of Ajit Yadav’s son. “The firing took place between 2 am and 3 am. An FIR has been lodged with Ramakrishna Nagar police station against three people who managed to escape after the incident. The police was informed about the crime by the deceased’s family two hours after the youth was declared dead at Patna Medical College and Hospital. Earlier, family members were found running from one hospital to another for treatment,” he added. According to the police, a dance programme was going on at Ajit’s house on the occasion of his son’s birthday at Pipra village. After finishing dinner, Vicky, a resident of Maner, stayed on at night to watch the dance programme. During the programme, some anti-social elements suddenly started firing when a bullet hit Vicky on the head and he fell down. He was immediately taken to a private hospital but he was referred to PMCH. When he was brought to PMCH, doctors declared him dead, police said.Vicky was preparing for competitive examinations and used to stay at his maternal grandfather Dayanand’s house at Pipra village under the same police station. His parents had died a few years ago, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/23yearold-killed-during-celebratory-firing-at-birthday-party-near-patna-101637316309238.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||PM’s move to repeal farm laws beginning of new chapter: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday appreciated the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws on the occasion of the Gurpurb of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev and termed it the beginning of a new chapter. Also read: Repeal of farm laws to impact multiple proceedings in Supreme CourtAfter paying obeisance at the historic Gurdwara Ber Sahib and Hut Sahib in Sultanpur Lodhi on the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Sidhu told the media: “Two major demands have been resolved this week. First, the Kartarpur Corridor was reopened and today the farm laws will be repealed. Punjab should forgive him (Modi). It is the beginning of a new chapter. He credited the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation of 32 farmer unions, and its satyagrah (peaceful protest) for the victory. “Despite attempts to malign and derail the protest, the SKM stood by the truth. The real challenge has just begun. We should have a roadmap for farmers to increase their income as land productivity has been dropping.” Sidhu said that only 1% of people were benefiting from state resources. “Politics has become a business as a result of which our younger generations are migrating to the West due to lack of opportunities. Punjab doesn’t have income as it can’t be run through loans,” he added. Sidhu’s aide and Punjab minister Pargat Singh said that it is a historic victory for farmers. “I congratulate farmers of the whole country for the repeal of farm laws. It is a historic victory for their tenacious struggle. Farmers and people of Punjab, Haryana and UP who led the struggle will always have their names inscribed in history.” The announcement of the repeal of the farm laws comes ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur scheduled to be held early next year. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and UP had arrived at the Delhi border on November 26, 2020, demanding the repeal of three farm laws: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pms-move-to-repeal-farm-laws-beginning-of-new-chapter-sidhu-101637316308080.html
19-11-2021||Noida||Air pollution: ₹12.75 lakh in penalties in Noida, Gr Noida||Contractors and builders were slapped with penalties worth ₹10 lakh in Greater Noida on Thursday for causing pollution, while fines of ₹2.75 lakh were imposed in Noida over violation of construction norms, officials said. Altogether 13 contractors and builders were issued penalties by the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), they said."The penalities were slapped as all sorts of construction has been banned for four days due to high level of pollution in Greater Noida. A total of 13 such offenders were issued fines totalling ₹10 lakh on Wednesday and Thursday," the GNIDA said. GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan has appealed to city residents to support in tackling pollution by not burning waste, increasing plantation and ensuring proper waste management. The Noida Authority said it issued similar penalties in 22 cases, worth ₹2.75 lakh in the city.The penalties were levied for violation of pollution-related guidelines in NCR, it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-pollution-rs-12-75-lakh-in-penalties-in-noida-gr-noida-101637310045083.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Traffic congestion on Mumbai-Pune Expressway due to long weekend||Traffic on Mumbai-Pune Expressway slowed down to a crawl on Friday as a huge number of people from Mumbai and Navi Mumbai went on holiday because of the long weekend. Friday is a holiday due to Guru Nanak Jayanti. This, clubbed with routine offs on Saturday and Sunday, ensured many people a long weekend of three days. Thousands of residents of these cities packed their bags and left for places like Pune, Alibaug, Lonavala, and Mahabaleshwar to enjoy the long weekend. Many others left to their native places in Raigad, Satara, Ratnagiri among others.On Friday the problem started mainly near Khalapur, Khopoli, and some other places in Raigad.Subhash Pujari, assistant police inspector of the state highway traffic said, “The traffic movement is extremely slow as more and more vehicles entered the road after 7.30 am. The problem is mainly on the Mumbai-Pune lane as most of the people are travelling towards Pune. Therefore, we have stopped the heavy vehicles on the sides and allowed the passenger vehicles and cars to go first. For the heavy vehicles, we create ‘golden hours’ and allow them to go whenever the scenario improves. There is, however, no traffic congestion on the Pune-Mumbai lane. We have also deployed extra manpower to tackle the menace.”Another senior office from Raigad police said, “The Mumbai-Pune Expressway usually sees more traffic every Saturday and Sunday. This time the situation is a bit complicated as people have a long weekend ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-congestion-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-due-to-long-weekend-101637312048865.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht hails repeal of farm laws, says ‘tragedy over Sikhs averted’||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws and claimed that with this kind step, the government had “averted a tragedy looming over Sikhs in the country”. Also read: Govt to scrap agricultural laws, but farm protests to continueIn a video statement, he said, “We are happy that PM Narendra Modi has announced to repeal the laws on the auspicious occasion of Guru Nanak’s Parkash purb (birth anniversary). With this, the government has averted a tragedy that seemed to be looming over the Sikhs in the country.” Giani Harpreet Singh said that he was concerned that there were some outfits in the andolan (movement) that were sidelining the Sikh spirit and sentiments which played a key role in this agitation. “Under the garb of these three laws, efforts were being made to create communal divisions by mischievous elements. Some organisations have tried to strengthen their political base using this movement. They tried to weaken Sikh sentiments. They disliked the Sikh symbols appearing in the agitation,” he said. The jathedar said, “There were also some groups which tried to make this battle Sikh vs Indian Government. Not only this, nefarious attempts were also made to make it Sikhs vs Hindus. It would have yielded dire consequences for us in future, had these laws not been repealed.” “I wholeheartedly thank Prime Minister and his government as they have averted a tragedy that seemed to be looming over the Sikhs at the national level. The atmosphere that was being created was fatal for us. By announcing to repeal of the laws, the government has averted this atmosphere with the grace of God,” he said, adding, “We always want Sikhs to live safely in this country. The bond between Sikhs and Hindus is strong and it prevails at present. We have been making efforts to keep this bond strong forever. So, this move is appreciated.” Giani Harpreet Singh said, “No doubt, the loss of life in this agitation cannot be overcome. Besides, the community has paid the most to get these laws repealed. The Sikhs, especially those settled abroad, spent lot of money on this movement. The largest participation in this movement was of Sikhs. Sikhs have made their contribution in this agitation in all forms without taking care of their life and capital. The Government of India also knows this fact that particularly Sikh farmers were deeply disappointed over the three farm laws. That is why it has chosen the day of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak to make this announcement.” Apex gurdwara body the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has also welcomed this decision. “It is a blessing of Guru Nanak Sahib whose Gurpurb we are celebrating today, that the Prime Minister has announced to repeal these laws. Now, protesters will heave a sigh of relief as these laws have taken lives of farmers,” she said. “Punjab and Sikhs have had to pay a big price to get these laws repealed. Who is responsible for it? This is what we were asking the government to do. Yet, I thank the Prime Minister and also the Guru who made him realise the pain of the people,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-hails-repeal-of-farm-laws-says-tragedy-over-sikhs-averted-101637310608520.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Defining moment in history: Parkash Singh Badal on repeal of farm laws||Five-time former Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Friday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the withdrawal of the three farm laws as “a defining moment in history”, and said that it marks a historic day for farmers on the sacred day of Guru Nanak Dev ji’s Prakash Purb. Also read: Five ways in which repeal of farm laws impacts Punjab’s political dynamics“This is the greatest event in the history of farmer struggles all over the world. I thank the great Guru Nanak Devj ji Maharaj and congratulate every farmer working hard in his fields,” said Badal in a statement in Chandigarh. Claiming that farmers were not consulted before enacting these laws, the former chief minister said, “It was the first time in the history of democratic governments that brazen and cruel laws were made without even taking the stakeholders on board. No government should ever do such an insensitive and cruel thing again.” Badal said that PM Modi’s decision will have implications far beyond farmers and will have wide-ranging and long-lasting impact on the struggle for justice for the poor and deprived across the world. He, however, expressed regret over the loss of lives during the struggle. “My first thoughts go to their families. I wish they were here with us to see this day.” He said that tragic events such as the Lakhimpur Kheri violence will remain a blot on the face of the government. He urged central and state governments to stand by the families of the farmers who had died during the agitation and offer them liberal help in the form of government jobs and financial assistance. Advising the government to call leaders of farm organisations and political parties that represent farmers to suggest steps for their welfare, Badal said that justice for farmers is a cause to which his life has been dedicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defining-moment-in-history-parkash-singh-badal-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637308087388.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘It was a political compulsion’: SAD’s Naresh Gujral on repeal of farm laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre in protest against the three contentious farm laws, on Friday said the announcement for repealing the legislation is a “triumph of democracy”. It said the move will augur well for farmers in Punjab.SAD leader Naresh Gujral told HT that his party warned the government that the “my-way-or-the-highway” attitude will not work. “They did not heed our warning. We had told them not to underestimate the willpower of the famers, particularly the Jat Sikhs. What has happened today is the triumph of democracy.”The decision to repeal the three laws has been linked to elections in states including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, where the farmers’ agitation gained much support.Also Read: Govt to scrap agricultural laws, but farm protests to continueGujral said the perception that the BJP has taken care to address a major grievance that the opposition could leverage against is not true. “Do not forget memories are long. Elections are only two months away. People will not forget, those who have suffered will not forget this. This was a political compulsion. They had to do it but I have doubts that it will yield them quick results,” he said.He said the SAD chose to walk away from the NDA because they could not support the BJP when the “farmers had been wronged”. After the farm bills were passed in Parliament in 2020, the SAD, one of the oldest allies of the BJP, quit the NDA and accused the government of not taking on board its concerns against the farm laws. “We are a farmers’ party. All our speeches in Parliament were about sending the bills to a select committee. We told them not to rush. But they were not willing to listen to us. We had no option [but to walkout],” he said.On the impact of the announcement on political formations in Punjab, given the overtures being made by former chief minister Amarinder Singh towards the BJP, Gujral said it was too soon to reach a conclusion. “In a democracy, everybody is free to do what they like. Both are on a weak wicket. So, let’s see how it pans out. Today’s announcement is not an aspirin that you take and the headache goes away immediately. Over 1,000 farmers have lost their lives. It’s been a struggle that has gone on for over a year, so I don’t see making this one announcement will change the entire political scenario,” he said. He also ruled out a reconciliation with the BJP. “Our core committee will meet to plan our future. Right now, I do not see in the immediate future any alignment with the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-was-a-political-compulsion-sad-s-naresh-gujral-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637306887318.html
19-11-2021||Other||Fire in newborn unit of Assam hospital; all 14 babies moved to safety||All 14 newborns admitted at a civil hospital in Assam’s Goalpara district were moved to safety after a fire broke out on Friday morning, officials said. Authorities informed that the fire broke out at 9:30 am at the special newborn care unit of the Goalpara civil hospital following which nurses and other staff there evacuated the babies immediately. “The fire started at one corner of the unit. It is not clear whether it was due to a short circuit or some waste material catching fire. The fire was immediately doused before it could spread,” said Dr Nil Madhab Das, joint director (health), Goalpara. “As soon as the fire started, the nurses present at the spot broke open a window and shifted the newborns out. All the babies are safe and have been admitted to newborn care units of private hospitals in Goalpara town for the time being,” he added. This is the second instance of fire at intensive care units for babies at government hospitals in Assam this month. On November 10, one ventilator of an intensive care unit (ICU) of a pediatric ward in Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh caught fire. The fire, which was caused due to short circuit, was immediately doused and all 10 newborns were moved to another part of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-in-newborn-unit-of-assam-hospital-all-14-babies-moved-to-safety-101637305928031.html
19-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Victory for farmers,’ says Mamata Banerjee on Centre’s move to scrap farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that his government will revoke the three contentious farm laws is a victory for farmers, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday and congratulated them for fighting relentlessly and remaining unfazed “by the cruelty” with which the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) treated them.“This is YOUR VICTORY! My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight,” Banerjee said in a tweet.The West Bengal assembly in January passed a resolution against the laws and Banerjee has been one of the most vocal critics of the legislation. She has repeatedly attacked the BJP-led union government over the laws.Ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) member of Parliament Saugata Roy hailed the day’s events. “This is a big victory for democracy and farmers. We supported the farmers’ protests. It took more than a year for the Modi government to bow down. There are political reasons. The BJP was losing ground in north India,” said Roy.Also Read: PM Modi says will scrap all three farm lawsBanerjee supported the farmers and sent a team of MPs to meet them at the Singhu border protest site near Delhi. Over the phone, she spoke to farmers protesting in the Capital.In June, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, one of the top faces of the farmers’ protest, met Banerjee.State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the BJP government had to bow to the protesting farmers. “The farmers, however, do not trust the present government. They may wait till the laws are repealed in Parliament. This is another failure of the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/victory-for-farmers-says-mamata-banerjee-on-centre-s-move-to-scrap-farm-laws-101637305327614.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions in Punjab, Haryana to wait till farm laws revoked in Parliament||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday welcomed the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for repealing the three farm laws his government passed last year but said it will wait for the laws to be formally repealed in Parliament. Also read: Timeline: Centre to repeal farm laws after a year“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha welcomes this decision and will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures. If this happens, it will be a historic victory of the one-year-long farmers’ struggle in India,” said a joint statement released by the SKM. The statement was signed by Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakkaji and Yudhvir Singh, all office-bearers of different farm organisations part of the SKM. The SKM, an umbrella organisation of 32 farm bodies spearheading the agitation, added that the agitation of farmers is not just for the repeal of the three black laws, but also for a statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers. “This important demand of farmers is still pending. So also, is the withdrawal of the electricity amendment Bill. The SKM will take note of all developments, hold its meeting soon and announce further decisions,” the leaders said. “Nearly 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. The Centre’s obstinacy is responsible for these avoidable deaths, including the murders at Lakhimpur Kheri,” their statement added. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Kokari Kalan termed the repeal of three farm laws a victory of people’s struggle. “People who fought against black laws have won today. We will follow SKM’s decision regarding agitation,” he said. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which is one of the major farm organisations of Punjab, welcomed the PM’s announcement regarding the three farm laws. Its state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “Our organisation hails the move, but it will wait till these laws are revoked in Parliament. Secondly, we shall wait for the government’s decision on the bill providing the farmers guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and the power amendment Bill”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-unions-in-punjab-haryana-to-wait-till-farm-laws-revoked-in-parliament-101637303766968.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five ways in which repeal of farm laws impacts Punjab's political dynamics||The repeal of three contentious farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Gurpurab (the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev) is imbued with huge symbolism for Punjab, which was the epicentre of dogged farmers’ protests for more than a year. The surprise announcement is sure to impact the political dynamics in the poll-bound border state where the assembly election is slated for early next year. Here is how:1. Reprieve for BJP: A closure on the year-old agitation comes as a major breather for the saffron party, which was facing farmers’ ire on the ground in Punjab. The farm laws not only led to rupture of its 24-year-old poll alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which walked out of the National Democratic Alliance government last year, but also made it the target of the wrath of the Sikh peasantry in rural Punjab. Now, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is expected to leverage Modi’s gesture, which came two days after the Centre’s move to reopen the Kartarpur corridor for Sikh pilgrims to Pakistan and regain the ground it lost in the Sikh constituency.2. Congress ups the credit war: The ruling Congress in Punjab, which has consistently opposed the farm laws and passed assembly resolutions rejecting the central legislation twice has been quick to claim credit for “forcing” the Modi government to relent. The Channi government, having already announced a string of populist announcements for rural votes, will make the rollback a centrepiece of its poll pitch in the assembly sweepstakes. In the opposition space, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Akalis will be competing with the Congress in crediting the farmers for “victory”.3. New political equations on the card: The repeal of the laws has opened possibilities of new political alignments and alliances in Punjab. It is a major relief for the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was smarting under the double whammy of the break-up of its alliance with the BJP and a backlash from its core constituency among peasantry for having initially supported the Modi government’s ordinances on farm reforms before the Parliament stamped them as laws. Desperate to be in poll reckoning, the Akalis had forged an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), leaving 20 of 117 assembly seats to the junior partner. But, the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister negated the SAD’s caste card through the BSP. The Akalis can now hope to recover the political ground they lost in their traditional bastion of farmers. But, the key question in Punjab now is: will the SAD and the BJP warm up to each other and again forge an alliance that once welded the Sikh and Hindu constituencies in an electorally formidable way? Political analysts don’t rule that out this possibility.4. Clears the way for Captain-BJP tie-up: The repeal of farm laws opens up the window for a poll tie-up between breakaway Congress leader and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who has floated a new party Punjab Lok Congress and hinted at seat-sharing with the BJP in case there is a resolution of the farm issues. Though Captain’s party is yet to take off, he still has political heft and appeal in both rural and urban pockets of Punjab and will be hoping to woo disgruntled Congress leaders to dent the party he was pushed out of unceremoniously.5. X-factor of farmer organisations: The 32 bodies comprising the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), most of them rooted in Punjab, will be in a triumphant mode over the repeal of the farm laws. But, will they take the electoral plunge to cash in on their victory? So far, they have ruled out contesting polls.But, some of the SKM constituents, named the Rajewal faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, are known to harbour political ambitions and are likely to be wooed by the Congress and the AAP. Farmer unions, buoyed by the success of their tenacious agitation, will be an X-factor at the Punjab hustings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-ways-in-which-repeal-of-farm-laws-impacts-political-dynamics-in-poll-bound-punjab-101637303407099.html
19-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports first Covid-19 death after 3 months||After three months, Rajasthan has reported the first death of Covid-19, a health official said on Thursday.Chief medical and health officer Narrottam Sharma said a two-year-old boy was referred from Chomu town of Jaipur district to a children’s hospital two days back. He added the boy was found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday and was shifted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences. He died the same evening.Children are known to rarely fall seriously ill due to Covid-19 and related mortality among them is even rarer.Sharma said the boy’s family is from Chhattisgarh and his father works as a labourer in Chomu. He added a team of doctors will be sent to Chomu on Friday to collect samples of the rest of the family. The sample of others who came in contact with the family will also be collected.Rajasthan on Thursday reported 18 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 95. Jaipur reported a maximum--12 cases--followed by four in Ajmer and one each in Baran and Pali. There are 61 active cases in Jaipur, 19 in Ajmer, five in Barmer, three in Nagaur, and one each in Alwar, Baran, Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, and Udaipur.The toll from the pandemic in the state has risen to 8,955.The state health department has issued special guidelines amid increasing cases. Health secretary Vaibhav Galaria said during the festive and ongoing wedding season, the protocols were being largely ignored and this has resulted in an increase in the number of cases. Authorities have directed officials to ensure testing, tracking, treatment, and vaccination.Galaria said the officials have been asked to increase testing and to immediately isolate people who come in contact with those infected to ensure that the spread of infection can be stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-reports-first-covid-19-death-after-3-months-101637302687597.html
19-11-2021||Other||Haryana BJP, JJP leaders urge farmers to call off protest after PM’s announcement||The ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana on Friday appealed to farmers to call off their agitation and return home after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of repealing the three contentious farm laws. Also read: ‘It’s a beginning’: Tikait says won’t return until laws repealed in ParliamentHaryana has borne the brunt of the farmers’ agitation for the past one year as the protesters have been camping on the Delhi border at Singhu and Tikri, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. In his address to the nation amid Gurpurb celebrations on the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev’s 552nd birth anniversary, Modi announced that the three farm laws will be repealed in the coming winter session of Parliament. Reacting to the news, state home minister Anil Vij released a video on social media and said, “With Prime Minister Modi announcing that the Centre has decided to repeal the three farm laws, all farmer unions should thank the PM for this decision and call off their agitation. They should go back to their homes and resume their routine work.” Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the decision should be seen as a gift from the Prime Minister to protesting farmers on Gurpurb. He also appealed to the protesting farmers to return to their homes. Dushyant, who is the leader of the Jannayak Janata Party, a BJP ally in the state, told PTI, “I appeal to all protesting farmers to return to their homes and celebrate Gurupurb with their families.” Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also welcomed Modi’s decision. “Better late than never. Now, the government should give a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) outside the mandis (grain markets),” he said. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja congratulated farmers and tweeted: “After a long time, the arrogant BJP government had to bow down before the sacrifice of several farmers. Each word said by (Congress leader) Rahul Gandhi about black laws proved true today. Congratulations to every farmer and labourer.” Reacting to the PM’s decision, INLD general secretary and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, said, “This is the farmers’ win against an arrogant government, whose leaders claimed that these laws can’t be repealed but can only be amended. The farmers have forced the government to take back the three black laws. Now, the government should give a legal guarantee on the MSP, besides giving compensation to deceased farmers ‘ families, a government job and all facilities which are provided to a slain soldier. The farmers died while fighting against these black laws and the central government should give them martyrs’ status.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-bjp-jjp-leaders-urge-farmers-to-call-off-protest-after-pm-s-announcement-101637300587005.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s North Corporation doctors take to protesting again for their salaries||Doctors at hospitals run by Delhi’s North Corporation face salary delays again, with the residents not having received their salaries for three months. The doctors also said that they haven’t received the revised dearness allowance for six months. The resident doctors from Hindu Rao hospital, the largest one under the civic body, which also has an attached medical college, were to go on an indefinite strike Thursday onwards but deferred it keeping in mind a large number of dengue patients at the hospital. “This month there was Diwali and even then we were not paid. To show our protest, we are continuing with a pen-down strike for three hours each day. But, we have deferred an indefinite strike as the patients are the ones who suffer. We hope that we get paid by next week so we do not have to take such a step,” said Dr Chinna Dua, joint secretary of the resident doctors’ association of Hindu Rao hospital. However, it is not just the residents, senior doctors from all five hospitals run by the corporation, the dispensaries, polyclinics, maternity clinics, and TB clinics will also go on a strike after Wednesday next week having not been paid for over two months. Their revised dearness allowance is also pending. “Not only have they not paid us for two months, now going on three, they haven’t increased the dearness allowance as per the Centre’s directive. What is worse is that the corporation has diverted funds from the general provident fund which is our savings. If we want to withdraw our own savings in the time of need, we cannot,” said Dr RR Gautam, president of the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association. He said, the regular payment of salaries has been a long-standing issue at the north corporation and should be resolved. “The hospitals must be handed over to the Delhi or Central government if they are unable to pay our salaries. We should not have to protest every year to get our salaries,” said Dr Gautam. Last October, the doctors went to strike over non-payment of salaries. “Despite being promised multiple times in the past, salary delay issues are persistent at Hindu Rao hospital, Delhi, which is affecting the financial and day-to-day needs of the residents of this hospital. The situation has been brought to the notice of the concerned hospital many times, however, no concrete action has been taken and the problem has become repetitive,” the doctors wrote in their letter to the nion health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-corporation-doctors-take-to-protesting-again-for-their-salaries-101637299029038.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid positivity rate sees declining trend, under 1% since Nov 10||Maharashtra on Thursday added 963 new Covid-19 infections and 24 fatalities. The daily positivity rate of Covid-19 infections continued to remain under 1% for the ninth day straight on Thursday at 0.82%. In the first 18 days of the month, Maharashtra reported under-1000 cases for 13 days. In the five days when the state saw over-1000, the cases ranged between 1,193 (on November 3) and 1,003 (on November 17), data showed.Mumbai reported 226 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 761,222. It recorded one fatality, pushing the death toll to 16,300. Since November 11, Mumbai reported under-300 cases, including November 15, where it recorded 182 infections.The state’s active case count was 11,732, while Mumbai’s active caseload was 3,588 on Thursday. The daily positivity rate in the state has been under 1% since November 10. The positive rate ranged between 0.82% (on Thursday) to 0.92% (on November 11). Over the last two weeks, the daily positivity rate has seen a declining trend. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 116,783 samples and had a positivity rate of 0.82%. So far, the state has tested 6,43,84,736 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 10.29%.A senior official from the health department said that the state is testing over 100,000 samples, and it has not witnessed any spurt in cases, especially in the festive season. “Our tests have not gone down, except during the Diwali weekend. We are testing over one lakh samples daily. And it is a good sign that we continue to see a declining trend,” he said, requesting anonymity.A chunk of the new cases continued to be recorded from Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts. Municipal Corporations in MMR (excluding Mumbai) cumulatively reported 158 cases and 11 deaths. Pune district, meanwhile, recorded 248 new cases and two deaths on Thursday. Nashik district reported 51 cases, while Ahmednagar reported 91 new cases and six deaths. Aurangabad had 38 cases, while Satara had 30 new cases on Thursday.Marathwada’s Beed district had 18 new cases. Cities and districts in the Vidarbha continued to report new infections in single digits; some even saw no new cases. Amravati, Washim, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, and Gadchiroli had no new cases on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-positivity-rate-sees-declining-trend-under-1-since-nov-10-101637293987111.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor category” on Friday morning as overcast weather was expected in the city while the minimum temperature was likely to be 12 degrees Celsius.According to Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am was 369. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Union earth sciences ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said the AQI was likely to improve but remain in the same category for the next two days as transport-level winds were coming from the east preventing intrusion of any pollutants from the stubble burning region. “Local surface winds are low and mixing layer height is above 1 km resulting in moderate ventilation of near-surface pollutants. From 21st (Sunday) onwards surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality.” It said the effective farm fire count was 773 and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 was negligible.India Meteorological Department said the maximum temperature will reach 27 degrees Celsius on Friday. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 11 degrees Celsius and maximum of 27 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-101637292366799.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Gopal Rai says 69% air pollution due to sources outside city||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday urged his Union government counterpart to hold a meeting and formulate a joint action plan to tackle sources of pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR) that were impacting Delhi.Citing data from a Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) analysis carried out for the period between October 24 and November 8, Rai said local sources contributed only 31% of the pollution load in Delhi and the remaining 69% originated the NCR towns. Rai also referred to a 2018 TERI source apportionment study which found that local sources were responsible for 36% of the total air pollution in Delhi.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, Delhi has witnessed the second worst post-Diwali pollution episode since 2015 when the AQI record keeping began. The city recorded its worst pollution spell in 2016 when a dense smog had enveloped the city. The state government announced emergency measures on Saturday, but only after a nudge by the Supreme Court and the pollution levels hitting severe levels.So far, only meteorological factors -- mostly improved wind speed -- has helped flush out pol-lutants in the city.CSE carried out its analysis using Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) Decision Support System (DSS). It found that for the two weeks , Delhi’s own sources of pollution contributed to 31% of its total PM 2.5 load, 54.5% came from 19 nearby NCR districts and the remaining 14.5% was from stubble burning.The minister added that the state government has been trying to meet the Union environment minister and discuss the importance of preparing a joint action plan for NCR.“The Delhi government has constantly been working to reduce the pollution from Delhi. But no matter how hard the people of Delhi try, controlling the 70% external pollution is out of their hands. Therefore, I have repeatedly requested the union environment minister to have a meeting to frame a joint action plan. Until we formulate this plan and set in place teams to monitor its implementation, Delhi and its people will not be free from pollution.” he added.Commenting on the study, an expert said the contribution of local sources doe not remain constant, and it keeps changing depending on the meteorological conditions.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at CSE, who was also part of the analysis, explained,”During this two-week period, the contribution of Delhi’s own sources was 30%. But this can change, and it may go up to 70%. The point we are trying to make is that there is a need to work on the region as a whole, as Delhi’s pollution impacts NCR and vice-versa,” she said.Sachin Ghude from IITM, who is handling the DSS, said the contribution of external sources may vary at different times of the year.“There is a possibility that dust winds are coming from north-western India and outside Delhi. There is also a lot of trans-boundary movement of pollutants within NCR states as the area is one large airshed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gopal-rai-says-69-air-pollution-due-to-sources-outside-city-101637272528604.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claimed more lives in Mohali urban areas||Though Covid-19 cases saw a decline since June this year in Mohali, the district reported 1,070 deaths and 68,895 cases ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. As per the data, a maximum, 62% of deaths were reported from Mohali urban, while 49% of people died under the age group of 61 to 80, and out of total 1,070 deaths, 999 (94%) deaths are from urban areas of the district. The maximum number of deaths, 373, was reported in May this year, which contributed to 35% of the total deaths. Also, out of the total 1,070 deaths, 657 men died, while 413 women succumbed to the virus. Also, around 22% of people have failed to turn up for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, which was due in September this year. The vaccination drive has slowed down amid a dip in Covid-19 cases in the district. While the health department has inoculated 100% of the targeted population with the first dose, only 56% have been fully vaccinated. The total eligible population of Mohali is 7, 46,119 according to the growth estimates based on the 2011 census. However, 8, 79,161 people, including migrants and those from neighbouring cities, have got the first dose. In comparison, only 421,582 have got the second jab. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said, “The maximum deaths were reported in May this year as it was the peak of the disease. Now, the cases and deaths have drastically come down, but we are requesting people to come for their second dose of vaccination as we fear the third wave.” Nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, said, “The sampling in the district has not decreased and we have ensured round-the-clock availability of the sampling team at the district hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claimed-more-lives-in-mohali-urban-areas-101637271664879.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s AQI turns poor for few hours due to western disturbance||With a western disturbance active in the city on Thursday, the air quality index (AQI), which had remained below 200 since the day after Diwali, November 5, went past 200 for a few hours on Thursday. The effects of the western disturbance are likely to stay for about a day more as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).At the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22 the average AQI for 24 hours went up from 181 at 12 noon to 245 at 1:00 pm on Thursday. It peaked at 278 at 2:00 pm and came below 200 at 5:00 pm.Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “North westerly winds blowing in the region had kept the air quality from going bad due to the city’s unique location at the foothills of Himalyas. With western disturbances (WD), the effect of easterly winds takes over, which affected the air quality of the city.” Even during Diwali, these winds had cleaned the city’s air in a matter of hours from severe to the moderate bracket.Between 200 and 300, the AQI is considered poor and causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The effects of the WD will also continue on Friday so similar worsening in the air quality of the city can be expected.The air quality was poorer in centrally located station of Sector 22. AQI remained below 120 at the CAAQMS in Sector 25 which is located more towards the periphery of the city.The warmer easterly winds also affected the minimum temperature of the city. Minimum temperature went up from 10 degrees on Wednesday to 10.9 degrees on Thursday. Maximum temperature meanwhile went down from 26.7 degrees on Wednesday to 26.2 degrees on Thursday. Although rain will remain unlikely because of the WD, minimum temperature can rise upto 12 degrees in the next three days while maximum temperature is likely to stay around 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-aqi-turns-poor-for-few-hours-due-to-western-disturbance-101637271604102.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Six inspectors assigned DSP charges||After formation of new police subdivisions on Wednesday, the Chandigarh police gave the charge of six deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) to inspectors, temporarily till the new DSPs are appointed. The ‘look-after charge’ of routine duties of the DSPs were first issued to seven inspectors by the UT adviser against three vacant posts. This was issued on November 11 and further sent to the police officials on November 17. The ‘look-after charge’ has been assigned to seven inspectors on the condition that it is not taken as precedent for the future in normal circumstances, and these inspectors will not be authorised for statutory duties of the DSP. This will be a temporary measure till the administration fills these vacant posts on a regular basis. Officials will not get additional pay or claim any additional benefits like seniority or allowances and the arrangement can be discontinued at any time. As per a further order issued by superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Meena, inspector Gurjeet Kaur will look after the charge of DSP (traffic), inspector Shri Prakash will look after the charge of assistant commandant of the IRB, inspector Dilbagh Singh will look after the charge of DSP PCR, inspector Manju will look after the charge of DSP (welfare center), inspector Jaswinder Kaur will look after the charge of DSP (training) and inspector Barjinder Singh will look after the charge of DSP (communication). This move comes after the formation of a new district crime cell in the city on Wednesday. Two more crime subdivisions have also been added to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-six-inspectors-assigned-dsp-charges-101637270884053.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Vinay Pratap Singh takes charge as Chandigarh DC||Vinay Pratap Singh, a 2011-batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre, on Thursday took over as the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Chandigarh. After joining, Singh said, “As deputy commissioner, my priorities will be to ease in delivery of public services by re-engineering the administration’s internal processes and improving government-citizen interface by induction of appropriate technologies, including IT, mobile communications, GIS, block chain etc.”Endeavour will be to ensure services with prescribed timelines as a matter of right to service, he said.“I would also like to involve civil society, student bodies, public representatives etc with administration to incorporate new ideas & feedback to further improve public amenities. In a course of time, would like to identify important issues and administration’s priorities and focus on them. Digitisation work started in estate office will be completed and expanded to other departments in my responsibility,” he added.Singh will also hold the charge of district magistrate, estate officer, labour commissioner, president, zila sainik welfare board, controller, civil defence, secretary, agriculture marketing board, director, agriculture, additional chief electoral officer, chairman, Wakf Board, commissioner, excise and taxation, and registrar cooperative societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vinay-pratap-singh-takes-charge-as-chandigarh-dc-101637270464076.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||38 new dengue cases in Chandigarh tricity area||Dengue cases continued to see a dip with 38 infections surfacing in the tricity on Thursday, of which the maximum, 22, were reported from Chandigarh, followed by 12 from Mohali and six in Panchkula. A day before, the tricity had 46 cases. The dip in cases is said to be due to dipping temperatures. No dengue death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions.6 fresh Covid infections in tricityThe daily Covid-19 infection tally continues to fluctuate in tricity with six fresh infections on Thursday against the nine cases on Wednesday. Three patients tested positive in Chandigarh while two infections were reported in Mohali and one in Panchkula.So far in November, Mohali has reported two Covid-related fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula. On Thursday too, no fatality was reported in tricity.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 83, with 47 patients still being infected in Mohali, 28 in Chandigarh, and 8 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/38-new-dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101637270283956.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||This government ‘smart’ school in Mohali has a single teacher for all classes||Declared a smart school two years ago, the Government Elementary School in Bhikandi village of Majri block in Mohali, has been functioning with just one teacher for over 80 students for the last five months. Till July this year, the school had three teachers. Two of them were transferred, leaving the lone teacher to take care of all classes (up to Class-5). The school doesn’t even have a headmaster, so the administrative duties also fall upon this lone teacher.Nirmal Singh, a village resident and a parent, said, “The only teacher here goes from one class to another, haphazardly covering bits and portions of the syllabus, leaving the students confused.”He added, “Even though the Right to Education Act mandates provision of a primary school (up to Class 5) within 1km of the village’s area and an upper primary school (up to Class 8) within 3km, children of Bhikandi are forced to travel 8km for classes beyond Class 5. The nearest senior secondary school is 12km away, due to which girls often drop out after Class 10 and sometimes, even boys don’t pursue education beyond Class 12.”Village sarpanch Pal Singh said, “We have written to the authorities concerned several times but to no avail. Last year, our children suffered due to the pandemic, this year, the lack of teachers is going to affect their studies.”Mohali district education officer (DEO, primary), Baljinder Singh said, “There is a shortage of teachers, but our recruitment process is in process. We will be sending teachers to the said school by next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-government-smart-school-in-mohali-has-a-single-teacher-for-all-classes-101637270044028.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Contractor seeks double fare to ply whole fleet of Ludhiana buses||Amid the continuing deadlock between the city bus contractor and the municipal corporation officials over the limited number of city buses plying on the roads, the contractor has proposed to deploy the entire fleet of 83 buses, provided the fare is doubled. The proposal was tabled during a meeting of the contractor, Jaskirat Singh, and additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal at the civic body’s Zone-A office on Thursday. Citing the rising price of diesel, the contractor has proposed ₹10 for a 5-km journey, ₹19 for a distance of 5 to 10km, ₹29 for 10-15km and ₹1 per kilometre beyond it. At present, the fare is ₹5 for 5km, ₹10 for 10km, ₹15 for 15km and ₹20 for a distance of 20km. A final call will be taken by senior officials, including mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. The contractor said diesel was priced at ₹48 per litre when they entered into a contract with the municipal corporation in 2015. However, the rates had now almost doubled due to which it was difficult to run the buses without increasing the fare.The officials’ grouse is that the contractor has been merely running a dozen buses on two routes. However, the contractor has refused to run more buses, citing losses, a claim which authorities are sceptical about, resulting in the deadlock. The authorities have also demanded that the contractor clear his dues, amounting to ₹3 crore. Buses are the only public transport in the city. Of the 120 buses purchased under the project, 83 have been handed over to the contractor. Of these, only a dozen are running on city roads, while the others are gathering dust at the depot. The 37 buses with the MC are also stabled. In a nutshellThe contractor says the rate of fuel has almost doubled, necessitating revision of fare. Distance Present fare Proposed fare 5km ₹5 ₹10 10km ₹10 ₹1915km ₹15 ₹29||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractor-seeks-double-fare-to-ply-whole-fleet-of-ludhiana-buses-101637269924062.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||High court tells Chandigarh not to notify MC election schedule till November 23||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has told Chandigarh administration not to notify the schedule of municipal corporation (MC) elections till November 23.The oral directions were given by the bench of justice Ritu Bahri and justice Karamjit Singh while hearing pleas against the reservation roster notified by UT on October 19.The UT administration on Thursday failed to respond to the plea filed by one Shiv Kumar on October 27 even as matter was adjourned from Wednesday to Thursday while asking UT to file its response. During the resumed hearing on Thursday, it came to light that the counsel who was appearing in the matter was suddenly changed. The new lawyer, who appeared before the court could not file a response even as petitioners contended that it was being delayed deliberately and notification for December polls could be issued anytime now and in view of that the plea would become infructutous.The court took serious note of the matter and called for Anil Mehta, the counsel who was appearing till Wednesday, and also summoned Legal Remembrance (LR), Vijay James to the court for afternoon hearing. The LR and other officials then were asked as to why an affidavit, clarifying as to how the population has been adjusted while increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35, has not been filed for which order was issued on November 9. It was also asked as to how response has not been filed to the plea filed on October 27.In view of this, the court while posting the matter for November 23 has asked UT to respond to the issues raised and not to issue formal notification till then. “Detailed order is awaited. However, during the proceedings, the court orally asked Chandigarh administration not to issue the notification for polls,” Mehta added.It is to be recalled here that UT does not have a senior standing counsel, the top law officer in high court on civil side since October 28, after elevation of justice Pankaj Jain as additional judge of HC. The cases are assigned to different lawyers by the Senior Standing Counsel. However, in the case in hand, the decision to change the counsel was taken by administration on Wednesday, a day before the hearing.There are two pleas on the issue one filed by Shiv Kumar, a resident of sector-42 on October 25 and second plea filed on November 17 by one Dhanas resident, Prem Pal. The pleas argue that reservation of wards notification should be done after excluding the population of the colonies not existing presently or partly demolished. It demands fresh notification on reservation of wards. The polls are slated for mid-December and tenure of MC ends on December 31. The officials had been maintaining that the notification would be issued by November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-tells-chandigarh-not-to-notify-mc-election-schedule-till-november-23-101637269685118.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||18-kg poppy straw found on train at Ludhiana railway station||Around 18-kg poppy straw was found in an unattended trunk on the Dadar Express, which runs from Mumbai to Amritsar, at the Ludhiana railway station on Wednesday.The trunk with the contraband was placed near the coach of the driver and guard. The driver, on noticing the unattended iron trunk, alerted assistant sub-inspector Ranjot Singh of the Government Railway Police, after which its contents were checked at the Ludhiana railway station. A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act. So far, the GRP has confiscated around 135-kg poppy straw this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18kg-poppy-straw-found-on-train-at-ludhiana-railway-station-101637269683895.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||SKM, PAU teachers’ body demand registrar's appointment be stalled||Alleging that the appointment of the Punjab Agricultural University registrar is politically driven, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has demanded that the appointment be nullified and fresh interviews be initiated for the post. The famers’ body has also sought the intervention of the Punjab chief minister and agriculture minister. SKM member Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “We have demanded the appointment of a technocrat as vice-chancellor of the varsity. The post has been lying vacant since July. We have learnt that attempts are being made to appoint a registrar who supports the BJP and RSS. This will not be allowed.” “We had met the CM and he has agreed to cancel the appointment till a regular V-C is appointed,” said Rajewal.PAUTA moves courtMeanwhile, the PAU Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) also filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court asking that the appointment of a new registrar be stalled. Teachers’ association president Harmeet Singh Kingra and secretary KS Sangha said, “While unemployment is on the rise, retired persons continue to be given meaty posts on a contractual basis. We demand that someone who is serving and has not obtain superannuation should be appointed.”PAUTA members will go on strike and stall the working of the government, if a registrar is appointed before hiring a regular V-C. At present, the post is held by Dr RS Sidhu, who retired in August 2018. He has received four extensions and his one-month extension will end on November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-pau-teachers-body-demand-registrar-s-appointment-be-stalled-101637269324147.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two minors held for raping 15-year-old girl in Balongi||Balongi police have arrested two minor boys, aged 16 and 13, for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in Belolpur village of Balongi area in Kharar.Investigating officer, Bawinder Sharma said the victim knew the accused as they were neighbours.The victim’s elder sister, who is the complainant, said the two boys had befriended the minor and then raped her. The victim lives with her sister here as their parents, both labourers, live in Uttar Pradesh. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered against the accused. Both were produced in the local court, from where they were sent to the observation centre in Hoshiarpur in Punjab, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-minors-held-for-raping-15-year-old-girl-in-balongi-101637269144414.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly man slits wrist, jumps into canal in Ludhiana; wife booked||A 62-year-old man ended his life by slitting his wrist and jumping into a canal near the Kalyan Canal Bridge on Wednesday.His body was fished out from the canal near Jarwana Canal bridge. His wife was booked for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the victim’s sister, who lives in Kharar. The complainant, said that her brother was living in Aandlu village of Raikot with his wife, and the couple has no child. She said the accused wanted her brother to transfer the ownership of his land to her family members, and also stopped him from leaving the house. On Wednesday, her brother left the house in his car and upon reaching Kalyan Bridge, he slit his wrist and then jumped into the canal. Locals alerted the police. Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh said the police had booked the victim’s wife for abetment to suicide. The victim had returned from the US after spending many years on foreign soil.The complainant said her brother had shared her travails with her when she had visited him on Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-man-slits-wrist-jumps-into-canal-in-ludhiana-wife-booked-101637269023934.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||UK to assist Chandigarh in developing ‘sustainable’ mass transit system||In a major push to create eco-friendly transportation in the city, the United Kingdom will provide technical assistance to develop “sustainable mobility plan” for the city.The broad objective of the UK-funded study is to provide support for de-carbonising the city’s transport and contribute towards the climate change agenda. The study will also focus on suggesting alternative eco-friendly transport system for the city.Roping in the UK technical assistance is part of the UT administration’s fresh move to have a comprehensive mobility plan for the city. Complimenting the UK study, which will focus on the city, another study, to be conducted by the Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES), will cover the entire tricity and explore different Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) options for the city.“The UK-funded study will provide support for de-carbonising the city’s transport and contribute towards the climate change agenda. The study will also focus on suggesting alternative eco-friendly transport system for the city,” said a senior UT official.The study aims to deliver a ‘concept report for Chandigarh’ which will include an “As is Scenario” of city transportation. It will highlight the socio-economic profile, traffic, transportation characteristics, emission levels and also the key challenges and areas of intervention for de-carbonisation and EV transition. Under the UK study, a detailed road map will be prepared to increase the uptake of e-mobility. Also, under the project, action plan and timelines for roll out will be created. Industry-government engagement to deliberate on roadmap will be done.The project also includes a component of city twinning with a UK city. A framework for city twinning, based on the priorities of both sides and knowledge exchange visits, between cities will be carried out. The inception of the idea for UK technical assistance happened during the meeting between the UT adviser Dharam Pal and the British deputy high commissioner Caroline Rowett over a month ago.On Thursday, the administration was informed that UK government has given “in-principle” approval to the project. The adviser gave his concurrence to the study after a meeting with DHC representatives.In a meeting, various aspects of the scope of the study to be conducted were discussed. Madhuchhanda Mishra from British deputy high commission apprised the officers that the project would be funded by UK for a duration of 12 months and will tentatively start from January 2022. The project will be implemented by ICF consultingALL MRTS OPTIONS ON TABLE Commenting on the RITES report, Pal, said, “The studies will examine which is the best MRTS model for the city. It can also be a hybrid model incorporating different systems like monorail, light metro for the city and metro for the tricity.” After years in cold storage, the mass rapid transport system (MRTS) plans were revived in August this year by the administration after it decided to go in for a fresh study on the comprehensive mobility plan for the city.The earlier RITES report, prepared more than a decade ago, was found to be outdated as the city’s requirements changed drastically during this period and also, the guidelines set by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry of the MRTS project changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uk-to-assist-chandigarh-in-developing-sustainable-mass-transit-system-101637268783967.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Six months after father’s death, teen ends life, uncle booked||Six months after her father’s death, a 17-year-old girl ended her life at her house in Dhaula village of Meharban on Wednesday. The victim left a suicide note blaming her uncle for forcing her to take the extreme step. However, she does not mention in what manner was she harassed. In her note the teen said that she felt that her death will be celebrated by everybody. However, her elder uncle was solely responsible for her taking extreme step. She also wrote that everyone will die. Her uncle was booked for abetment of suicide on the complaint of his younger brother. Assistant sub-inspector Surinder Pal, who is investigating the case, said the girl’s father had died six months ago after an illness. The accused has not been arrested yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-six-months-after-father-s-death-teen-ends-life-uncle-booked-101637268303949.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 10-year-old boy dies in road mishap at Nagar Kirtan||A 10-year-old boy, who was part of a Nagar Kirtan procession, died after he fell off the tractor-trailer he was travelling in after sudden breaks were applied on Thursday. The complainant, Karnail Singh Tatla, a resident of Vikas Nagar, said the boy, Prince, was a part of the procession being carried out to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.  The driver of the tractor trailer, Swarn Singh, a resident of Kanchan Colony, Pakhowal Road, was allegedly left behind and sped up to catch up with the convoy. However, he suddenly braked after reaching the convoy, causing Prince to lose his balance and hit his head. He was killed on the spot. Assistant sub-inspector Sanjiv Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), and 304-A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-10-year-old-boy-dies-in-road-mishap-at-nagar-kirtan-101637267943858.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Public Service Commission official, 2 others held for graft; ₹1 crore seized||The vigilance bureau on Thursday arrested the deputy secretary of Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and two others for allegedly manipulating the marks of candidates who appeared in the written examination for recruitment of dental surgeons, conducted on September 26, 2021, and recovered ₹1 .07 crore from the officer’s residence.The arrested persons include HPSC deputy secretary, Anil Nagar, a Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer; Ashwani Sharma, a resident of Jhajjar, and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani. Nagar is a 2016-batch officer, who came was posted as HPSC deputy secretary in March 2021. Earlier, he was posted as joint director, administration, secondary education, Haryana, and deputy secretary to government, Haryana, school education department.The FIR was registered on November 17, following which a raid was conducted on Thursday.SP vigilance said they got a tip-off that the marks were manipulated and bribe was taken by a senior official of HPSC.Following this, a trap was laid and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani, was caught red-handed while accepting ₹20 lakh cash. Naveen is a government employee but works in another department. He was produced before the court on November 18 and sent to four-day police custody.Based on Naveen’s confession and other evidence obtained during investigation, the vigilance officials arrested Ashwani Sharma, a resident of Jhajjar, and seized ₹1.07 crore during a search at his house.A senior officer in the vigilance bureau said that Ashwani Sharma is a private player. “He is a private player, who received money on behalf of Nagar. Hence, once the money was recovered from him, we asked him to call Nagar and fix a meeting to hand over the cash,” said the officer. Then as Anil Nagar, received the money, he was arrested and same amount was recovered from his residence. “Following further investigation, the vigilance arrested Anil Nagar, HCS, deputy secretary, HPSC. Search at the residence of one of his associates is going on, resulting in recovery of more cash,” officials said. There is a possibility of the involvement of more people, officials said. The trio will be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-public-service-commission-official-2-others-held-for-graft-rs-1-crore-seized-101637267643862.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Moga MLA, mayor stage protest against attack on councillor by sanitation workers||The Congress’s Moga MLA Harjot Kamal and city mayor Nitika Bhalla along with her deputies and party councillors on Thursday staged a protest at the municipal corporation (MC) office against an alleged attack on a councillor by the protesting sanitation workers a day before. The MLA threatened to intensify the protest and move the Punjab and Haryana high court, if required, if police failed to take action. Kamal and the mayor were accompanied by senior deputy mayor Praveen Pina and deputy mayor Ashok Dhamija and other councillors. Kamal said with the assembly elections around the corner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders are instigating the sanitation worker unions and misleading them to tarnish the Congress’ image. “Since the opposition has no issue to rake up, they are fabricating issues even at the cost of health of people,” the MLA said. The protesters also sought an FIR against those responsible for turning the city dirty and closing the MC offices, under sections of the Epidemic Act and for obstructing public servants from discharging their duty.On Wednesday, the protesting workers allegedly attacked Congress councillor Praveen Makkar when he reached the civic body office. The MLA said, “To end the strike, I had arranged a meeting of worker unions with the local government minister who assured to meet their genuine demands. But some of their demands were not reasonable. They wanted regularisation according to their list and set up new dumpsites.” They also handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police (SSP) seeking action against the unions.Garbage remained unattended across the city for a couple of days as sanitation workers were on an indefinite strike for their demands. The protesters had locked all the MC offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-mla-mayor-stage-protest-against-attack-on-councillor-by-sanitation-workers-101637267224652.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Inebriated ASI threatens to shoot hospital staff in Ludhiana, held||An inebriated assistant sub-inpector found himself on the wrong side of law after he threatened to kill the Samrala civil hospital staff on Wednesday night. The accused cop, Parminder Singh of Rajewal village, who is in-charge of the Kithlu Nagar police post, was arrested on Thursday after the hospital staff staged a protest, demanding action against the “out-of-line cop.” The complainant, Dr Osho Balagan, said the ASI created a ruckus at the Samrala civil hospital and misbehaved with the staff and doctors on night duty. When the staff objected to his antics, the cop, who was in civilian clothes, threatened to shoot them all dead. Later, the cop started filming the staff and threatened to send the video to the Punjab chief minister, recommending action against them. The staff alerted the Samrala police who had a tough time restraining the cop. Later, the staff staged a protest alleging police inaction against the erring cop. Police officials say the ASI had been absent from duty on the day of the incident. Sub-inspector Parkash Masih, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 427 (damages) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inebriated-asi-threatens-to-shoot-hospital-staff-in-ludhiana-held-101637267164524.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three arrested for killing 18-year-old Amritsar youth||Police on Thursday arrested three persons for allegedly killing an eighteen-year-old youth from Beas whose body was found in Noordi canal on the Amritsar-Chabhal road on September 16. The accused were identified as Gurnam Singh, alias Shera, Navraj Singh and Vikram Singh, all in their early twenties, of the Kot Khalsa area in Amritsar. Varinder Kaur, the mother of victim Prabhjit Singh, who had gone missing since August 22, suspected that he might be abducted and killed by someone. The Beas station house officer (SHO) initiated a probe and Prabhjit’s body was found from the canal subsequently. A case under Section 302 (murder) was registered against unidentified person(s) after the recovery of the body. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Rakesh Kaushal said, “We found in our probe that Prabhjit had been in contact with the three suspects who are drug addicts. They were questioned on the basis of suspicion. On August 22, the trio accused took drugs along with the victim. The accused revealed that after taking drugs, the victim’s condition deteriorated and he died. They threw his body in the canal out of fear.” The accused will be produced in court seeking their police remand for further questioning, the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-arrested-for-killing-18-year-old-amritsar-youth-101637266984223.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 years on, Guru Nanak museum, Smart City works fail to take shape in Sultanpur Lodhi||A museum on Guru Nanak and several development projects under the Smart City project announced by the Punjab government on the first Sikh master’s 550th birth anniversary in 2019 have failed to move beyond the procedural or tendering process even after 2 years. The 552th birth anniversary of the Guru Nanak will be celebrated on Friday. Officials said the Punjab government had set up a seven-member of committee for conceptualising the central-sponsored project to build the museum, Pind Babe Nanak Da, a replica of Rai Bhoi Di Talwandi (now in Pakistan), the village where Guru Nanak was born. It took the state two years to get in-principle approval from the Centre for setting up the museum in April this year following which the Punjab government floated tenders to hire a consultancy firm to design the museum. Shiv Dullar Singh Dhillon, a former IAS officer who is supervising the project, said, “We did not find a suitable consultant for the project and have floated a tender for the same again. The Punjab government has promised to build the best museum for the devotees. Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said the administration has completed the process to acquire the land for the museum but they are yet o receive funds from the tourism department. “At least 43-acre land was identified at Macchijova and Taraf Hazi villages in Sultanpur Lodhi for acquisition,” Uppal added. Many projects still in tendering stage In February this year, the then Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh initiated development works worth ₹134.18 crore under the Smart City project for Sultanpur Lodhi to strengthen the basic infrastructure and road connectivity to facilitate the pilgrims. Under the Smart City project, two main roads, including the one connecting Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi via Fatudhinga will to be made 4 lane at a cost of ₹77 crore. Also, the Dadwindi-Sultanpur Lodhi road will be widened at ₹26 crore.Besides, the construction of parks and open spaces along the banks of the holy Bein will be undertaken at ₹26 crore. Also, a fire-control facility is to be set up with the latest technology at ₹2 crore. Congress’ Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said that the installation of solar panels at government offices is almost at completion stage whereas the work on sewage treatment plants was underway. “We admit that there has been delay in the implementation of the projects, especially the museum. The public works department (PWD) has floated tenders for the two road projects and work will soon start,’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-years-on-guru-nanak-museum-smart-city-works-fail-to-take-shape-in-sultanpur-lodhi-101637266806319.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Darkness reigns in Ward 11 of Chandigarh||If there is light at the end of the tunnel, this ward is in search of it—figuratively and literally. Having several dark stretches due to defunct streetlights, women of ward 11, which has a woman councillor, say they feel unsafe to venture out after sunset. A general ward, which includes Sectors 18, 19 and 21, residents here also complain of stray dog menace, poor sanitation and contaminated water supply. They also have grouse against councillor Asha Jaswal, who they claim, has barely ever visited their ward after winning the elections in 2017 and term her “highly unapproachable”.Bhupinder Singh Gill, president, residents’ welfare association (RWA), Sector 19-D said: “I will give zero marks to sanitation in this sector. Sanitation workers don’t collect garbage from parks. The municipal corporation has failed to manage its sanitation workers; as a result, the area is in a mess.”He added, “There was a community parking area near Maharashtra Bhawan but now instead of vehicles, you will find the space covered by 3-ft long wild grass.”Gill also raised the issue of contaminated water supply. Another resident from Sector 19-B said, “Asha Jaswal has never visited our sector to know the problems of residents. She came only once – during elections to seek votes. After winning, she stopped taking residents’ calls.”Pradeep Chopra, general secretary, Sector 21 RWA, said, “Basically, there is no coordination between the municipal corporation’s different departments. One team cuts grass and leaves it outside the park. The other department, which is supposed to collect it, visits after a gap of three to four days.” He added that by the time, the team comes to collect the horticulture waste left outside parks, passers-by also add to the garbage. “Our councillor had promised that an alternative place would be found for the meat and mechanics market, but that plan has never seen the light of the day,” Chopra added. RP Gupta, a businessman from Sector 18 market, said, “The president of the market association is from BJP, so he got a lot of work done with the support of Asha Jaswal. We are grateful for a lot of pending work that has been completed in the sector.”Kamaljit Panchi, general secretary, Sector 18 A, said, “A major problem in the sector is of stray dogs. Residents of all three sectors in this ward have complained about the menace. My wife and daughter have even stopped going for evening walks.”Another resident of Sector 18 said, “Streetlights in majority of the parks are lying defunct and several stretches get pitch dark after sunset. Even the stretch next to Tagore Theatre isn’t well lit. I feel like inviting the councillor and asking her to take a round of the sector at night. Perhaps, then, she might realise the problems being faced by women.”Asha Jaswal, councillor, said she had promised that she will not seek votes by apologising but by fulfilling the promise. “I have fulfilled all promises as mentioned in the manifesto. As far as the issue of stray dogs is concerned, I cannot do much as our hands are bound by the central government rules.”“I agree there is a delay in picking horticulture waste, but we are working on it and soon, the problem will be resolved. Electric lights have been repaired in most parks, except two or three. Those will be repaired too,” she said.Jaswal said she has been visiting the sectors, and holds meetings with residents. She said she has even made Whatsapp groups to take residents’ complaints and is quite accessible.KNOW YOUR WARD:Localities: Sector 18, 19, 21General ward15,000 votersKEY ISSUES:1.Defunct streetlights and dark stretches2.Poor sanitation2. Garbage dumps on footpaths next to parks3. Stray dogs4. Inaccessible councillorLocal voicesRL Goyal, resident, Sector 19 B: The main problem is lack of cleanliness. Trees are not pruned, parks are not maintained, garbage is not collected on time and areas behind houses are left unclean because of which water stagnates and vector-borne diseases like dengue spread. Jaswinder Sharma, resident, Sector 18: Nearly two months ago, I was attacked by stray dogs when I was about to enter a park next to our house. Even today, a stray dog growled at my maid’s daughter, who got too scared to enter her own house. Dr JC Verma, resident, Sector 21 A: Sanitation is a major issue. Earlier, the responsibility was with the RWA so it was managed well. The charges were less and garbage was collected from houses regularly. Now, the workers come on their own time. They come after several days to collect garbage from sectors. Kuldeep Singh Gill, sector 21 B resident: RWA should be allowed to take care of the cleanliness of the sector as the MC has failed to do so. There was a broken “rehri” parked in one of the parks. After permission, I spent ₹2,000 on it and started using it for collecting garbage. But one day, the councillor asked me to return that repaired vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/darkness-reigns-in-ward-11-of-chandigarh-101637266625071.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three booked for abducting newly-wed woman after thrashing her husband||Three persons have been booked for abducting a newly-wed woman after thrashing her husband when the couple was waiting outside a hotel for a bus in Nayagaon, police said on Thursday. The accused, who came in a car, assaulted Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, and took his wife Pinky with them, the police said. Gurpreet told the police said that he had married Pinki of Amritsar on November 13 at a Chandigarh court. He said they were now residing in a rented accommodation in Nayagaon. He said on Wednesday at 10pm, they were waiting for a bus when three persons came there and started beating them up. He said his wife tried to save him, but they also thrashed her before forcibly taking her with them. Gurpreet said passersby took him to a hospital and after regaining consciousness, he approached the police. Nayagaon police, on the basis of Gurpreet’s statement, have registered a case under sections 323, 341, 365 and 34 of the IPC. Investigating officer Iqbal Singh said a manhunt has been launched to trace the accused. He said they were also trying to secure the footage of CCTV cameras in the surrounding areas to find the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-three-booked-for-abducting-newly-wed-woman-after-thrashing-her-husband-101637266623722.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal starts ‘Mission Punjab’ campaign from Moga tomorrow||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will start the ‘Mission Punjab’ campaign from Moga on Saturday, in view of the forthcoming assembly elections in the state. Announcing this, AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann said the party has started its preparations “vigorously” for the state polls and Kejriwal’s one-day tour to Moga will be a part of this. “The AAP has started a campaign from cities to villages ahead of the elections and is preparing a comprehensive roadmap for the state by holding various meetings. This will be later added to the party’s election manifesto,” he said in a statement. Mann said the AAP national convener will undertake an extension tour of Punjab in the next one month, visiting several villages to lend an ear to the problems of the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-starts-mission-punjab-campaign-from-moga-tomorrow-101637266443664.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Always looking for best ways to enhance services: DGP at Chandigarh Police Raising Day parade||Chandigarh Police on Thursday organised the 55th Raising Day parade in Sector 26 here. Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit was the chief guest on the occasion. The parade contingent of the Chandigarh Police was headed by assistant superintendent of police Mridul. While delivering the welcome address, UT director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan said that Chandigarh Police were always looking for the best ways to enhance services for citizens and provide crime-free environment to them. He discussed various innovations coming up in the city under the Smart City project, E-beat book system, E-saathi app and Urja project. He also spoke on how all police stations of Chandigarh have been declared paperless and highlighted the formation of an anti-eve teasing squad and Swayam, a self-defence training programme. UT administrator Purohit talked about the police force, while UT adviser Dharam Pal decorated the newly promoted DSPs of Chandigarh Police with badges and congratulated them. In the evening, an ‘At Home’ function was also organised at the residence of the UT DGP in Sector 5 where various police officers and other officials of the administration were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/always-looking-for-best-ways-to-enhance-services-dgp-at-chandigarh-police-raising-day-parade-101637266323749.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Channi govt in Punjab betrayed farmers by not fulfilling loan waiver promise: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday hit out at the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab for “betraying the farmers” by not fulfilling the party’s pre-poll promise of complete loan waiver. Cheema said the Congress had promised in writing on January 19, 2017, to waive the entire loan of about ₹90,000 crore of farmers and farm labourers, but their debt has now increased to ₹1.5 lakh crore. “This includes loans raised from the government, cooperative and private banks as well as from the unorganised sector,” he said at a press conference, recalling how forms were got filled from farmers and labourers. The AAP leader asked CM Channi whether he would waive the entire loan or not. “If you do, then declare its time limit and the entire loan of the farmers and laborers should be waived before the code of conduct is implemented in the state. If the government cannot keep this promise, then all other things are just a hoax,” he said. On ₹17,000 per acre compensation announced by the state government to farmers for crop affected by the pink bollworm pest, he asked the chief minister whether this amount was sufficient to compensate the farmers for the crop damage. “The farmers spent ₹60,000 to 70,000 per acre, but the compensation amount is a mockery,” he added. Cheema cautioned the people, particularly farmers, of Punjab to be wary of the hollow announcements of the Channi government, calling them “election stunts”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-govt-in-punjab-betrayed-farmers-by-not-fulfilling-loan-waiver-promise-aap-101637266264153.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drug cases: Punjab govt opposes Akali MLA Majithia’s plea to be impleaded as party in high court||The Punjab government on Thursday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia had no right to be heard at this stage in the drug cases.Supreme Court lawyer Dushyant Dave, who appeared for the state government for the first time in the case, told the high court bench of Justices AG Masih and Sandeep Moudgil that Majithia had been “sitting on the fence” for 5-7 years and thus had no right to be heard at this stage. Dave also brought to notice of the court some SC orders, in which timeframe was given to dispose of these matters. The bench did not issue notice on the application moved by Majithia even as senior advocate RS Cheema, who appeared for him, mentioned that he be heard by the court.During the brief hearing on Thursday, Justice Masih, senior judge on the bench, told the lawyers that composition of bench has got changed and both the judges are yet to peruse the sealed cover reports and Justice Moudgil is yet to acquaint himself with the case. Now the matter stands deferred for December 6. On the last date of hearing on October 26, the court had told lawyers it would peruse the reports and decide by November 18 whether the sealed cover reports are to be opened. But in the interim, the composition of bench got changed due to new appointments. The reports lying in a sealed cover since 2018 are on the role of high-profile politicians and police officials in drug cases. These reports have been filed in a 2013 suo motu petition in which the court is monitoring the probe in drug cases of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Majithia in his plea has argued that he be made a party as his image was being tarnished by his political opponents by linking him to drug cases only for reaping political benefits. He has said that his political adversaries were targeting him without there being any substantial material on record when the Vidhan Sabha elections are round the corner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-cases-punjab-govt-opposes-akali-mla-majithia-s-plea-to-be-impleaded-as-party-in-high-court-101637266023702.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Owners of 13 hotels booked for flouting Covid norms in Ambala Cantt||A day after several teams of Ambala police checked at least 20 hotels operating in the Lal Kurti area opposite the cantonment railway station, 13 property owners have been booked for allegedly flouting Covid norms, besides other violations, under relevant sections of the law, police said on Thursday. Those booked are identified as Karanbeer, Sanjeev Gupta, Idra Singh, Amit, Sunny Gupta, Sunil Jain, Rajesh Garg, Vinay Kumar, Vijay Kumar Sondia, Kuldeep, Kunal, Vijay Kumar and Rajiv Sharma.Superintendent of police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the checking was carried out by various teams of CIA-1 staff, CIA-2, CIA Naraingarh and anti-vehicles theft cell after inputs about some prostitution rackets being operated in these hotels and complaints of Covid norms violation.“During the checking, it was found that there were no documents like Change of Land Use (CLU) certificate, building certificate, fire NOC, and registrations under the Sarai Act. The hotels were also not uploading mandated data on the Haryana Police website. Single rooms in several hotels were being rented out multiple times in a single day,” the SP added. The FIR was registered under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and provisions of the Disaster Management Act on the complaint of constable Rajiv of Parao police station.Lal Kurti area is a hub of hotels and dhabas, formed out of residential buildings in packed alleys. On a walking distance from cantonment bus stand and railway station, a major junction in north India, hotels and guest houses in the area remain a preferred choice for tourists. Randhawa’s deputy, ASP Pooja Dabla said departments concerned will be asked to take action against such hotels, including demolition. On Thursday too, several hotels under the jurisdiction of Ambala Cantt police were checked in a similar manner, but no FIR was registered till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/owners-of-13-hotels-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-in-ambala-cantt-101637265904016.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||42 Patiala councillors ask Capt loyalist mayor Bittu to prove majority in House||As many as 42 councillors of Patiala municipal corporation formally submitted a requisition with ‘beleaguered’ Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu on Thursday, asking him to call a general house meeting in order to prove majority in the House. The requisition has been sent under Section 39 of the Patiala Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, which defines process of removal of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. A protégé of Captain Amarinder Singh, Bittu has been facing stiff rebellion from fellow councillors over his proximity with the former CM. On Thursday, led by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, as many as 39 councillors met Harish Chaudhary, the Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs, and demanded immediate removal of Bittu. On the other hand, nearly 18 councillors who support Bittu met member of Parliament Preneet Kaur. Of the 60 seats in the House, 32 are in Captain’s constituency, 26 in local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra’s Patiala (rural) constituency and two in Sanaur. The requisition letter stated: “We have elected you (Bittu) as mayor as per the Act but now almost all the House members have lost confidence in you. Therefore, it would be appropriate for you to either resign from your post on moral ground or call a House meeting and prove the confidence as per law.” The letter further stated that more than two thirds of members will support the no confidence motion. “If the meeting is not called immediately as per the Act, the undersigned will reserve the right to knock door of the Punjab government and of competent court of law,” the letter said. “The councillors narrated their grievances to Chaudhary, who gave a patient hearing and assured them to resolve the matter,” Mohindra said. Meanwhile, Bittu said as per the Act, he is to call meeting within 14 days. “I will consult it with my leaders in order to decide the next course of action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/42-patiala-councillors-ask-capt-loyalist-mayor-bittu-to-prove-majority-in-house-101637265783768.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CISF man, his wife found dead: Police suspect poisoning||Bodies of a 52-year-old CISF man and his wife were found in Khuda Ali Sher on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday, adding that though details of postmortem examination were awaited, poisoning was suspected to be the reason behind the deaths. The man was a head constable with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who was found dead along with his 50-year-old wife at their residence. Their relatives raised alarm after the couple failed to answer their repeated calls. Initial investigation suggested that they died of poisoning, the police said while not ruling out the possibility of a suicide pact. The report of man’s viscera is also awaited to confirm the cause of death. The woman’s autopsy got delayed as it was discovered that she was suffering from Covid. Her postmortem examination is likely to be conducted on Friday. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedures (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cisf-man-his-wife-found-dead-police-suspect-poisoning-101637265663788.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Ticket allocation, change in ward dynamics major challenges before Congress||Hoping to return to winning ways to Chandigarh’s electoral politics, the Congress is in a major fix over the allocation of tickets. Internal pressure from some quarters is mounting on the party for allotting two tickets within a family. The party is also facing a challenge of adjusting many of its leaders who lost their traditional seats either to reconfiguration of wards or fresh reservation. Four-time Congress MP from the city and national treasure of the party, Pawan Kumar Bansal admits that the change in ward dynamics has put a major challenge before them. “For some seats, women leaders were working very hard, but now those have been declared as general wards. In other wards, male Congress workers had put in a lot of efforts but those were earmarked for women. Similarly, the areas of many wards have been changed. It is a major difficulty for the Congress. We will have to discuss it within the party,” he said. Not outrightly ruling out the possibility of allocation of two tickets within a family, Bansal said, “It is too early to speak on this issue. When the committee with the party in-charge at the helm will discuss each ward, all these points will be taken up.” The issue of two tickets in a family gained currency after a sitting councillor made public statements seeking two tickets after his ward area was reserved for women. Subsequently, some other party leaders also claimed two tickets. Notably, the Congress had invited applications for tickets. Congress state president Subhash Chawla said that the party has received 190 applications for 35 wards. “After the code of conduct is announced, we will first shortlist three candidates per ward and thereafter decide the final one.”On the criterion for ticket allocation, Bansal said, “Winnability is the main factor but also the fact how much the candidate has worked for making city residents’ lives better. How much he has contributed to make the party stronger. A candidate’s honest character also determines his winnability.”Nearly half of the tickets will go to new faces, said Chawla.Aiming to end losing streakChandigarh, which has been traditionally a strong bastion for the party, saw major change after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as it lost three successive polls in the city. The Congress has lost two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019. The party’s loss in 2016 MC elections came at a time when the Modi government had announced the demonetisation. The party could only win four out of total 26 wards. Later, a BJP councillor crossed over to it taking its tally to five councillors in the House.“The wins and losses are party to the democratic process. We have a strong winning record in the city. We are confident that we will win big this time around,” said Bansal.The party is banking heavily on the ‘anti-incumbency’ against the ruling BJP, ‘high’ inflation and is also looking to gain from the anti-farm laws protests. “The BJP has failed miserably to deliver on any of its promises. Its policy, both at the central and municipal levels, has been anti-people. High inflation and unprecedented imposition of huge taxes and new charges in the BJP-ruled MC have made residents’ life very tough,” said Bansal.Meanwhile, Chawla said, “The water charges were increased many folds, putting heavy financial burden on residents. The partial rollback announced was a gimmick and is only till March 2022. After elections, the charges will be automatically increased.”Instead of claiming its financial rights from the Centre and bringing the required funds, the BJP has put all revenue generation burden on city residents, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-ticket-allocation-change-in-ward-dynamics-major-challenges-before-congress-101637265185030.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court issues arrest warrant against MLA Bains in rape case||Non-bailable warrant (NBW) with direction for arrest by December 1 has been issued against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and Atam Nagar (Ludhiana) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and other accused in the alleged rape case of 44-year-old woman. The next date of hearing is on December 1. Police have already submitted a charge sheet in the said case in the court. The court of judicial magistrate had earlier issued bailable warrants against the MLA, but the police in their reply stated that they went to serve the notice to the accused, but he was not present at home. Former MLA and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader advocate Harish Rai Dhanda, the victim’s counsel, said they submitted an application in the court on Thursday and requested the court to time-bound directions to a particular police officer to arrest the accused. Dhanda said the police are hand-in-glove with the accused and they made an excuse in the charge sheet that arresting Bains could cause a law-and-order situation in the city. The victim, a widow, had alleged that she was ‘raped’ by MLA Bains multiple times, and had been protesting for eight months prior to the registration of the FIR. The victim has also alleged that the MLA and his men had promised to help her in a property dispute, but started exploiting her sexually instead. After the police failed to register a case initially, the woman approached the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-mla-bains-in-rape-case-101637265183554.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER to soon take a call on ending tele-consultation||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) may soon take a call on discontinuing the tele-consultation facility in order to scale up physical consultations at its out-patient department (OPD). The daily tele-consultations have already dipped by around 80% in the past two months after the institute reopened the physical OPDs with prior appointments and walk-in registrations. At present, only 500 to 600 patients are getting OPD consultations through phone calls per day while the count was over 3,000 in September. Meanwhile, the number of people attending physical OPDs in PGIMER is increasing every day. But the daily footfall of patients is yet to match the pre-Covid times. On an average, more than 6,500 people are availing physical consultations in the OPD daily. Before the Covid started spreading, over 10,000 patients visited PGIMER’s OPDs daily. In the last 10, days (from November 8 to November 17) as many as 59,042 patients have attended the physical OPDs in PGIMER, while consultation on phone was given to only 5,304 patients. Since the suspension of walk-in consultation and online appointments in March last year, the institute had been providing OPD services only through tele-consultation. The physical consultations had resumed on June 21 this year, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation, until walk-in OPDs started on September 27.“The institute had revised its tele-consultation registration timings to 10.30am to 11.15am from 8am to 9am. Since patients do not get satisfied with the consultations through phone, they prefer to visit the hospital to meet doctors. Since the starting of the walk-in OPD facility, the tele-consultation registrations are dropping. From over 3,000 per day, the count had come down to 1,500 in October and then further dropped to 600 in November,” said Dr Surjit Singh, director, PGIMER. He added, “In the next few days, we are expecting tele-consultation numbers to drop further. Soon, we will take a call on discontinuing this facility so as to bring back the patient facilities like pre-Covid times. Besides OPDs, we are also focusing on doing maximum elective surgeries to provide best treatment and care to the patients.”‘Online registrations will also be scaled up’The PGIMER director also said that the facility of online registrations for the institute’s OPDs will be scaled up and cap on the daily numbers will be relaxed to streamline the flow of patients. “We will also look for increasing the online registrations so that people can make advance booking to consult the doctors at PGIMER, that too with their own convenient time,” he added. For physical consultation through the institute’s official website, PGIMER is at present allowing 50 patients per department and 100 for three major departments — ophthalmology (eye), hepatology (liver) and internal medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-to-soon-take-a-call-on-ending-teleconsultation-101637264763820.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Take action if evidence links us to drugs, sacrilege cases: Sukhbir dares Channi govt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday dared the Congress government in Punjab to act against him or any other Akali leader if it has evidence to link them to drugs and sacrilege cases. Sukhbir was talking to the mediapersons after inducting Congress party’s intellectual cell’s former chairman Anish Sidana and his supporters into the party at SAD headquarters in Chandigarh. Sukhbir announced Sidana’s appointment as his political adviser for urban areas. Sidana’s exit comes after another senior Hindu leader Raman Behl left the Congress and joined the Aam Aadmi Party on November 9. The Congress is facing the challenge of retaining its Hindu leaders. Sidana, a member of the Kandi Area Development Board (KADB) till a few months ago, belongs to Jalalabad and had been voicing his concerns regarding the lack of adequate representation in the state Congress. On October 31, he even wrote an open letter to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, citing indiscipline in the party. Reacting to demands by the Congress party for making public a report by the state government’s special task force (STF) on drugs, which is lying in sealed cover at the Punjab and Haryana high court, Sukhbir said, “What stopped the Congress government from acting against the drug traffickers during their four-and half-year term. None was arrested, and now the government is politicising the issue by targeting us. They could have released the report and I throw a challenge on them to come out with the slightest of evidence against us,” added Sukhbir. The drugs case came up for hearing in the high court on Thursday and was adjourned for December 6. “The chief minister, home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and DGP IPS Sahota are liable to be charged under Section 120(b) of IPC for a criminal conspiracy to frame me in sacrilege cases,” he told the mediapersons. Speaking on the Congress’s promise of debt waiver to the state farmers, the former deputy chief minister said the farmers, as well as farm unions, could never be satisfied until the government implemented the complete waiver as promised ahead of the 2017 polls. “The Congress party even took an oath on the Gutka Sahib on this issue and Channi was a party to this commitment. Now, he should not try to run away from it,” he added. On Wednesday’s meeting of farmer union leaders with the chief minister, Sukhbir said the representatives were expected to take up the shortage and black-marketeering of DAP fertiliser. On the cancellation of permits of buses owned by the Badals, Sukhbir named transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring behind the unjust move as it was done without issuing a notice. “We do not owe even a single rupee in taxes to the Punjab government. In contrast, companies of Congress leaders are defaulters but are not being proceeded against,” he said. SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Daljit Singh Cheema, Raj Kumar Gupta, and Hansraj Josan were also present. ‘Harsimrat not to contest state polls’ Sukhbir said that party’s Lok Sabha MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal will not contest the upcoming state polls. However, he said, no decision has been taken on five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal’s contesting the state polls. “The decision will be discussed at the party level,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/take-action-if-evidence-links-us-to-drugs-sacrilege-cases-sukhbir-dares-channi-govt-101637264583686.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: One arrested with 4 gram heroin||The Panchkula crime branch has arrested a man in his 50s with over 4-gram heroin, officials said on Thursday. A case has been registered and he has been sent to judicial custody, they added. A police team from Sector 19 station arrested Rikhi Ram, a 53-year-old man, from Kharak Mangoli in Panchkula. It was stated in the FIR that the cops were on patrolling duty in sectors 14, 12, 11, and 4 of Panchkula when they spotted a man coming towards them, but ran away on seeing the police. The cops stopped him on the basis of suspicion and on inspection found 4.13 gram heroin from his possession. The FIR has been registered under the NDPS Act.Juvenile caught for stealing bikeA 16-year-old boy has been caught for stealing a bike, police said on Thursday. One Ashwani, who stays in Block A on Panjab University campus, had parked his bike near the community centre in Sarangpur on Monday. The accused boy was later traced by the police and sent to the juvenile home in Sector 25 while the bike has been recovered. Mobile phone snatched in ManimajraA Manimajra man lost his mobile phone to two snatchers, police said on Thursday. Saddam Husen of Govindpura said two persons took away his mobile phone near RIMT School when he was walking. A case under sections 379A (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Manimajra police station. No arrests have been made yet.PU departmental canteens to open with new guidelinesA committee constituted by PU V-C Raj Kumar with regard to running of canteens of physics, chemistry and geology departments has agreed to open canteens on the pattern of tuck shops. Packed food will be served and no cooking will be allowed, it was decided. Timing of the canteens will be restricted from 9am to 6pm and provision of chairs and tables will be allowed within the built-up area of the canteen. Any violation of these rules will result in a fine of ₹5,000 after it is reported by the chairperson of the department concerned.CCPCR celebrates children’s weekTo celebrate children’s week, Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) organised a declamation contest and creative art competition on Thursday at Guru Nanak Public School, Sector 36. GNPS principal Gurnam Kaur Grewal welcomed chief guest CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur. CCPCR distributed T-shirts and books to all participants. SGGS World University celebrates GurpurabSri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, is celebrating Parkash Purb of Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev. The university has set up an exhibition in which books ranging from rare religious texts to motivational works and critical Sikh writings are on display. Pro-Chancellor of the university, Ajaib Singh Brar, said that through these book stalls, the university wishes to inculcate a habit of reading among the students and show them how rich their culture and religion is. 17th Khalsai Khed Utsav heldBaba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College organised 17th Khalsai Khed Utsav of higher educational institutes running under the aegis of SGPC on Wednesday and Thursday. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur was the chief guest at the inaugural function. Around 5,000 students from 36 institutions of SGPC participated in sports events. Football, badminton, tug of war, and basketball competitions were organised. On the concluding day, the winners were honoured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-one-arrested-with-4-gram-heroin-101637264283719.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar: Accusing farmers for air pollution not justified||KARNAL: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Thursday that besides stubble burning, several other factors are also responsible for air pollution in the Delhi and NCR.“Accusing farmers of others for the air pollution is not justified. Even the supreme court has also observed that several other activities, including emission from vehicles and industry and construction activities were also responsible for the air pollution,” Khattar said when asked to respond Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s allegations that stubble burning in neighbouring states was also causing air pollution in Delhi.The allegations that farmers were behind the air pollution in Delhi are baseless as now the Delhi government has also announced several measures to deal with air pollution, Khattar said during his visit to Karnal late evening. “I don’t deny that the stubble burning was adding to the air pollution, besides several other factors, but Haryana government has succeeded to cut incidents of farm fires as several schemes were introduced to encourage farmers for the management of the crop waste,” he added. On whether Haryana government was considering to follow Delhi’s odd-even formula for vehicles , the CM said the decision will be taken on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-accusing-farmers-for-air-pollution-not-justified-101637263992861.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: National child protection panel inspects juvenile home||Five days after 10 residents of a juvenile observation home in Gill Canal, Shimlapuri, were booked for sodomising and thrashing a fellow 17-year-old inmate, a team of National Child Protection Commission (NCPCR), New Delhi, inspected the observation home in Ludhiana on Thursday.NCPCR registrar Anu Chaudhary and consultants Anshu Sharma and Karishma Buragohin were part of the team.The team carried out a thorough inspection of the observation home and met the entire staff. They also interacted with the inmates and heard out the problems being faced by them.During the investigation, the team found some of the deficiencies in the observation home, which were not as per the provisions of the JJ Act 2016.Following this, they conducted a meeting with officials of the district administration and police commissionerate at circuit house and directed them to take measures to rectify the discrepancies. Sources said that besides raising hygiene issues and the problem of dangling power cables, the inmates, especially the younger lot, complained that the elder inmates who are undergoing corrective detention have formed gangs and physically exploited younger inmates. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar were also present at the meeting.The team also directed the administration and the police that the case of violence within the observation home should be investigated on priority and in a timely manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-national-child-protection-panel-inspects-juvenile-home-101637263991704.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Court seeks status report from police on plea seeking FIR against Khattar||A court in Delhi on Thursday directed Delhi Police to file a status report on a plea seeking an FIR against Haryana chief minister ML Khattar for allegedly inciting BJP members to use criminal force against the protesting farmers last month.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sachin Gupta passed the order on the plea made by the complainant, who claimed that despite his complaint on October 22 to the senior officers of Delhi police, no action has been taken so far.“Submissions heard. Let the status report be called from the concerned in-charge, crime branch (of Delhi police) for December 6,” the judge said.The petition, filed by advocate Amit Sahni, alleged that a controversial video of the chief minister and BJP member was recorded during a meeting with the workers belonging to the party’s ‘Kisan morcha’ at his residence at Chandigarh on October 3.The petition accused that Khattar has committed offences under various sections, including 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence), and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief).It claimed that in the video, the CM was seen instigating party workers to use criminal force against the protesting farmers and “to create 500-600-1,000 volunteers in every district of north and west Haryana, and be ready to face sticks, imprisonment, which will make them big leaders.” The petition urged the court to summon the Khattar and punish him in accordance with the law, and also direct the police officials concerned to conduct an investigation against him by lodging an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-court-seeks-status-report-from-police-on-plea-seeking-fir-against-khattar-101637263863536.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Vipaksh aapke samaksh rally: BJP-JJP govt has corrupted state’s atmosphere, says Hooda||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday lambasted the BJP-JJP government during a “Vipaksh aapke samaksh” rally in Jind.Addressing the gathering, Hooda alleged that the BJP-JJP coalition has corrupted the atmosphere of the state and things will improve after Congress returns to power.“I have never seen or dreamed of such a corrupt government, which is currently running the state. The government has destroyed the governance system in the state as there are no teachers in schools, no doctors in hospitals, no patwari in revenue office, no MSP and fertilisers for farmers and no one standing for the rights of the poor and common man. We are not fighting only to change the government, but to change the atmosphere of the state. How will people live when farming and fertilisers are expensive and the prices of diesel, petrol, LPG, steel bars, cement, medicines and ambulances are skyrocketing,” the leader of opposition added.The leader of opposition also announced to hold the biggest rally of the country in Jind after Covid situation improves.“Jind has always changed the dynamics of state politics and we will sound a bugle against this corrupt government from this farmers’ land. I will organise the biggest rally of the country in Jind once we defeat Covid,” Hooda added.Ex-CM’s show of strengthThe former CM again showed his political strength in the Congress as a 23 MLAs out of 31, more than 100 former MLAs, ministers and MPs attended his rally. Eight MLAs and other leaders, who are loyal to other leaders gave the event a miss.Hooda attacked JJP leader and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala while accusing him of ‘betraying the voters’ by supporting the BJP to form the government in 2019.“The voters had given a clear mandate against the BJP by defeating most of its cabinet ministers. The JJP leaders had claimed of throwing the BJP out of Yamuna in the 2019 assembly polls but they sat in their lap when it fell short of a clear majority. Haryana was known for the highest per capita income, per capita investment, happiness of farmers, respect of our sportsperson, speed of development during our rule. Now, our state has bagged first rank in unemployment, crime, drug addiction, corruption and misery. Our sisters and daughters are forced to stand in queues for hours to get fertiliser and the DAP is being sold amid police security,” Hooda added.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said due to lackadaisical approach and anti-people mindset, the CM and his deputy had to resort to lathicharge to enter their constituencies Karnal and Uchana Kalan, respectively.“Despite this, the BJP government is ignoring the pain of farmers agitating for their demands for the last one year. I may be the only opposition MP from the state, but I will not allow the voice of the farmers to be weakened and will work vigorously to raise it in Parliament,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vipaksh-aapke-samaksh-rally-bjp-jjp-govt-has-corrupted-state-s-atmosphere-says-hooda-101637263683494.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab elections: 26 lakh voters to decide the fate of 14 constituencies in Ludhiana||Fourteen lakh male and 12 lakh females voters will decide the fate of the contestants in 14 constituencies of Ludhiana in the 2022 assembly polls.In view of the ongoing preparations for the elections, Chander Gaind, division commissioner, Patiala, conducted a meeting with Ludhiana district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday.Additional deputy commissioner (urban development) Sandeep Kumar, joint municipal commissioner Poonampreet Kaur and electoral registration officers (EROs) were also present on the occasion. During the meeting, Gaind directed that the district election management plan be prepared immediately.Sharma informed the divisional commissioner that the total electorate in Ludhiana district is around 26.10 lakh currently, out of which 12,14,751 are female, 13,95,249 are male and 121 are third-gender voters. New votes are being made for the remaining citizens or adults between the ages of 18 to 19, Divyangajans and third gender citizens.Chandra Gaind said that as per the guidelines of Election Commission of India and instructions of the chief electoral officer of Punjab, everyone who has attained the age of 18 should be registered as a voter, for which special campaign will be organised soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2022-punjab-elections-26-lakh-voters-to-decide-the-fate-of-14-constituencies-in-ludhiana-101637263624830.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal violence: Commission of inquiry gets extension till Dec 24||The Haryana government on Thursday extended the term of one-man commission of inquiry (CoI) headed by former Punjab and Haryana high court judge Justice SN Aggarwal to inquire into the sequence of events leading to violence, including police lathicharge on protesting farmers, at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28. According to the home department orders issued Thursday, the CoI’s term has been extended till December 24. It was constituted on September 25 and was expected to complete the probe in a month. The commission of inquiry is probing into the circumstances leading up to the violence and the action by the police at Karnal on August 28 and the use of force against the demonstrators. It will also find out the persons responsible for the violent situation and will inquire into role of then Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Ayush Sinha, a 2018 batch IAS officer, in the action by the cops. The police said that four farmers and 24 cops were injured in the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-violence-commission-of-inquiry-gets-extension-till-dec-24-101637263505284.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU PhD scholar wins PM’s Fellowship||Ramandeep Kaur, a PhD scholar from the School of Agricultural Biotechnology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has won the prestigious Prime Minister’s Fellowship for her Doctoral Research.Ramandeep will work on the identification and molecular mapping of stem bore resistance in maize -teosinte derived populations. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) of the department of science and technology, government of India, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and private partner Shakti Vardhak Hybrid Seeds awarded this fellowship to Ramandeep for four years (2021-2024).PAU vice-chancellor DK Tiwari congratulated Ramandeep and her guide Priti Sharma, assistant professor(biotechnology), for this achievement and wished them success in their future endeavors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-phd-scholar-wins-pm-s-fellowship-101637263503489.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Conduct semester exams online: PU student bodies||Panjab University (PU) student bodies have expressed opposition to the varsity authorities’ decision to hold the semester examinations in offline mode. They are demanding the exams to be conducted in online mode.The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad’s Panjab University unit on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the PU vice-chancellor for conducting the examination in said medium. The activists of the students’ organisation said there should have been offline classes for at least two months before the authorities could decide on conducting the exams physically. ABVP’s PU president Paras Ratan said, “We have been repeatedly contacting the authorities for the last few months regarding offline classes in all departments so that physical exams can be held efficiently. However, without sufficient number of offline classes, it would be against the interest of the students to declare the conduct of offline examination directly. Along with this, there is also the issue of accommodation for the students from outside the UT, hence online exams should be held.”Members of the Students for Society (SFS), in a letter to V-C, said, “Conducting offline exams appears to be irrational and unfair move as this entire semester has been taught in online mode and not a single practical class has been taken till now. The university can’t expect the students to perform the practicals physically in offline mode.” Meanwhile, Student Organisation of India (SOI) members gathered outside the V-C office on Thursday to protest against the decision. “Students’ demands are not being addressed properly by the university. If authorities will not conduct online exams, then we will again go for a protest with proper gathering as this issue is related to the future of thousands of students,” said SOI leader Manjodh Padda. He added that they were addressed by the controller, who had assured them that the issue will be resolved within 10 days. Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) also staged a protest against the university’s decision to conduct offline exams. “COE has said that the university has started planning to conduct offline exams, but it has not been confirmed yet. We have given our representation to conduct online exams,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conduct-semester-exams-online-pu-student-bodies-101637263384872.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar asks industry to start skill-related courses||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said industry should start skill-related courses and affiliate with Vishwakarma Skill University so that maximum students are employed. Speaking on the third foundation day of the Skill University at Palwal, Khattar said the state government established the country’s first skill university to make the youth employable. The CM reviewed the progress of the ongoing works in the university and recalled the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of this university with the goal of providing skill-related education to the youth as per the need of the times. The university will prove to be a milestone in taking forward the Prime Minister’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign, he said, adding there is a need to understand the difference between studies and skills and that “only skill can take the nation forward.” The CM said 12,000 skilled youth will graduate every year from this university by 2030. At present, 4,000 youths are being trained every year in the university. He said that the university is working with an industry integrated “earn-while learn” model, which provides opportunities to the students to study as well as earn. Vice-chancellor Raj Nehru said that the university has made huge progress in various fields in a short span.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-asks-industry-to-start-skill-related-courses-101637263383528.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PU Youth Festival enters Day 2||Indian orchestra, debate and elocution competitions marked the second day of the Panjab University Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival organised at Khalsa College for Women on Thursday. The topics for the debate and elocution were “Is online teaching is better than offline teaching” and colours of nature, respectively. Various music, art and culture events were also organised. Karnail Singh, poet and writer, along with Jagwinder Jodha, associate professor-cum-editor at the department of Punjabi, Punjab Agricultural University; Sardar Surinder Kailey, senior vice-president of Punjab Sahit Academy and Dalbir Singh, retired principal of Government College, were the judges for literary competitions.Jaswinder Brar, Ritu Mittal and Sharanbir Kaur Bal from College of Community Services, PAU, judged various cultural competitions while Geeta Bhargava, retired professor from the department of instrumental music, DAV Nakodar, along with Adarsh Parti and Subhash Ghosh judged the music instrumental and Indian orchestra.The judges for folk instrumental and folk orchestra were Major Singh, folk artist and expert in dance and music along with Kulwant Khatra, folk artist and Ravinder Ranguwal, film director, folk singer and choreographer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pu-youth-festival-enters-day-2-101637263325315.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||SKM feud out in the open: Now, Rajewal slams Charuni for his ‘political ambitions’||KARNALAlmost a year after they jointly led a convoy of farmers from Punjab and Haryana from the Panipat toll plaza and laid the foundation of the farmers agitation in November last year, the two big faces of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, Gurnam Singh Charuni of Haryana and Balbir Singh Rajewal of Punjab have openly come out against each other.A day after Charuni alleged that farmer leaders from Punjab were worried about his increasing popularity in their state, Rajewal said that they would oppose Charuni’s visit to Punjab.“Like other politicians, we will also oppose Charuni if he holds any programme in Punjab as there is no difference between Charuni and other politicians,” Rajewal said during his visit to Karnal on Thursday.Rajewal said that the SKM was not formed for the political agendas and the morcha leaders were against Charuni’s political statements. “But he (Charuni) himself was not concerned about the success of the agitation,” Rajewal said, reacting to Charuni’s statement that Punjab farmer leaders were worried about his popularity.He said that the SKM leaders had requested him that he should not hold meetings in poll-bound Punjab as this is against the morcha’s agenda, but to no avail. “Now, we have decided to show him black flags if he holds such meetings in Punjab,” Rajewal said.On being questioned if bickering will have any impact on the agitation, Rajewal said that he was confident that the protest will be successful and the farmers will force the government to withdraw the farm laws.He said the final decision about the SKM’s protest march from Ambala to Delhi on November 24 has not been taken yet and there are no plans to reach the India Gate.Rajewal had come to Karnal to record his statement before the one-member commission investigating the sequence of events that led to the police lathicharge at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28. The farmer leader said he has recorded his statement and told the commission that he was not present in Karnal when the lathicharge took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-feud-out-in-the-open-now-rajewal-slams-charuni-for-his-political-ambitions-101637263203644.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-microbial Awareness Week starts at GADVASU||World Antimicrobial Awareness Week, being organised by the Centre for One Health (COH), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, commenced on Thursday.The main aim is to increase global awareness on antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and encourage best practices to prevent the emergence and spread of drug-resistant infections.In the coming week, a series of lectures will be delivered by guest speakers and faculty from the Centre for One Health on antimicrobial usage and resistance in humans and animals.The event was inaugurated by Dr JPS Gill, director research, GADVASU, who highlighted the importance of antimicrobial resistance, role of the animal husbandry sector and the challenges ahead.On Day 1, PGIMER professors Dr Pallab Ray and Dr Manisha Biswal spoke on the topics “microbe, man and AMR” and “basics on infection control and prevention”, respectively.Lectures and workshops will also be organised for school students by Centre for One Health to raise awareness on antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antimicrobial-awareness-week-starts-at-gadvasu-101637263146507.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||5,000 MW of surplus power available in Haryana: Minister||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh said on Thursday that there will not be a power crisis even if the state has to halt thermal power plant production due to air pollution.Stating that there is no shortage of power in the state, the minister said adequate electricity is being provided to all small and large-scale industries. He said that there is 5,000 MW surplus power available in the state. The thermal power plant of Haryana is producing about 2,510 MW of power out of which about 1,700 MW is being used, he said. The power minister said at present, the state government has 12,000 MW of power available, while up to 7,000 MW of power is being used per day at most in the state. “There is sufficient power availability in the state,” he said in a statement.He reiterated that industrial sector in Haryana will continue to avail power supply without any interruption. Expressing concern over air pollution, Singh said that the state government is making consistent efforts in this regard and that steps are being taken as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5000-mw-of-surplus-power-available-in-haryana-minister-101637263084910.html
19-11-2021||Bhopal||MP high court stays selection of school teachers over 27% OBC quota provision||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh high court on Thursday stayed the state government order on 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBC) and 10% for the economically weaker sections in recruitment for higher secondary school teachers.A division bench of chief justice Ravi Vijay Kumar Malimath and justice Vijay Kumar Shukla stayed the final list of selected teachers released by the commissioner of the Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI) by implementing 27% OBC reservation and 10% EWS quota last week. The court also sought a reply from the state government on crossing the 50% reservation limit imposed by the Supreme Court. As of now, the reservation in Madhya Pradesh is 73%.A contempt petition filed by Prabal Pratap Singh and 11 others said the high court earlier stayed implementation of 27% OBC reservation in the state.“Earlier, rejecting the application to revoke the stay on implementation of 27% OBC reservation, the high court fixed the final date of hearing on December 6. Despite this, the government implemented OBC and EWS reservation to fill posts of higher secondary teachers,” said lawyer Aditya Sanghi who appeared for one of the petitioners.“The General Administration Department issued a circular citing the opinion of the advocate general that 27% reservation can be implemented in other departments other than the cases in which the high court has stayed. On the basis of this circular, the Public Instruction Commissioner has issued the final list of selected teachers,” said Sanghi. The lawyer said there was a clear order of the Supreme Court that the reservation should not exceed 50%. Due to the implementation of OBC and EWS reservations, the total reservation exceeds 73%. Apart from this, there is no constitutional provision for caste-based reservation, Sanghi said.Additional advocate general RK Verma said, “After hearing the petition, the division bench issued notice to the state government and sought reply by December 6.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-high-court-stays-selection-of-school-teachers-over-27-obc-quota-provision-101637263083702.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC contract staffers carry out protest march over demand for regular jobs||Lambasting the state government over its failure to regularise contractual staff of the municipal corporation (MC) and lathi-charge by police on protesting sanitary workers in Moga, Ludhiana MC employees under the banner of Municipal Karamchari Dal burned the effigy of Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa at Jagraon Bridge on Thursday.A protest march was also organised from the MC Zone-A office till Jagraon bridge, as their protest entered its sixth day on Thursday. The protesters said that the Moga incident will be the last nail in the coffin of the Congress government in the state and alleged that Randhawa is responsible for it.Accusing the government of discriminating against MC contractual employees by not including them in the list of 36,000 employees to be regularised in the state ahead of the assembly polls, leaders of the union stated that the protest will continue till their demand is met.Chairman of the union, Vijay Danav, said that lathi-charge on protesting employees in Moga has brought forth the real face of the Congress government. “Chief minister Charanjit Channi is trying to woo the SC community, but on the other hand MC employees are being denied their rights,” he said.President Chaudhary Yashpal said that the sanitary staff are the real heroes who keep the city clean, but they are given meagre salaries. He added that their protest will continue till the government regularises them and the effigy of deputy CM OP Soni will be burned on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-contract-staffers-carry-out-protest-march-over-demand-for-regular-jobs-101637262966688.html
19-11-2021||Other||Denied permission to visit Kartarpur, say AAP MLAs||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said that a party delegation led by Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann and state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha has been denied permission to visit Kartarpur on November 19 (Friday) to pay obeisance at the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. Chadha, who is also the AAP’s national spokesperson, said the party delegation has been denied permission to visit Kartarpur Sahib by the Modi-Channi duo. “It is clear that as per a tactical understanding between PM Modi and CM Channi, only Channi and his men are permitted to visit. The match-fixing between Modi and Channi has surfaced yet again,” Chadha tweeted with a copy of the letter sent by a joint secretary of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) to the general administration department on Wednesday. NOT EVEN AN ENEMY SHOULD BE STOPPED, TWEETS KEJRIWALAAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted that it was wrong to prevent anyone from paying obeisance at a gurdwara on Gurpurb. “Such politics is not good for the country and society. Not even an enemy should be stopped,” he posted. The Punjab government had asked for political clearance for the visit of a delegation led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday. However, the Centre, while granting political clearance to 44 persons, divided the CM, ministers, Congress MLAs and officers into three separate groups for the visit to be undertaken from November 18-20. A senior officer said that political clearance was received for those who were to be part of the chief minister’s delegation. AAP MLA and leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema said party MLAs were planning to visit Kartarpur on Friday but were informed by the state government that it had not received clearance for their visit. “We have been asked to apply under regular system. We all (Mann and party MLAs) will go to Dera Baba Nanak on Friday and pay obeisance from there,” the LOP said, pointing out that they had sent their papers to the state government on Wednesday and Thursday morning. Mann had, on Wednesday, announced their plans to visit Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on the occasion of Guru Nanak Dev’s Parkash Utsav to offer prayers for the progress, prosperity and happiness of Punjab. Punjab cabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka accused the AAP of indulging in cheap talk and politics. “It is everyone’s right to travel to Kartarpur to offer prayers. If the Centre has denied them (AAP MLAs) permission, it is wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/denied-permission-to-visit-kartarpur-say-aap-mlas-101637262963433.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mother stuck in UK, HC gives minor boy’s custody to father||The Punjab and high court has given custody of a minor boy to his father as the mother is stuck in United Kingdom, due to litigation between the couple.The high court order came on the plea of a Jind man, who had sought the custody of his two-year-old son, living with the parents of his estranged wife. “The petitioner is the natural guardian of his minor child. But for some bald allegations made against him, there is no reason to believe that he would not conduct himself as a good and caring father,” the bench of justice HS Sidhu said, adding that the mother’s return is uncertain in view of her passport and travel documents having been seized because of the pending proceedings initiated by the her husband in the UK.The woman had told the court that she intended to return to India to take her son to the UK.However, the court said it would not be in the interest of the minor to be permitted to travel to UK pending a determination of various disputes between the parties in the courts. Also, the woman would have to single-handedly take care of the son and a daughter, which may be difficult in view of the demands of her career. In India, the minor boy can enjoy the care, love and affection of his grandparents and other members of the family both on the paternal and maternal side and his father.According to case, the couple married in November 2010 and are parents of two children --- a 10-year-old girl and the boy --- who was born in the UK in 2019. Soon after that, the couple came to India and a matrimonial discord started. They both started living separately --- the woman in Sonepat with her parents and the husband in Jind at his parents’ home. Both the children were in mother’s care. The husband had approached the high court for custody in September. Later, it came to light that the woman went back to the UK leaving the son in Sonepat with her parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mother-stuck-in-uk-hc-gives-minor-boy-s-custody-to-father-101637262903497.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: EDMC seizes 7 vehicles carrying construction material||NEW DELHI: Complying with the Delhi government’s order imposing a complete ban on construction activities in the city, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday seized seven vehicles found carrying construction and demolition (C&D) waste.Deputy commissioner (North Shahdara) Sanjeev Mishra said that a comprehensive action plan has been started to mitigate air pollution. “Several teams have been constituted to carry out field inspections to keep day and night vigil against garbage and biomass burning, illegal dumping of C&D waste and polluting industrial activities. Several water sprinklers have been deployed to control dust pollution by spraying dust suppressants,” he said.He further said that punitive action is being taken against entities, both institutional and individuals, indulging in activities generating air pollution under EDMC. Special drives are being launched to monitor and prevent activities adding to air pollution, in the areas of Sonia Vihar, Karawal Nagar and Wazirabad Road. Officials said monetary challans have been issued, under the provisions of the National Green Tribunal Act and Environment Protection Act, against individual owners and builders found violating the ban on construction activities and taking building materials or C&D waste. “Some of the agencies penalised under the NGT Act include the public works department (PWD), Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), BSES and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC),” he said. According to senior EDMC officials, a challan of ₹50,000 was issued against the MRTS in Sonia Vihar area and a challan of ₹50,000 was issued against DDA in Gautampuri area. “So far, seven challans, each of ₹50,000, have been issued against the PWD for violating the pollution norms. Altogether 140 challans have been issued, amounting to ₹18.95 lakh, against different defaulters in Shahdara north zone in the month of November so far,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-edmc-seizes-7-vehicles-carrying-construction-material-101637262243454.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Truck ban falls flat at several border points in Delhi||A day after the Delhi government issued an order banning the entry of all trucks, except those carrying essential goods, into the Capital till November 21 to control the rising pollution levels in the city, a spot check by HT on Thursday showed that its enforcement remained lax at several border points as trucks went past tolls without any checks.At the Badarpur border, the toll collectors said that they were not aware of any directions to stop the entry of trucks coming into the city from Haryana. A toll collector said that around 20-25 trucks bearing Haryana registration had crossed the borders by Thursday afternoon.“Since morning, trucks are moving freely here. We are not aware of any restrictions and we have not been directed to check the vehicles (if they are carrying essential goods or not) before letting them pass,” said Sanjeev Kumar, who was stationed at the Badarpur toll booth on Thursday afternoon.A few metres away from the toll, the driver of a medium-sized parked truck bearing a Haryana number plate, said, “I am on my way back. I am not aware of any restriction.”At the Pul Prahladpur border, a few kilometres away, police barricades were in place but it was unmanned. A row of small trucks were parked at the Pul Prahladpur village but HT couldn’t confirm if they were carrying essential goods.However, at the Apsara border near east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, strict checks were being conducted, with enforcement teams comprising Delhi Police officials, traffic personnel and paramilitary staff manning the area around the toll plaza.An official stationed at the border said that smaller trucks were turned back at the toll gate. For bigger trucks, which might cause traffic congestion while turning, the staff collect the vehicle’s documents at the toll and the drivers are asked to collect them after taking a U-turn at the nearest point.“There is a three-tier check here. We are collecting the vehicle documents so that the drivers do not drive past the borders,” said the official, who asked not be named.Meanwhile, the Gurugram police too set up barricades at 10 locations in the district and diverted trucks through the western peripheral expressway towards other states. Gurugram Police said that at least 200 trucks that were on their way to Delhi via Gurugram were diverted from Shankar Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Thursday, in compliance with the measures announced to prevent further deterioration of air quality in the National Capital Region.Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “We have set up checkpoints and deployed teams at all locations where heavy vehicles enter the expressway. At least 300 personnel are deployed at the borders and are checking all vehicles to ensure only vehicles carrying essential commodities enter the city,” he said.Gurugram police have also asked neighbouring districts – Nuh, Rewari and Jhajjar – to not allow heavy vehicles and re-route them via KMP Expressway.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) order on Wednesday assigned the task of banning trucks to the Delhi Police, Delhi’s transport department, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the three municipal corporations (North, South and East). The order followed similar directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas to control the rising pollution levels in the city.Officials had said that the order is unlikely to cause chaos as most of the non-destined commercial vehicles now bypass the city by taking the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around the Capital.“We have issued strict directions that no laxity will be tolerated. Trucks are being checked at the borders and if they are carrying non-essentials, they are being turned back,” said a senior DPCC official.The Delhi traffic police officials said that they have held talks with all the major truck associations, asking them to comply with the order.“All the associations/unions of truck operators/owners and drivers have been advised to make adequate arrangements at their own level for proper parking and halting of their trucks outside Delhi borders, at suitable places like warehouses, transport hubs etc till November 21,” said Manish Kumar Agarwal, special commissioner of police (traffic).He added, “Police authorities of neighbouring NCR towns have also been requested to make adequate arrangements for diversion of such trucks, which are not supposed to enter Delhi, in order to avoid congestion at border points.”Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the contribution from trucks in Delhi’s air has reduced over the last couple years due to the expressways, but they are still one of the biggest polluters in the vehicle segment.“These are heavy duty vehicles, and trucks enter Delhi in the night when temperatures are low and these emissions can stay trapped in the air till the next day. In our analysis in 2015, we found that trucks were contributing to around 30% of the total pollution due to vehicles,” she said.Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said while the ban on entry of trucks into Delhi was a good move, there also needs to be a restriction on the movement of private vehicles in order to complement the ban.“Cutting down intra-city vehicular traffic would not only reduce vehicular exhaust emissions but also contribute to reducing re-suspended dust and idling emissions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/truck-ban-falls-flat-at-several-border-points-in-delhi-101637262123437.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Air quality improves in index, stays very poor||New Delhi Delhi’s air quality improved on Thursday, dropping to the lower half of the “very poor” category with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 347 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB’s) daily bulletin, as a change in wind direction to south-easterly reduced the contribution of stubble burning to just 2%, weather officials said.In comparison, the AQI was 375 (also very poor) on Wednesday. While south-easterly winds will reduce the impact from stubble burning in the next 48 hours as well, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said this will also lead to a rise in mercury, with the minimum temperature increasing to around 12 degrees Celsius by Friday. North-westerly winds are meanwhile expected to return from November 21, with strong local winds expected to lead to dispersal of pollutants. Agencies said Delhi was currently witnessing calm wind conditions, offsetting the reduction in emissions from stubble burning. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a forecasting body under the central government, only 773 fires were recorded in the northern plains in the last 24 hours. SAFAR’s analysis shows the contribution of stubble burning has been reducing rapidly over the past week, dropping from 10% on November 15 to 8% the next day, 6% on November 17 and 2% on Thursday. “Delhi’s AQI will improve but it will remain in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days as transport-level winds are now coming from the eastern direction, preventing intrusion of any pollutants from the stubble burning region. However, local surface winds are low and mixing layer height is above 1km, resulting in moderate ventilation of near-surface pollutants. From November 21 onwards, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality,” said SAFAR, stating that with just 773 fires the impact from stubble burning on Thursday was negligible. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 26.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday, one degree below normal. The minimum was recorded at 10.5 degrees – two notches below normal. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature dropped to 9.6 degrees at Safdarjung – the lowest so far this season, with the Ayanagar station also recording isolated “cold wave” conditions.Mahesh Palawat, vice president at the private forecasting agency Skymet, said southeasterly winds will continue till November 20, with north-westerly winds to only return from November 21 onwards. “Temperatures will start rising now, with a drop only expected after November 22. The impact of stubble burning will reduce due to south-easterly winds, but at the same time, Delhi is seeing calm conditions,” he said. According to the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, another forecasting mechanism in place in the ministry of earth sciences, strong surface winds over Delhi from November 21 may even bring air quality to the “poor” category.An AQI between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 “very poor” and over 400 “severe” on the CPCB’s index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-air-quality-improves-in-index-stays-very-poor-101637261703686.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad High Court grants police protection to same-sex couple||The Allahabad High Court granted police protection to a same-sex couple after noting that the court is not against live-in relationships.The bench comprising Justice Dr KJ Thaker and Justice Ajai Tyagi granted the relief in a protection plea of one Anju Singh and her live-in partner, who filed the petition alleging that they would be harassed and would not be permitted to live in peace by their family if protection is not granted to them.They submitted before the Court that they are major girls who wanted live-in relation and are a same-sex couple.They also submitted that their parents threatened to kill the petitioners if they don’t end their relationship and they also threatened to falsely implicate the petitioners in a criminal case.Against this backdrop, stressing that the Court is not against live-in relation, the Court directed the police to grant them protection after verifying all the documents.The Court also referred to the Supreme Court’s rulings in the case of Gian Devi v The Superintendent, Nari Niketan, Delhi, and others, and Lata Singh v State of UP and another while allowing the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-grants-police-protection-to-same-sex-couple-101637261344926.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Sadar Bazar police station adjudged the best in the country||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday adjudged Sadar Bazar police station in the Capital as the best police station across the country this year, according to police officers aware of the development.Two other police stations -- Gangapur in Odisha and Bhattu Kalan in Haryana -- were ranked second and third on the list.The ranking of police stations across the country is an annual exercise by the MHA, with the stations judged on the basis of parameters like crime rate, investigation and disposal of cases, infrastructure, and delivery of public service, among other features. About 20% of the total points are also based on feedback about the police station from citizens, police officers aware of the marking system said.Built in 1861, the Sadar Bazar police station in north Delhi is one of the oldest police stations in Delhi. According to the police records, the first FIR at the station, for the theft of oil worth ₹7, was registered on December 31, 1861, when Delhi had only five stations – Sabzi Mandi, Mehrauli, Kotwali, Mundka and Sadar Bazar. There are around 200 police stations today.The station house officer of Sadar Bazar, Kirori Lal Yadav, said while policing is a stressful job, they have put in measures to ensure that is not the case for police personnel of this station.Apart from focusing on preventing crime, filing charge sheets before courts quickly, ensuring no pendency of cases and meeting each complainant who visits the station, the station also has an in-house badminton court and a games room for police personnel to relax after a tiring day at work. The crime data for the police station this year was not immediately available.“An inspection of the police station was conducted in October. We were told that the locals of the area were completely satisfied with the kind of policing we have been doing. Since our jobs are really stressful -- both physically and emotionally -- we ensure that the time we spend at the police station should not be something we don’t look forward to. We will work harder now to ensure we live up to the expectations this award brings,” said Yadav.On November 9, the MHA, in a letter to Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana, informed that Sadar Bazar has been chosen as one of the top three police stations across the country. In the letter, the MHA informed that the SHO of the three stations would have to be present at the Lucknow police headquarters on November 19 to receive the award from Home Minister Amit Shah.On Wednesday night, MHA told Delhi Police that Sadar Bazar had won the top place among all police stations.Meanwhile, residents and traders of Sadar Bazar said they were thrilled to hear about the news on social media. Sadar Bazar in north Delhi is one of the largest whole sale markets in north Delhi.Ajay Khanna, a trader in the market, said, “During Covid, when there were tens of thousands of people in the market, police were on the spot to ensure social distancing. The local police personnel made regular visits to our shops to ensure that everyone there was wearing a mask. What else can a trader like me expect? All we want to do is to be able to do our job without interference.”The north district’s deputy commissioner of police, Sagar Singh Kalsi credited the success to all police personnel, who have served in the district and the station.“They deserve the credit for making our police station worth even contesting in the competition, let alone winning it. It is an effort of the officers who held office before me. And not just the police personnel, the public here is very motivated and contributes a lot to policing in the area. Be it a fire situation or managing the traffic, it is the people of this area who take things in hand to help the police manage the situation better,” Kalsi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-sadar-bazar-police-station-adjudged-the-best-in-the-country-101637261343907.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||Symbolic namaz at one Gurugram gurdwara as Sikhs mark Gurupurab||The Muslims on Thursday said that they will offer “symbolic” namaz at one gurdwara in Gurugram in which only 10 people will participate, a day after the Sikh community offered gurdwaras to them for Friday prayers in view of repeated disruptions by Hindu right-wing groups.The Sikhs will celebrate Gurupurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak on Friday.“We have decided that only 10 people will pray at the Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha at Kamla Nehru Park in Sadar area, since it is an auspicious occasion for the Sikh community. We do not want them to face any kind of inconvenience,” said Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ platform, and spokesperson for Gurgaon Muslim Council.Ahmad said that they wanted to visit the gurdwaras only to offer their wishes on the auspicious occasion, but decided to offer a symbolic namaz after discussing the matter with the members of the gurdwara management.Also read | Sikhs in Gurugram offer Muslims space in gurdwaras for Friday prayersDaya Singh, president of All India Peace Mission and member of the Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, said, “There is a Khalsa school adjacent to the gurdwara, we might offer that space too but the committee members will take a call on Friday around 9.30am after a discussion.”“We want to help our Muslim brothers as they do not have space to offer namaz, and are facing problems. We want to spread love and harmony and this move will bring us together,” he added.Sherdil Singh Sandhu, president, Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha that manages five gurdwaras in the city, was not available for comment despite repeated calls and messages.Over the past two months, right-wing outfits have tried to disrupt namaz being offered in open spaces, specially in Sector 12. On October 29, 35 protesters were detained for attempting to disrupt Friday prayers. Representatives of the Muslim community had agreed to relocate from the Sector 12 site, urging the administration to allot them alternative space, and also clear encroachments from Waqf board properties.Ahmad said the Gurgaon Muslim Council will hold a felicitation programme in Sector 12 for the members of the Sikh community and gurdwara management for their generous offer.Last week, Akshay Yadav, a resident of Sector 12, offered his shop’s premises for Friday prayers.Members of the Muslim community said namaz will be offered at 20 sites designated by the district administration, and sought police protection.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said they have decided to deploy at least 500 policemen at different locations, and will take strict action against anyone who tries to disrupt namaz. “We are coordinating with the Muslim community and our men will be deployed in plainclothes too. We urge residents to maintain law and order and not to disrupt any religious activities anywhere across the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/symbolic-namaz-at-one-gurugram-gurdwara-as-sikhs-mark-gurupurab-101637261163469.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s new committee to focus on long-term strategy to reduce pollution||The district-level committee on pollution announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday has been tasked with devising long-term strategies and adopting short-term measures to mitigate pollution in Gurugram. The committee will seek suggestions from residents and experts who want to contribute to this issue, said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, who will head the panel.Officials said the committee will be formed within a week. Reducing vehicle pollution, dust mitigation, increasing the number of water bodies and afforestation will be the prime focus of the committee, he said on Thursday.Khattar announced the formation of this committee after the issue of rising pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR) came up for discussion during a grievance redressal meeting in Gurugram on Wednesday. The chief minister said the committee will comprise senior engineers from all civic agencies and different departments.“The resources and technical knowledge of different agencies will be combined. Efforts will be made to find long-term and permanent solutions for this problem. We are planning to increase green cover, take permanent measures to reduce dust on roads, and also focus on reducing vehicular pollution and creating more ponds,” said Garg.Reclaiming of water bodies and ponds will also be key objectives of the committee, apart from creating more such water bodies to improve moisture in the air and help reduce pollution, he said.The deputy commissioner also said that engineers and technical personnel from different agencies, who are decision-makers, will be key members of the committee. “We will also be seeking suggestions and ideas from city residents and experts to resolve this issue. The prime objective is to bring down local pollution to a minimum,” he said.With a dip in temperature and an increase in farm fires, Gurugram’s air quality shot up into the “severe” category after Diwali (which was celebrated on November 4) and has since then improved to “very poor”, leading to the suspension of offline classes in schools and colleges and the temporary closure of industrial units not using CNG or PNG as fuel. Gurugram’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading was recorded at 323 on Thursday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, and the situation is likely to remain the same until there is an improvement in wind speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-new-committee-to-focus-on-long-term-strategy-to-reduce-pollution-101637261044834.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Don’t ply diesel buses older than 5 years on Delhi route: Govt to states||The Delhi government has written to Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan governments to direct their state transport corporations to not send diesel-run buses that are older than five years to the national Capital.It also urged the state governments to divert trucks through other routes before they reach Delhi borders to curb congestion which will also help check air pollution.The letter comes after the Supreme Court last week ordered the state government to take emergent steps in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution, and a directive by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) issued a slew of measures to curb pollution.The government’s letter to the neighbouring states, a copy of which is with HT, said that public transport in the national Capital runs “100% on CNG”, but buses from other states largely continue to run on diesel. “NGT has already directed that diesel vehicles of more than 10 years of life will not be allowed to ply in NCR… I seek your support to strengthen our hands in dealing with the grave situation by minimising the deployment of diesel buses destined for Delhi. It would be appreciated if vehicles of more than five years vintage are not deployed on Delhi bound routes till such time the pollution abates,” said the letter by Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra.It said that enforcement teams in Delhi have been given a clear mandate to impound and scrap any such diesel vehicles found plying in the Capital. “All stage carriage buses are also required to carry a valid pollution under control (PUC) certificate as per provisions of Central Motor Vehicle Act. Enforcement authorities are issuing challans for any vehicles found without a valid PUC in Delhi, which will also be applicable to buses,” the letter said.On re-routing trucks in advance, Kundra wrote: “May I request you to advise local district authorities to divert such trucks beyond the NCR limit itself to avoid congestion at the borders in Delhi and disruption in normal traffic.”The Commission for Air Quality Monitoring (CAQM) on November 16 issued directions mandating the NCR and Delhi authorities to ensure that trucks carrying non-essential items should not be allowed to enter Delhi till November 21, or such further date as deemed necessary.The Supreme Court in the matter of MC Mehta Vs UOI & Ors had earlier directed that the government of UP, Haryana and Rajasthan should provide large size billboards at the exit points towards the alternative highways to inform commercial traffic of diversions. The Supreme Court had also directed that the said governments will take steps to ensure that commercial traffic having destinations other than Delhi should use alternative routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-ply-diesel-buses-older-than-5-years-on-delhi-route-govt-to-states-101637261043338.html
19-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad girl students win national competition with their ‘unique’ innovation||Two students from Ghaziabad bagged the first and fourth place for their innovation and creativity in a national competition organized by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) –Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow. The competition called Empowering Pupil innovation and Creativity, (EPIC) 2021 was conducted by CSIR –Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow, as a part of CSIR Jigyasa, an initiative taken by the CSIR to inspire and motivate the youth to develop innovative scientific thought process and temperament. As part of the selection criteria, 25 entries were shortlisted from more than 3,000 total entries received from all over the country. For the next round, students had to present their innovation in the form of a power point presentation in front of a panel of judges consisting of scientists & educationists, for which the CSIR conducted mentoring sessions in order to refine and improve the students’ innovation.Class 10 student Dhruvi Gupta created an ‘innovative easy toothbrush’, which won her the first prize in the competition. “This toothbrush is designed with the aim to enable people to maintain their oral hygiene even when they are travelling. It is a long thin stretch of sterile paper which can be wrapped around the finger and used to brush teeth. It is similar to a paper soap and needs just a drop of water to become a toothpaste,” said Dhruvi.The 15-year-old added, “This project will not only help travellers but will also benefit police officers, soldiers, astronauts and the underprivileged as it costs only ₹1 for two strips of paper. This price will further decrease when the product is manufactured in bulk”.Dhruvi has been working on the project since she was in Class 7, said Sunila Athley, principal of Amity International School, Vasundhara in Ghaziabad.“Dhruvi had done her research before starting the project; the product was developed a year later when she was in Class 8. The product had to be tested multiple times and it was a year later that the final product was ready,” said Athley.Dhruvi says she wants to be a space scientist when she grows up and has interest in space aeronautics. She was given ₹10,000 as prize money for winning the competition.Meanwhile, Class 9 student Adite Sharma, who is also from the same school, was declared the third runner-up for her innovation titled “Suraksha Kit” and was awarded a cash prize of ₹5,000. The Suraksha Box is a Ultraviolet C (UVC)-light based sanitization box that disinfects a wide variety of things such as keys, masks, wallets and so on.“As the pandemic hit the world in March 2020, the need for sanitization became of utmost importance. I started working on a UV light-led sterilization box for household use. My father, who is also an engineer, helped me with the same and two weeks later, the box was ready to use,” said the 14-year-old.In order to use the box, the product to be sanitized can be placed inside the box and the process starts after switching it on. “The UV light rays kill 99% of the germs and infection on the product. The box also has an emergency cut off switch, which immediately stops the radiation in case someone opens the box while it is under process,” said Adite, a resident of Indirapuram.School principal Athley said the school encourages creative and innovative thinking among the students right from Class 5.“The school runs a programme called Vasudha for students above Class 5 wherein, during the summer holidays, they are encouraged to think about an idea, which can be a project or a prototype. When the school reopens, the students hold presentations for their idea and teachers give them inputs on the same. These initiatives have helped our students achieve accolades and we are very proud of them,” said Athley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-girl-students-win-national-competition-with-their-unique-innovation-101637260983369.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||In a first, Delhi govt allows diesel vehicles to be retrofitted into EVs||The Delhi government on Thursday took two significant steps to boost electric vehicles (EVs) numbers in the city — one. it has allowed the conversion of old diesel vehicles into EVs so that they can be run in Delhi-NCR even after 10 years; and two, electric-light commercial vehicles (e-LCVs) will now be exempted from time specific route restrictions and prohibition on idle parking, which are currently applicable to all goods vehicles to reduce pollution and decongest the city.The Delhi traffic police has also issued a circular in this regard in line with the decision of the Delhi government. Several rounds of deliberations were held with the Delhi traffic police to effectively implement the policy and finally, it has now been notified,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said at a press briefing on Thursday.“The L5N category three-wheeler goods carrier and N1 category goods carrier having gross vehicle weight not exceeding 3.5 tonnes will now be allowed to ply on Delhi’s roads at any time. Since the launch of the Delhi EV policy in August last year, the sale of e-LCVs has gone up from just 46 to 1,054, which is a 95.6% hike in terms of registration. We are hopeful that today’s decisions would give a huge push to mass adoption of EVs across categories in Delhi,” the minister further said.Due to congestion during peak hours and increasing vehicular pollution, the movement of commercial vehicles is restricted on over 250 major roads in Delhi during “no entry” hours. Light commercial vehicles are prohibited on these roads from 7am to 11am and from 5pm to 9pm.Gahlot also announced that the Delhi government is going to allow retrofitting of diesel vehicles in the city which will enable their use beyond the prescribed time span of 10 years, a first such move in the country.“Delhi is now open to the electric retrofitting of internal combustion engines (ICEs). Diesel vehicles, if found fit, can now be converted to EVs by retrofitting. The transport department will soon empanel manufacturers of pure electric kits by approved testing agencies, so that diesel vehicles may continue plying here beyond 10 years,” Gahlot said.Registered diesel vehicles more than 10 years old, and any vehicle over 15 years old, including petrol variants, cannot operate in Delhi-NCR, as per the orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (2015) and the Supreme Court (2018).At least 100,000 such vehicles have been deregistered so far by the Delhi transport department. The number is pretty low as there are 3.8 million overaged vehicles in Delhi that technically cannot ply on city roads. Of these 3.8 million, 3.5 million are petrol variants that are 15 years or more older and approximately 300,000 are diesel vehicles that are 10 years or more older.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-delhi-govt-allows-diesel-vehicles-to-be-retrofitted-into-evs-101637260865990.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||41 occupancy papers revoked as Gurugram homeowners face heat over plan violations||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Thursday said that it had withdrawn and cancelled the occupation certificates (OCs) issued to 41 house owners for violating their building plans after obtaining the OCs. DTCP officials said that the violations were being viewed seriously and they were also planning to get FIRs registered against the violators. A property owner is required to obtain an OC to access essential services and occupy the property. The buildings which were inspected and had their licenses cancelled were located in Palam Vihar, Uppal South End, Vipul World, Sun City, DLF phase one and Vatika India Next in Sector 83. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that last week, the enforcement department formed teams to inspect buildings whose owners had received OCs. They observed large-scale violations during the inspections. “We decided to cancel the OCs of 41 such buildings. We issued notices to the architects concerned and will take action against contractors. We notified the tehsildars of these areas and asked them not to register the deeds of these properties,” he said. DTCP officials said that violations in these plots majorly included covering setbacks, constructions in stilt areas, building extra rooms and additional constructions. The department is now planning to lodge complaints with the police against plot owners, architects and contractors, said officials. “We have received strict instructions from our headquarter that building plan violations in plots must not be tolerated and strict action must be taken against individual owners. We will also demolish such additional constructions and seal the premises,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement. Recently, the enforcement wing also demolished such illegal construction in a house in DLF Phase 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/41-occupancy-papers-revoked-as-gurugram-homeowners-face-heat-over-plan-violations-101637260864562.html
19-11-2021||Noida||At 13,113 doses, Gautam Budh Nagar falls short of mega vaccination drive target||Gautam Budh Nagar inoculated 13,113 people against its target of 24,000 beneficiaries during the mega Covid-19 vaccination drive held on Thursday, said officials. More than 5,000 beneficiaries got their first dose, and 8,006 received their second dose on Thursday.The vaccination drive was carried out at government Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) -- with 44 in Bisrakh block, 12 in Dankaur block, 14 in Jewar block, and 13 in Dadri block.According to the CoWIN portal, so far, the district has administered 2,918,466 doses -- 1,842,652 first doses and 1,075,814 second doses. Officials, meanwhile, said that the district has achieved 120% coverage of the first dose of Covid vaccines.“According to the official estimates, Gautam Budh Nagar has a population of 15.89 lakh, and we have already administered the first dose to 18.42 lakh people, which is 120% of our target. In addition, there is still a floating population in the district which has been turning up to get the first dose,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer.He, however, did not comment on the district falling short of meeting its target on Thursday.“The health department conducted a door-to-door surveillance in the district from September 7 to 16, in which 56,489 people above the age of 45 years were yet to take the jab. Since then, over 40,000 of the beneficiaries have been vaccinated, but still, nearly 10,000 to 15,000 people -- above the age of 60 years -- are yet to get the first dose. The health department’s Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers have also been tasked to administer vaccines to these people,” Dr Tyagi added.Official data shows that 2,075,645 people in the 18-44 age group, 558,231 people in the 45-60 age group, and 284,590 people above the age of 60 years have been vaccinated so far.“Nearly 70% of the total beneficiaries come to get their second dose, and the remaining for the first dose. Though the number of beneficiaries for the second dose has increased in the past two months, beneficiaries wanting to get their first dose have remained almost consistent -- just with a slight decline,” said Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent, Bhangel CHC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-13-113-doses-gautam-budh-nagar-falls-short-of-mega-vaccination-drive-target-101637260863371.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Of over 700 complaints, only 200 addressed so far||Out of 733 pollution-related complaints registered with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) over a 28-day period, only 229 have been redressed by various government agencies, according to a review by the pollution control body that highlights the lack of robustness in Delhi’s response to its annual bad air crisis.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation topped the list of agencies that recorded the most unresolved complaints -- 105 out of 126 for an 83% pendency. It was followed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (112 unresolved out of 140) with 80% pendency, while the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Delhi Development Authority had resolved only one out of four and nine of 35 complaints they respectively received.The two corporations are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, and NDMC and DDA are agencies under the aegis of Union government.The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) was lagging too, having resolved only one of the six complaints it received. And so were the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), which redressed one of the five complaints forwarded to it, and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIDC), which addressed 21 of 36 complaints. DJB, DPCC and DSIIDC come under the Delhi government.The data from the CPCB review for complaints registered between October 20 and November 17 was accessed by HT. Across the city, 504 (or 68%) complaints were still pending across multiple agencies.Delhi Traffic Police, with 13 out of 18 complaints resolved, was among the better performers on this parameter, and the state Public Works Department led the pack with 22 out of 29 complaints resolved.CPCB allows the Delhi residents to file pollution-related complaints -- such as garbage dumping, open fires, dumping of construction waste, and road dust -- either on their official website or through their online redressal portal Sameer, which was launched in 2018.Complainants can upload pictures of violations in their localities, giving a description of the area. After assessing the credibility of the complaint, the pollution monitoring body assigns it to various agencies that are responsible for addressing that particular issue.“The pollution complaints that are logged with CPCB are first reviewed and then forwarded to the agencies concerned for action. Every day we conduct a review to assess the action taken. If complaints are pending for a long duration then we follow it up with the agencies concerned,” said a senior CPCB.Since a day after Diwali, when Delhi’s air entered the severe zone for the first time this season, the air quality has remained in the dangerous range for several days. It was only after at least a week of the city breathing toxic air that the CAQM on the intervention of the Supreme Court issued a set of directions to the governments of Delhi-NCR, which included the shutting down of schools, banning of trucks inside Delhi and ban on construction activities.When contacted, Jogi Ram Jain, the chairperson of the north corporation standing committee, said the civic body has deployed its maximum staff strength for pollution control this season.“I cannot say for sure about why the pendency of complaints is so high, but we have made dedicated teams that are on-ground even at night. They keep a watch on cases of open fires. During the day, our teams ensure that water sprinkling is done on all our roads and mechanical sweeping is also being regularly carried out,” Jain said.A senior PWD official said they were following the directions issued by the state government to control pollution at their construction sites. He said they were prioritising pollution-related complaints, and have given deadlines to their teams to ensure that they were resolved on time.“Pollution control is our priority. Even within the department we have fixed accountability so that complaints are resolved as soon as possible,” the official said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “Fixing responsible is a must when we are dealing with multiple agencies. The whole point of having a public redressal system is to ensure that action is taken against complaints and considering that most of your pollution related action is time sensitive, it is imperative that reviews are done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-of-over-700-complaints-only-200-addressed-so-far-101637260685521.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Only intended to scare, not kill, says man who pointed gun at cop||Shahrukh Pathan, who is in judicial custody for pointing a pistol at a policeman during the north-east Delhi riots in February last year, moved a bail plea before the city court on Thursday, stating that he only intended to scare the policeman and not kill him.Photographs of Pathan pointing a gun at head constable Deepak Dahiya were widely on social media and he was arrested on March 3, 2020. Pathan is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. He is facing charges of rioting with a deadly weapon, attempt to murder, assault, and obstructing public servants in the discharge of duty under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.Seeking bail for Pathan, senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy told the court that no offence of attempt to murder was made out against her client. Guruswamy said Pathan did not shoot Dahiya, instead he only asked the policeman to step back.To prove her point, the counsel played a 26-second video of the alleged incident in the court and said Pathan fired two shots — one in the air and second to his right — following which he had a heated conversation with Dahiya and turned back.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat asked the lawyer to replay the video and pointed towards the position of Pathan’s gun just before he fired in the air.“Look at the position of his gun. It is not pointed up. It is straight (at Dahiya). When he is taking aim, it is straight,” the judge noted.The advocate, however, clarified that neither of the two gunshots was aimed at the head constable.“The state’s case is based on Dahiya. He is the potential victim and he was not fired at. The first (shot) is in the air and the second is to the right,” she said.“If I (counsel speaking for the accused) wanted to shoot him, I would have but that was not the intention. I turned around and ran away. Does any of this demonstrate the intention to kill or shoot him? At best, this is the intention to scare….We had a conversation as heated as it can be and then we retreated. Where is the intention to kill? Guruswamy said.Special public prosecutor Anuj Handa, appearing for the police, said Pathan had clearly pointed the gun at the policeman.Opposing Guruswamy’s arguments that Pathan had no intention to kill Dahiya, Handa said, “The gun is pointed slightly downwards directly at the head of the complainant. His (Pathan’s) hand going upwards is because of the recoil after shots are fired.”“The question I ask myself is this, during the first part of the video, he shoots in different directions of the mob, who might be belonging to a different community. Suppose any person succumbed to injuries, would the offence not have been made out? the prosecutor said.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after a standoff between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and opposers got out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-only-intended-to-scare-not-kill-says-man-who-pointed-gun-at-cop-101637260683211.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||Barricades set up on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway; 200 trucks diverted away from Capital||A day after the Delhi government issued an order banning the entry of heavy vehicles into the Capital till November 21, Gurugram police on Thursday set up barricades at 10 locations in the district and diverted trucks through KMP Expressway towards other states. Police said that at least 200 trucks that were on their way to Delhi via Gurugram were diverted from Shankar Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Thursday, in compliance with the measures announced to prevent further deterioration of air quality in the National Capital Region. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Drivers of around 500 trucks were asked to bypass the routes at Bilaspur and Manesar via KMP Expressway. We have set up checkpoints and deployed teams at all locations where heavy vehicles enter the expressway. At least 300 personnel are deployed at the borders and are checking all vehicles to ensure only vehicles carrying essential commodities enter the city,” he said. Police said heavy vehicles that had already entered Gurugram were sent back from Shankar Chowk after taking a U-turn. Police set up checkpoints at Shankar Chowk, two kilometres before the Sirhaul toll plaza, Bilaspur, Bijwasan, Bajghera and Manesar. These points connect to industrial areas and witness heavy movement of trucks, said police. Gurugram police have also asked neighbouring districts – Nuh, Rewari and Jhajjar – to not allow heavy vehicles and re-route them via KMP Expressway. Traffic police said their staff is deployed in two shifts at KMP Expressway and 11 borders connecting Delhi to check the movement of heavy vehicles. However, a spot check by HT on Thursday showed that its enforcement remained lax at several border points as trucks went past tolls without any checks. At the Badarpur border, the toll collectors said that they were not aware of any directions to stop the entry of trucks coming into the city from Haryana. A toll collector said that around 20-25 trucks bearing Haryana registration had crossed the borders by Thursday afternoon. “Since morning, trucks are moving freely here. We are not aware of any restrictions and we have not been directed to check the vehicles before letting them pass,” said Sanjeev Kumar, who was stationed at the Badarpur toll booth on Thursday afternoon. This HT reporter saw at least five trucks bearing Haryana registration cross over to the Delhi side from Haryana. A few metres away from the toll, the driver of a medium-sized parked truck bearing a Haryana number plate, said, “I am on my way back. I am not aware of any restriction.”Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the contribution from trucks in Delhi’s air has reduced over the last couple years due to the expressways, but they are still one of the biggest polluters in the vehicle segment. “These are heavy duty vehicles, and trucks enter Delhi in the night when temperatures are low and these emissions can stay trapped in the air till the next day. In our analysis in 2015, we found that trucks were contributing to around 30% of the total pollution due to vehicles,” she said. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said while the ban on entry of trucks into Delhi was a good move, there also needs to be a restriction on the movement of private vehicles in order to complement the ban. “Cutting down intra-city vehicular traffic would not only reduce vehicular exhaust emissions but also contribute to reducing re-suspended dust and idling emissions,” she said. Construction sites asked to take measures Traffic police also said that no vehicle from outside or within Gurugram will be permitted to transport any construction material until November 21. They have formed at least 30 teams to keep a check on construction sites and directed contractors to sprinkle water on construction material at their sites. ACP (traffic) Balhara said that according to National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines, regular sprinkling of water is essential and tarpaulin sheets must be placed above dust mounds at construction sites. “We called all contractors at construction sites and directed them to not violate NGT orders. If anyone is found violating rules and regulations, they will be penalised and their work will be stopped with immediate effect,” he said. With inputs from Soumya Pillai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/barricades-set-up-on-delhi-gurgaon-expressway-200-trucks-diverted-away-from-capital-101637260627459.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air quality continues to remain in ‘very poor’ category||Gurugram’s air quality continued to remain in the “very poor” category on Thursday, due to the dip in temperature and low wind speed, which, according to experts, are not allowing pollutants over Gurugram and adjoining areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) to disperse.Gurugram’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading was recorded at 323 on Thursday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, and the situation is likely to remain the same until there is an improvement in wind speed.This, however, was a slight improvement compared to Wednesday’s AQI reading of 344.All four stations in Gurugram recorded ‘very poor’ air quality on Thursday. Vikas Sadan recorded the highest AQI reading-- 355, followed by Sector 51--324, Teri Gram recorded an AQI reading of 313 and Gwal Pahari recorded an AQI reading of 301.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), winds from northern hilly states are moving towards the plains, which will bring down the temperature further. Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor, Teri School of Advanced Studies, said that though there was some dissipation of pollutants two days ago, the situation has again worsened and is unlikely to change in the next few days. “The accumulation of pollutants is taking place again and unless there is a major change in wind speed, or there is some rain, the pollution will remain in the ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ category, as the temperature is also dipping,” she said.Haryana State Pollution Control Board, meanwhile, said that district authorities and civic agencies were taking all measures according to the Graded Response Action Plan. S Narayanan, member secretary, state pollution control board, said that directions from Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas were being implemented to reduce pollution.The CAQM late night Tuesday directed that schools, colleges, and educational institutions in the National Capital Region will remain closed until further orders. It also said that only five of the 11 thermal power plants located within a 300km radius of Delhi will remain operational till November 30, construction and demolition activities are banned in Delhi-NCR till November 21, and trucks carrying non-essential items have been banned from entering Delhi till Sunday.The district administration said that all civic agencies have been asked to enforce anti-pollution measures and also to take proactive action to help improve air quality.“The construction ban is being implemented strictly. Dust control measures have also been taken and industrial units using CNG and PNG are only allowed to operate,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.On Thursday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced the formation of a committee at the district-level to suggest and implement measures for improving air quality. He also said the government was mulling the implementation of an odd-even scheme for vehicles if there was general consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-air-quality-continues-to-remain-in-very-poor-category-101637260623847.html
19-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Demand grows for fire safety audit in housing societies||The fire which broke out in the Gardenia Golf City in Noida’s Sector 75 on Thursday has sparked panic among residents, who are now demanding that a fire safety audit be conducted in all the housing complexes in Noida to check if the residential towers have the necessary apparatus to douse a fire. Residents alleged most of the residential towers are yet to obtain fire safety clearances and that the government is doing little to address the issue. According to sources, at least 50,000 housing units in at least 50 newly built towers of different residential societies are occupied without the occupancy certificate issued by the Noida authority. This means at least 50 newly built residential towers are yet to put in place the necessary apparatus for controlling fires, which is mandatory if one has to obtain the occupancy certificate (OC). Many old residential towers also lack the requisite safety systems, said apartment owners. According to the provisions of the building bylaws, a building can be occupied only after the Noida authority issues an OC after inspection. The authority issues the OC after scrutinising multiple documents, including the fire safety clearance from the fire department. If a building does not have fire safety clearance--which is issued after the developer installs the fire safety apparatus, then the OC too is withheld and the building cannot be occupied on safety grounds. “We have learnt that many old and new buildings, such as Golf City in Sector 75, do not have the fire safety systems in place, thus putting people’s lives at risk. We demand a fire safety audit without any further delay; our previous request also failed to yield results,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NFAOA), an umbrella body of all AOAs in Noida.The Noida authority said it will look into the issue and take action immediately.“We do not issue OC without fire safety clearances...The authority will carry out the fire safety audit as and when we receive the applications from the apartment owners or residents,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.In April 2017, the fire department had assured residents to carry out a fire safety audit of all big buildings after a fire damaged a four-floor factory in Sector 11, killing six people and injuring one. The factory was allegedly operating without an OC. But no action has been taken till date. Residents said there are many lapses in terms of fire safety in most of the buildings such as defunct sprinklers, little space for movement of fire tenders, lack of water pipes in many housing societies, no mock drill in residential towers and even the response of the fire department is very poor.“We will look into the issue and find out if there are such lapses in the buildings of Noida. We will ask officials to submit a report on this matter.If it is true, then we will carry out a fire safety audit, in coordination with the Noida authority, ” said Aman Sharma, deputy director of Uttar Pradesh fire services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-demand-grows-for-fire-safety-audit-in-housing-societies-101637260623261.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||Construction of GMLR twin tunnels in Mumbai likely to kick off by next year||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expected to start construction work on the much-awaited Goregaon Mulund Link Road (GMLR) underground tunnels by mid-2022. While the work on the twin tunnels will take time, BMC officials said the project of connecting Western and Eastern Express Highways with two flyovers will kick off in the next two months.Officials said the project is currently at an advanced stage of tender and the bids are under scrutiny. Once the construction starts next year, the project may be ready by 2025.Although the total cost of the project is pegged at over ₹ 6,000 crore, it is expected that the cost will go up considering the project is at the tender stage for two years. As part of the construction of GMLR below the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), BMC has proposed 4.75-km-long tunnels that will run under SGNP. The reserved forest area affected by the tunnels is around 19.43 hectares. The tunnels will run 20 metres (m) below the ground level of the national park up to 200m at selected spots. GMLR is a 14-km-long east-west connector, beginning near the Western Express Highway at Goregaon, and ending near Nahur station in the East.According to BMC officials, the tunnels will be dug with the tunnel boring machine (TBM) technology, which was used to dig the underground Metro-3 corridor and coastal road project. P Velrasu, additional civic commissioner, said, “The tenders for GMLR tunnels is at an advanced stage and we will finalise them in the coming months.”A BMC official from the bridges department said, “The construction of the tunnels is expected to start only by mid-2022. However, the two flyovers are expected to be approved by this month-end. By December end, work on these flyovers can take off.”The GMLR project aims to improve east-west connectivity in the suburbs for which BMC had approached firms in Korea, Japan, China, Hong Kong and other places.Once appointed, stakeholders will draft the design and methodology to construct the tunnels. However, Chinese companies were barred from bidding for the project.What is a TBM?TBM is a highly-mechanised earth pressure balance (EPB) device that is used around 20-25 metres below the ground to construct tunnels with a circular cross-section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/construction-of-gmlr-twin-tunnels-in-mumbai-likely-to-kick-off-by-next-year-101637260504475.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man wanted for murder of 91-year-old man in 2019 arrested||A man, wanted for the murder of a 91-year-old man in September 2019, was arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch on Wednesday. Police said the man, identified as Nishant Khan, has been in hiding since the murder and was arrested based on information they gleaned from five others arrested in the case, including mastermind Kishan. According to the police, Kishan, who was working as a domestic help for elderly couple Saroj Khosla and her husband Krishan Dev Khosla, residents of CR Park in south Delhi, allegedly drugged the couple and made off with valuables from the house, the police said. Saroj Khosla told police that when she regained consciousness, she found her husband and Kishan missing along with some valuables from the house. Police later found the elderly man’s body in Sangam Vihar, where it was stuffed inside a refrigerator and then buried in the ground. “We were on the lookout for Khan after receiving information about his whereabouts from the other arrested suspects. We came to know that he was hiding in Batla House area. We conducted a search on Wednesday and arrested him,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Manoj C. Narrating the details of the 2019 case, the DCP said, “Kishan along with the other suspects Nishant Khan, Deepak, Pradeep Sharma, Mushir Khan, Prabhu Dayal and Sarvesh, conspired to rob his employer’s house and also to extort a ransom from the family after kidnapping his employer. The plan was to release the man after the ransom was paid, and escape to Nepal. As per the plan, Kishan give sedatives to the couple. It was Mushir who arranged the place where the body was later buried. He took a house on rent and also dug a pit with help of labourers to bury the body.” “After the couple fell unconscious, they robbed the house of valuables and murdered the elderly man. The body was hidden in a refrigerator at the house itself. That fridge was later shifted to the rented house in a hired vehicle and buried there with the body still stuffed inside. They withdrew money using Khosla’s ATM card. We arrested all suspects, except Khan, soon after the crime ,” said DCP Manoj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-wanted-for-murder-of-91-year-old-man-in-2019-arrested-101637260503314.html
19-11-2021||Gurugram||3 areas in Gurugram declared as containment zones as Covid cases increase||The district administration on Thursday declared three residential areas containment zones in the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases. According to the health department, these areas are The Belaire on Golf Course Road, from where three positive cases were reported, Central Park Resort on Sohna Road and Sector 46 (near a private school), where four cases were reported each. Gurugram recorded a Covid-related death on Wednesday, taking the district’s total toll to 925. “This is the second Covid-related fatality in November. The woman who died was 75 years old and had comorbidities--a prior heart ailment, asthma, hypertension, and diabetes,” said Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Virender Yadav. On Monday, a 71-year-old man died of Covid-19. He was fully vaccinated and had comorbidities, according to district health officials. On Thursday, the district reported 13 new Covid-19 cases while 18 people recovered from the infection. There are 80 active Covid-19 cases in the district, of which 72 are in home isolation and eight are hospitalised. Officials said 10,215 people were vaccinated on Thursday, with 3,763 people being administered the first dose and 6,452 the second dose. Over 3.73 million people have been vaccinated in Gurugram so far. The district administration on Thursday issued an order authorising the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and police to define the perimeter of the containment zones. Officials said that the perimeter of the containment zone in the three areas will be restricted to a three-kilometre radius from the point where the Covid-19 cases have been reported.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that police are demarcating the perimeter by barricading and sealing the entry and exit points around the three-kilometre radius. “We have asked the police to set up barricades in the area so that specific entry and exit points can be closed. We are trying to create awareness about the perimeter through announcements,” he said. CMO Dr Yadav said that they have already completed contact tracing of all affected families in the three areas. “We asked the district administration to declare these areas as containment zones to ensure the cases are not spread. People with symptoms or even primary and secondary contacts of a Covid-19 patient should mask up and isolate themselves immediately. Though the number of positive cases is low, people still have to be careful and should avoid stepping out unnecessarily,” he said. He said that after festivals and during the ongoing wedding season, the city is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. “We have requested police to direct the area station house officers concerned to ensure strict home isolation of Covid-19 patients,” he said. The residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of the area have also been informed, said police. Rajkumar Yadav, the president of Sector 46 RWA, said that they have not received any information regarding positive cases. “We have formed a team to ensure that essential needs are delivered at their doorstep and the families are provided an ambulance for any medical emergency. Also, the sanitation of the area will be taken care of,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3-areas-in-gurugram-declared-as-containment-zones-as-covid-cases-increase-101637260446055.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 active cases in Uttar Pradesh cross 100-mark again||With a dozen fresh Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the number of active Covid count in the state crossed 100-mark on Thursday, according to the report from the state health department. There are 101 active coronavirus infection cases under treatment in Uttar Pradesh, the report stated. Till November 5 the number of active cases was recorded below 100 since the second wave came in April. During the day, 12 new cases were reported and only six patients recovered. A maximum of 25 active Covid cases is under treatment in Gautam Buddha Nagar followed by Lucknow reporting 19 active cases and Prayagraj with 13 cases. Bareilly, Kanpur Dehat, Lakhimpur Kheri and Meerut have three active cases each. Six districts have two active cases each and 20 districts have one case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-active-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-cross-100-mark-again-101637260330542.html
19-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad Development Authority selects land for parking spaces at RRTS stations||The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has identified and finalised the proposal for land to be made available for vehicle parking at five of the total seven stations of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project, officials said on Thursday.GDA officials said that a minimum of 2,000-square-metre (sqm) land was identified for parking for the project, and it is also included in the proposed Master Plan 2031 which will be finalised soon.The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), implementing the 82-kilometre-long RRTS project pegged at ₹30,274 crore -- which is proposed to link Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut with high-speed train connectivity, and is scheduled to be commissioned in 2025.A part of it -- about 40km of the route -- falls under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad, where the NCRTC is developing RRTS stations at Sahibabad (land not found), Ghaziabad (already has parking provisions), Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar (South and North).“In wake of the ridership and utility of the project for commuters, we have identified land at five stations, where at least 2,000sqm of land has been identified. At Modinagar (south) station, the land area is nearly 3,000sqm. A provision for parking at the Ghaziabad station is already included in the project. Besides, we could not find any land for parking near the Sahibabad station,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner, GDA.“The land will be handed over to NCRTC for development and maintenance. It is expected that a 2,000sqm land will cater to nearly 84 cars or 400-500 two-wheelers. The proposal has also been included in the upcoming Master Plan 2031 and sent to the state government for approval,” Shivpuri added.According to estimates of GDA officials, a car for parking and taking turns among others require at least 24sqm of space. More two-wheelers will be seen at stations like Modinagar, Muradnagar and Duhai among others, and stations in the city will comparatively have more cars, they said.According to the detailed project report, the estimated ridership of the RRTS project is about eight lakh passengers per day. The NCRTC is taking up a 17km stretch between Sahibabad and Duhai in Ghaziabad -- as a priority stretch -- which will be the first stretch opened for commuter operation in India. It is likely to be opened for passenger operation by March 2023.Meanwhile, NCRTC officials said that they are working with the local administration and government authorities closely to provide parking spaces, and park-and-ride provisions according to the requirement of particular stations and land availability.“At RRTS station locations, service roads are being provisioned to segregate station-bound traffic from regular road traffic for smooth traffic operations, and to avoid traffic congestions. In addition, for efficient multimodal integration, various space provisions are being made for proper pick-up and drop facilities for various modes bound to RRTS station locations for efficient traffic dispersal,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer (PRO) of NCRTC.The RRTS project is set to offer a better experience to the commuters, and will also enable shift of commuters from private to public transport, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-development-authority-selects-land-for-parking-spaces-at-rrts-stations-101637260326326.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||SC to hear plea against appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi CP next week||The Supreme Court will hear next week a petition challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as commissioner of Delhi Police. On July 27, the 1984-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre was appointed Delhi Police commissioner for a one year term with just four days remaining for his superannuation.A petition pending on this issue was taken up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna.The petitioner – Centre for Public Interest Litigation – represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan informed the court that a judgment on the same issue was delivered by the Delhi high court on October 12 upholding the appointment of Asthana. Bhushan requested the court to consider his petition in the light of the October 12 order.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre objected to this suggestion and told the bench that once the high court had passed its decision, the CPIL petition will not be maintainable. Only an appeal against the high court order can be heard, Mehta added.He was supported by counsel for Asthana, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who informed the court that the appeal alone was sufficient to be heard and not the petition.The bench said, “We will not direct the petitioner to file an appeal. But to obviate technicality, would the petitioner not be well advised to also file an appeal against the HC judgment, so that in the final hearing this should not come in the way.”Bhushan agreed to file the appeal, and the bench allowed the appeal to be filed by Monday ordering the petition to come up for hearing with the fresh appeal on Friday.The petition questioned Asthana’s appointment on the ground that no panel of names was formed by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as held by the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh case. Also, a clear direction to ensure a secured, two-year tenure for DGP stood violated with the one-year appointment of Asthana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scto-hear-plea-against-appointment-of-rakesh-asthana-as-delhi-cp-next-week-101637260325144.html
19-11-2021||Mumbai||District Mental Health Programme to be rolled out in Mumbai soon||The Centre-funded District Mental Health Programme (DMHP), which is already running in 34 districts of Maharashtra, is likely to be rolled out soon in Mumbai. To start with, the Centre has sanctioned posts of two psychiatrists and other required staff in the programme, which is likely to be approved by next year. The DMHP is implemented by the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) in all states. The programme consists of seven posts in each district including a psychiatrist, clinical psychologist, psychiatric nurse, psychiatric social worker, community nurse among other staff. “We had put up a proposal under the Programme Implementation Plan (PIP). The posts will be sanctioned over the next few months,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, Director of DHS, Maharashtra. Mumbai has a strong network of medical facilities under the BMC. Thus, newer programmes can often lead to replication. To avoid this, the DHS plans to get a non-profit organisation to conduct a preliminary survey and find the gaps in mental health facilities in the city. “The challenges in Mumbai can be very different compared to the other 34 districts in Maharashtra, as the city is very populated and has a larger migrant population,” said Dr Padmaja Jogewar, Joint Director (non-communicable diseases), DHS. “The pandemic has led to a spurt in mental health issues and rolling out this programme will only help cater to a larger population,” she said. While funding from the Centre is crucial, finding psychiatrists is a major challenge, said DHS officials. At present, there are 41 posts of psychiatrists sanctioned under DMHP in the state, but 11 are currently vacant. “Filling the vacancies is our utmost priority. We have given out many advertisements and have also conducted interview sessions,” said Dr Tayade. The Bellary ModelThe DMHP was started in 1996 under the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) by the Centre. It aims at early detection and treatment of common mental illnesses with a limited number of drugs under the guidance of a specialist. Health workers are trained to identify signs of mental illnesses, spread public awareness and monitor. This four-point concept is known as the ‘Bellary Model’, as it was first implemented in the Bellary district of Karnataka. The DMHP staff regularly visit villages and households to conduct awareness sessions in schools and colleges, in an effort to raise awareness in the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/district-mental-health-programme-to-be-rolled-out-in-mumbai-soon-101637260263312.html
19-11-2021||Noida||12 shops gutted, 16 flats damaged in fire at Noida’s Sec 75 Gardenia Golf City||Twelve shops were gutted and about 16 flats damaged after a fire broke at a shop in the Golf City Circle Mart of Gardenia Golf City in Noida’s Sector 75 early Thursday morning.Police said residents safely evacuated from the 16-storey towers of the housing complex as soon as the fire started and no one was injured. However, the value of the goods and property damaged is yet to be ascertained. According to developers of the housing project, there are 1,026 flats in 13 towers, of which 650 flats are occupied. Residents have been living here since 2017 and the shops too became operational around the same time. Vikram Singh Yadav, president of the society’s market association, said there are 43 shops and departmental stores on the ground floor. “A security guard spotted the fire in a shop around 4am Thursday. The guard immediately alerted police and other officials. Residents swiftly evacuated the flats,” said Yadav.A spot visit by HT showed that 12 shops in a row were gutted. The flames also spread upwards and reached up to the eighth floor of two towers, partially damaging 16 flats.The Aims Max Gardenia Developers is currently looking after the maintenance of the society. Basant Kumar Upadhyay, general manager, Gardenia Golf City, said the fire originated from a snacks shop on the ground floor.“The security guards first tried to extinguish the fire but they failed as it quickly spread. The guards then broke the shop’s shutter, and the air from outside facilitated the spread of the fire to the other shops,” said Upadhyay.He said only three shops were gutted while others suffered minor damages. “As the flames spread upwards, the windows, DTH antennas, and air-conditioners of a few flats in towers I and J were damaged,” he said.HT spoke to a few shopkeepers, who said each of them has incurred losses to the tune of ₹5-6 lakh. Sushila Gautam, a sweet shop owner, said her shop was gutted in the fire. “My staff closed shop at 10.30pm on Wednesday and went home. Around 7am on Thursday, someone informed me about the fire. I have no idea what to do now,” said 65-year-old Gautam, who had been running the shop for two years. Afzal Ahmad, owner of Looks Salon, said he owned two shops and one of them was damaged by the fire.Residents said fire tenders reached the spot around 5am, an hour after the fire broke out.Sanjeev Singh, fire safety officer, Noida 1, said the fire department received a call at 4.35am. “We reached the spot in 20 minutes. Eight fire tenders brought the fire under control in half an hour. It seems that a short circuit in the snacks shop led to the fire. Thankfully, no one was injured,” he said. Residents have expressed concerns over the safety of the housing complex. “This is a serious safety concern. Mostly, the shops are run by workers and not by the shop owners. There is no security check for them. The concerned officials should conduct a safety audit of the shops,” said a resident of the housing complex requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, developers of the housing complex said they are repairing the flats. “We are replacing the windows and other things that have been damaged. We have also called a meeting with the shopkeepers and residents on Saturday to discuss the issue and take safety measures,” Upadhyay said. Vinod Kumar, station house officer of Sector 49 police station, said he has not received any complaint regarding the fire incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12-shops-gutted-16-flats-damaged-in-fire-at-noida-s-sec-75-gardenia-golf-city-101637260204737.html
19-11-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal announces new 6-point plan to clean Yamuna||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday a six-point action plan to clean the Yamuna by February 2025 by improving the city’s sewage treatment capacity and network, cleaning major drains, de-silting storm water drains and taking action against industries releasing untreated waste, among other measures.Kejriwal at a digital press briefing reminded people of his key promise during the 2020 assembly elections of cleaning the river in the next five years and bathing in it to demonstrate its cleanliness. “Yamuna is close to everyone in Delhi. It is the lifeline of Delhi. Everyone wants to see a clean Yamuna. It took 70 years to dirty the river Yamuna. All the dirt of 70 years cannot be cleaned in two days. But, we have now prepared a six-point action plan to clean the Yamuna by February 2025. We have started work on these points on war footing,” he said.The first action point is increasing the city’s sewage treatment capacity and improving the quality of treatment. At present, Kejriwal said, Delhi has the capacity to treat only about 600 MGD of sewage because of which a lot of it is left untreated and released directly into the Yamuna. “The city actually needs sewage treatment plants (STPs) with a total capacity of 800-850 MGD. We are doing three things on this front: 1) Setting up new sewage treatment plants such as the coronation plant and the ones being built at Okhla, Kondli, Rithala and so on; 2) Increasing the capacity of the existing plants; 3) Existing plants are operating with old technology because of which even treated water is dirty and not up to the mark. We will upgrade the technology to ensure the released treated water is of 10/10 purity as per the normal standards,” he said.The second action point is in-situ cleaning of the city’s major drains. Kejriwal said the Najafgarh drain, Badshahpur drain, supplementary drain and Ghazipur drain will be cleaned on the spot with a new technology without diverting its waste to another plant. The remaining drains, he said, will be diverted to the city’s STPs.The third action point, Kejriwal said, would be to properly treat industrial waste and take action against units that do not adhere to the set norms. “A lot of industries on paper show that all their waste is being released only after proper treatment. But, the reality is that industrial waste treatment is practically not happening at present. All the effluent treatment plants that are not operating properly will be repaired and upgraded. The industries which fail to send their waste to effluent treatment plants will be shut down,” he said.The fourth focus point will be community toilets built in different slum clusters and jhuggis of Delhi. “At present, the waste from all the community toilets in jhuggis is released into storm water drains as a result of which their sewage is released directly into the river. These will be diverted and linked to sewage lines instead, so that the waste is treated properly,” the chief minister said.The fifth action point will be to increase household sewage connections in the city. “Many people still haven’t taken sewer connections in the city. Many households release their sewage directly into the local nullahs. We have decided that the Delhi government, on its own, will put sewer connections in people’s houses. They will not have to apply or seek permission from us. We will charge a nominal rate which will be adjusted in their water bills,” Kejriwal said.The sixth point will be de-silting and rehabilitation of the city’s entire existing sewer network. “I am personally monitoring this project. We have set specific milestones for each action point and I will ensure that the deadlines are not missed,” Kejriwal said.The Yamuna enters Delhi near Palla and travels about 48km through the city. The 22km stretch between Wazirabad to Okhla is the most polluted where 2% of the overall river length contributes to 70% of total pollution in the river, as the erstwhile Yamuna Monitoring Committee has repeatedly highlighted in its reports.Dumping of raw sewage, untreated industrial pollutants and solid waste are the key causes of pollution in the river. The three biggest drains contributing to the Yamuna pollution are Najafgarh, Supplementary and Shahdara drain.Manoj Mishra, convener of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said that of the action points announced by the government on Thursday, the tackling of industrial pollutants should be the immediate priority. “We have seen during the lockdown period in 2020 that Yamuna can be cleaner if industrial pollution can be checked and the ecological flow in the river can be ensured. The river has no future unless we ensure an ecological flow in it. Otherwise, no matter what we do, the conditions will not improve,” he remarked.Diwan Singh, another Yamuna activist who led a satyagraha for cleaning the river in 2007, said the actions of all previous government do not inspire confidence that the Yamuna can be cleaned by 2025. “Even when the AAP came to power, they announced that the river will be cleaned in 4-5 years but not an iota of difference in the condition of the river can be seen. The city continues to grow in an unplanned manner and the goalpost keeps shifting. Unless we tackle our urbanisation mess, the river cannot be cleaned. We will remain in this catch 22 situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-announces-new-6-point-plan-to-clean-yamuna-101637259843413.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||Frequency of PM Modi’s visits to Uttar Pradesh set to increase ahead of assembly polls||The frequency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visits to Uttar Pradesh is set to increase ahead of the 2022 assembly polls and he may now be seen in the state as frequently as twice or even thrice a week.After having inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway on November 16, PM Modi is scheduled to be in Bundelkhand on November 19. He is likely to reach Lucknow by November 19 evening and be here on November 20-21.He has already visited the state four times after laying the foundation stone of a university named after Jat king Mahendra Pratap Singh in Aligarh on September 21. PM Modi, who often speaks about benefits of a double engine (centre and state) government of the same party, is scheduled to visit the state at least four more times in the next four weeks.Next month, he is expected to visit the state to inaugurate the Bundelkhand Expressway, Gorakhpur Link Expressway and to lay the foundation of the Ganga Expressway, according to those aware of the matter.“Yes, a number of major projects are lined up for inauguration or foundation stone laying by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Many projects getting completed now are being inaugurated. The foundation stone ceremony is being organised to launch some other projects after completing the necessary formalities,” said an official spokesman.PM Modi was in Lucknow to inaugurate an urban conclave on October 5. He visited Kushinagar to inaugurate the Kushinagar International airport on October 21. He was in Varanasi on October 25 to launch Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY) worth ₹64,180 crore to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country and various development projects. He inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur on November 16 .Modi will be in Bundelkhand on November 19, to launch some major development projects of the defence ministry and the state government at Jhansi and Mahoba. He will be in the state capital to attend the 56th Conference of directors general of police (DGP) and inspectors general of police (IGP) at the Police Headquarters in Lucknow on November 20 and 21. He is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Noida international airport at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddha Nagar on November 25.With this, his visits to the state will go up to four in November. He paid three visits to the state last month.Besides, he is scheduled to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project in Varanasi on December 13.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who goes to every spot before Modi’s visit to review preparations, has nearly visited all the districts more than once in recent months. Yogi, who has been pushing major development projects, is also leaving no opportunity to make the maximum use of time and ensure that all the projects are launched before the model code of conduct comes into force for the 2022 polls.“Yes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, appears to be in election mode. As a good politician, he is making the maximum use of time to launch projects before the Election Commission’s code of conduct comes into force. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also using time in the best possible way to ensure the launch of the projects goes well ahead of the polls,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University.Leader of opposition in the state assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary said, “The prime minister is making frequent visits to the state obviously because of the 2022 assembly elections. He may come an umpteen number of times but the people of state have now made up their mind for installing the Akhilesh Yadav led Samajwadi Party government in 2022 polls in Uttar Pradesh.” On the other hand, UP BJP spokesman Chandra Mohan said, “Under Prime Minister’s leadership, the BJP got the mandate in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP has resolved to make a new Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is taking the state in the direction of making a new Uttar Pradesh. The Opposition has nothing to say and so its leaders are making unnecessary comments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/frequency-of-pm-modi-s-visits-to-uttar-pradesh-set-to-increase-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101637258643511.html
19-11-2021||Lucknow||UP, Uttarakhand to withdraw court cases against each other, says Dhami||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments on Thursday agreed to withdraw all court cases filed against each other, mainly over the division of properties and assets, and decided to resolve them through mutual cooperation. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami confirmed this after two back-to-back meetings with his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath. “An understanding has been reached on all matters that had lingered on for 21 years. All cases pending in the court would be withdrawn by both states and settled through mutual talks,” said Dhami. He also visited the UP BJP office and attended several functions, including the concluding ceremony of Uttarakhand Mahotsav. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanathji is like my elder brother and all pending issues between the two states were discussed heartily and a consensus was reached to settle them through mutual cooperation. Certain long pending issues have been settled on the spot while in some cases, officers on both sides would meet in 15 days to close the issues,” added Dhami. “I share an emotional bond with UP. I was born here, all my academic certificates – right from high school to intermediate, graduation and post-graduation as well as law, carry UP’s stamp. I still remember that I had cried a lot when I first left for Uttarakhand. We are common people, share a common heritage and that is why decided to quickly wrap up all pending matters between the two states,” he said. Uttarakhand was carved out of UP on November 9, 2000. Since then, the long pending issues had dragged on despite change of governments. Since 2000, while UP had seen five chief ministers discuss the issue – beginning with then UP CM Rajnath Singh followed by Mayawati, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav and Yogi Adityanath while Dhami was the 10th Uttarakhand chief minister to have taken up the issue of division of assets and liabilities between the two states. Since 2000, the hill state had seen various CMs including Nityanand Swami, Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, Narayan Dutt Tiwari, Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri, Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, Vijay Bahuguna, Harish Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat, Tirath Singh Rawat right till the present CM Pushkar Singh Dhami. The Uttarakhand CM also gave a breakup of the issues. “There has been this issue of 5,700 hectares land of irrigation department and 1,700 houses that fall between the borders of UP and Uttarakhand. We intend to close these long pending issues quickly. That’s why we have decided that on this issue of land settlement, officers on both sides would meet in 15 days. After joint surveys, we will decide mutually. Whatever UP needs would be handed over to it and the rest would be with Uttarakhand,” he said. “There is the old barrage in Champawat district on the Indo-Nepal border which would be reconstructed. The barrage at Kiccha that was damaged due to natural calamity on October 18 and 19 would also be reconstructed. The UP transport department would pay ₹205 crore to Uttarakhand and forest department of UP would pay ₹90 crore as dues to Uttarakhand while the properties of housing department and dues would be shared equally by both the states and the bus stand at Kiccha would be transferred to Uttarakhand,” he added. “Alaknanda Hotel in Haridwar would also be transferred to Uttarakhand in a month’s time. Chief minister Yogi Adityanathji too would pay a visit there,” said Dhami, adding that the NoC requirement for adventure sports on the Upper Ganga Canal had been waived off.Have requested Yogi to campaign in U’khand polls, says DhamiUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that he has requested his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath to campaign in the upcoming Uttarakhand Assembly elections. When asked if Adityanath will campaign during the Uttarakhand elections, Dhami said, “Yes, definitely. Why won’t he? He has to come. He will go everywhere. We have requested him, he will come there.” Adityanath held a meeting with Dhami where senior officials from both states were also present at the meeting. This meeting comes ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections and Uttarakhand Assembly elections that are slated to be held next year. Currently, the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power in both states. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-uttarakhand-to-withdraw-court-cases-against-each-other-says-dhami-101637241182257.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||ED custody ends, Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Khaira sent to judicial custody||A Mohali court on Thursday sent Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Khaira to 14-day judicial custody after hecompleted seven days of Enforcement Directorate (ED) remand in a money laundering case. The next date of hearing in the case has been fixed on December 2. The ED arrested Khaira, a former Punjab MLA, on November 11 under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency had raided his premises in March this year. The ED has alleged that Khaira was an accomplice of a drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. The ED told the court they have to probe the source of funds that Khaira got from the US for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2016. The ED said Khaira was issued notices four times, but he did not cooperate. Opposing the remand, Khaira’s lawyers Keshav Chaudhary and PS Walia pleaded in the drugs case stay was obtained from the Supreme Court. So, the ED couldn’t have arrested himKhaira alleged that his arrest was the result of some “Congress insiders’ vendetta” and handwork of “devils in disguise”. Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath seat on the AAP ticket. He resigned from the membership of the AAP in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, Punjab Ekta Party. He then joined the Congress in June this year. Plea in HC against arrest deferred to November 23Sukhpal Khaira’s plea against his arrest could not be taken up in the high court on Thursday and the hearinghas been deferred for November 23. The plea demands his release terming the arrest“bad in law”.It argues that ED initiated proceedings under the PMLA even as there is a stay from Supreme Court in the 2015 matter. The ED initiated these proceedings, in January when Khaira was vociferous on the issue of farm laws. Raids were conducted in March and even as matter was pending before high court, arrest was effected though he was summoned eleven times since raids, said his lawyer Vikram Chaudhri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-7-day-ed-remand-punjab-congress-leader-sukhpal-khaira-in-judicial-custody-101637233801404.html
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Experienced bliss, says Ashwani Sharma on return from Kartarpur||A 21-member jatha (group) of the Punjab BJP unit, led by state unit president Ashwani Kumar Sharma, visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib via the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in Pakistan on Thursday morning two hours before chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab Cabinet was scheduled to visit the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. “I experienced a different kind of bliss and calmness at the gurdwara. Delegation of the BJP has offered there a prayer for high spirit and prosperity of Punjab, apart from the wellbeing of all. We also did ardas for peace and brotherhood in the state, besides seeking our country getting prosperous and most powerful in the world,” Sharma said on his return.“Prime Minister Modi has provided us the opportunity of paying obeisance at the gurdwara by reopening this corridor after the pandemic eased. This corridor has been reopened in view of the devotion of the Sikh sangat (community),” he had said before leaving for the shrine, where Guru Nanak spent 17 years of his life. Replying to a query on the arrangements and treatment of officials on the Pakistan side, he said, “What a wonderful environment there was! It was full of tranquility. I would like to ask all to avail this opportunity to visit this pious place. I am sure anyone visiting this place will experience a positive energy there.”A visa-free access to the Sikh shrine was a long-pending demand of the Indian Sikh community. The corridor was opened in November 2019 to commemorate the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev. It was closed after four months when the Covid-19 pandemic reached India and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-jatha-leaves-for-pakistan-via-kartarpur-corridor-101637214360295.html
