20-11-2021||Mumbai||Swachh survey: Mumbai slips to 37th rank, Navi Mumbai 4th||Mumbai dropped two positions to rank 37th nationwide (out of 48 cities with a population of over 10 lakh) in the Central government’s Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey released on Thursday. Mumbai ranked second out of the thirteen cities that participated in the survey from the state. Navi Mumbai stood fourth in the list, a step down from last year’s third position. Mumbai topped the list of cities under the head of innovative ideas for waste management. In the population category of ‘less than one lakh’, Vita, Lonavala and Sasvad, all three places from Maharashtra, bagged the top three positions. The state has successfully bagged a total of 92 awards, the highest by any state in this year’s Survekshan, followed by Chhattisgarh with 67 awards, said the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in a statement. Among other cities in the state, Pune was in fifth place, followed by Thane at 14th, while Nashik and Pimpri Chinchwad were 17th and 19th on the list. Further down the list, Aurangabad ranked 22nd, Nagpur 23rd, Kalyan Dombivali 25th and Vasai-Virar 29th. For the fifth consecutive year, Indore was awarded the title of India’s Cleanest City under Swachh Survekshan. Surat and Vijayawada bagged the second and third spots respectively in the ‘more than 1 lakh population’ category. As per the final results, Mumbai scored 2,021 out of the total 6,000 marks. According to BMC officials, the overall rank may have slipped due to its poor representation as administrative priorities changed due to Covid-19 management. Sangeeta Hasnale, Deputy Municipal Commissioner of the BMC, said, “It is not like our rank has slipped, but when you look at Mumbai and its challenges with the number of population, you will understand. We think we could not properly represent ourselves as administrative priorities had changed drastically in the past few months due to Covid-19 management.” However, he added, “Our innovative ideas regarding waste management ranges from turning bio-waste into cooking gas, turning waste into energy for generating electricity etc. We have outperformed when it comes to coming up and implementing innovative ideas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/swachh-survey-mumbai-slips-to-37th-rank-navi-mumbai-4th-101637432848195.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Leopard attacks domestic help, forest guard in Dasna||A leopard, which was captured in a CCTV camera in Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar locality on early Wednesday morning, reportedly injured two people in Dasna on Saturday afternoon, said officials of the forest department. According to officials, the leopard is a 7ft long adult. Officials of the divisional forest department said they have brought in cages to trap the animal, one of which has been placed near Adhyatmik Nagar on the outskirts of Ghaziabad. “We are suspecting that it is the same leopard, which was captured in the CCTV camera of a house in Raj Nagar, which injured the two people in Dasna. Our teams had launched a search for the leopard.It came out in the open in Dasna on Saturday. As locals rushed to see the animal, it panicked and injured one person and one of our forest guards before it went into hiding again. The victims have sustained injuries on their hands, face and other body parts,”said Ashok Gupta, forest ranger, Ghaziabad. “The distance between the two locations (Raj Nagar and Adhyatmik Nagar) is about 8-10kms. We have roped in teams from Meerut and Ghaziabad, who have tranquilizer guns. We will try to capture the leopard in our cages as soon as possible as it might change its location at night,” said Gupta on late Saturday evening. The two injured were identified as Chandan Kumar (28), who works as a domestic help. He was working at a house in Dasna when the leopard entered and attacked him. He was immediately rushed to the hospital after the attack. The injured forest guard was identified as Sunil Rathi, who is recuperating at Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. “Rathi has been kept under observation and we have administered anti-rabies and immunoglobulins, besides providing other medication. He has sustained deep wounds on his forehead and shoulder,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital. Dasna, falling under the jurisdiction of Masuri police station area in Ghaziabad, is adjacent to national highway 9 and is surrounded by dense vegetation and open agricultural fields. Many people reside in Adhyatmik Nagar, Mayur Vihar, Akash Nagar and Dasna town among other neighbouring villages. The leopard sighting has sparked panic among the locals living in and around Dasna. “We were shocked to see the injured forest guard, who was bleeding and was rushed to the hospital. I saw the animal and how it attacked the forest guard. It then ran into a big house and attacked the domestic help there. Thereafter, it came out and went into hiding in the thick bushes,” said Jamuna Prasad, a local who was witness to the leopard attack. Charan Singh, another local, said he saw the animal entering a temple between 12 noon and 1pm. “All locals shut the doors of their house as we sounded an alert about the presence of the leopard. It was trying to find a safe hiding place and was shocked to see so many people. We have asked our neighbours to remain alert till the time the leopard is captured,” said Singh. Police said they have also advised residents to keep a watch and stay indoors especially at night. “The leopard injured two people and teams of the forest department were apprised about the development. Our teams will also help them as and when required,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Last year, a leopard was sighted in the official residence of vice-chairperson in Raj Nagar. A year later, in the same month, another leopard has emerged in the same locality, barely 500 metres away from the vice-chairperson’s official residence. Teams of the forest department had launched a week-long search but failed to locate the leopard, though it had found its pug marks. Leopard sightings not uncommon in Ghaziabad In December 2014, the carcass of a leopard was discovered from the stretches of Yamuna river in Pychara village in Loni, Ghaziabad. In the same month, another leopard was found dead in the fields of Abupur in Modi Nagar, Ghaziabad and was suspected to have died of electrocution. In April 2017, a male leopard was captured from Krishna Vihar Kuti area, close to Hindon airbase, but only after it injured two persons and a cattle.Besides these, an animal from the cat family, possibly a leopard, was also spotted in Vaishali’s Sector-3 on August 1, 2019. Last year, on December 17, a three-and-half year old male leopard was captured from the Hindon airbase and released into Saharanpur range by the forest department. According to officials, leopard is listed under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and included in Appendix I of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife Fauna and Flora). It is also listed as ‘near threatened’ on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-leopard-attacks-domestic-help-forest-guard-in-dasna-101637432667359.html
20-11-2021||Other||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation allowed cutting of 39k trees in 11 years||In 11 years, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has given permission for chopping down 38,899 trees in the city and transplanting 36,000, revealed data procured by Andheri MLA Ameet Satam from the BMC garden department.According to the figures between February 2010 to July 2021, a total of 38,899 trees were cut in the city and more than 50% of these were for the projects undertaken by private individuals or organisations. Whereas 36,117 trees were transplanted in the city.The data reveals that private parties got permission to cut off 21,253 trees and transplant 17,964 trees between 2010-21. The BMC got permission to cut 8,843 trees and transplant 10,075 trees. Further, for several metros, railway and government projects, permission was given to cut 8,803 trees and transplant 8,078 trees.Fuming over BMC allowing private parties to cut more than 20,000 trees in the last decade, in a letter to the state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, MLA Ameet Satam drew the comparison that the state government halted the construction of a car depot for Metro-3 in Aarey Colony where only 2,700 trees were to be cut but on the other hand, BMC has allowed private parties to cut more than 20,000 trees in the last decade.Satam shared, “What I fail to understand is how private parties were given permission to cut off so many trees. While the Metro car shed depot -which is meant to ease travel in the city has been stalled in the name of around 2,000 trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brihanmumbai-municipal-corporation-allowed-cutting-of-39k-trees-in-11-years-101637432607413.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Cleanliness survey 2021:Varanasi best Ganga town in country||VARANASI In the Union Ministry of Urban and Housing Development’s cleanliness survey 2021, Kashi has been ranked the best Ganga town in the country for excellent work in cleanliness at the ghats and along the river in the temple city and its surroundings.Varanasi had the first rank among 150 Ganga towns in the country, said public relation officer, Varanasi Nagar Nigam, Sandeep Srivastava. He said this was announced in a grand programme organized at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on Saturday. President Ramnath Kovid honoured UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, Varanasi mayor Mridula Jaiswal and municipal commissioner Pranay Singh with a citation and trophy, he added. Srivastava said that this survey was done in the Ganga towns with a population of more than one lakh, between November 2020 to February 2021. The survey took into account the following facts: garbage should not have been dumped anywhere near the ghats and on the banks of the river, it should not be floating anywhere in the river Ganga, ghats should be completely free of plastic and polybags and a message should be disseminated regarding keeping the ghats and surroundings clean. During the survey, keeping in view the above points, a team of the union ministry of urban development inspected the ghats and river Ganga to assess the status of cleanliness, said Srivastava and added that the Varanasi Nagar Nigam did excellent work on all the points. As a result, Varanasi got the first position in the Ganga Towns Survey 2021. Munger got second, Patna third, Kanpur fourth and Haridwar fifth position. Mayor Mridula Jaiswal said, “Receiving the award from the President is a matter of great pride for Kashi. I congratulate the people of Kashi and thank them for their cooperation in keeping the city and the ghats clean due to which Varanasi won this award. This award is a source of inspiration. Every effort will be made to provide better facilities to the citizens.” Municipal commissioner Pranay Singh said that Varanasi was a religious and mythological city and thousands of tourists and devotees visited it daily. They went to the ghats, watched Ganga aarti and enjoyed boat ride. He said that all 84 ghats were cleaned daily, four to five major ghats were washed twice daily and a separate sanitation team had been deployed for this work. ‘Arpan Kalash’ had been set up at every 50 metre at the ghats so that flowers and garlands which were offered by the devotees, could be collected and dropped in them. Proper lighting arrangement was also underway with installation of high mast lights on the ghats, he said. 4700 sanitation workers keep Varanasi clean City health officer of Varanasi Municipal Corporation NP Singh, said that 700 tonnes of garbage was generated in the city daily. It was disposed of by 4700 sanitation workers who went from door to door and collected it from houses and shops. The 20 garbage dumps built in the city were monitored by CCTV cameras. For garbage disposal, 231 vehicles were deployed, equipped with GPS. Dr Singh added that waste disposal was monitored from the command centre. The roads were cleaned with mechanized road cleaning machines. Apart from this, the cleanliness of 235 public and community toilets was also ensured daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cleanliness-survey-2021-varanasi-best-ganga-town-in-country-101637432487446.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Mohali records death after 17 days, 5 new cases in Chandigarh tricity||Mohali recorded a Covid-related fatality after 17 days on Saturday, as a 60-year-old woman from Khanpur, Kharar, succumbed at PGIMER. This took the toll of the district to 1,071. The last death in Mohali was reported on November 3 and before that, on October 4.In November, Mohali has reported three Covid-related fatalities, while no death has been reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula.Meanwhile, five fresh infections were reported from the tricity on Saturday, against the 18 cases on Friday. Three people tested positive in Mohali and two in Chandigarh. No new infections were reported from Panchkula.The tricity’s active cases tally stands at 85, with 46 patients still battling the disease in Mohali, 28 in Chandigarh and 11 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,400 cases, of which 64,552 patients have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, 68,908 cases have been recorded, of which 67,793 patients have recovered and 1,071 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,793 includes 30,403 recoveries and 379 casualties.Dengue: 37 new infections emergeA total of 37 fresh dengue cases were reported from the tricity on Saturday, with Chandigarh reporting 18 cases, followed by 14 infections in Mohali and only five in Panchkula.After a peak of dengue infections in October, the fresh cases are now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature, as the climate conditions are not suitable for aedes mosquitoes to breed. No death was reported from any of the three jurisdictions.This year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,746, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,354 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 848, with one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-mohali-records-death-after-17-days-5-new-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-101637432367269.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Going to the movies is a thing of the past||The period between 2019 and 2021 will be etched in the history of the world for rapid transformation and experimentation as the pandemic hit many commercial ventures, small and big businesses and employability. Cinema, catering, tourism and hospitality were the worst hit. Due to a complete ban on gatherings, going to watch movies in theatres seems to be a thing of past. However, such is human nature that we effortlessly and imperceptibly settle into new paradigms, accepting, absorbing, and digesting change, transition and shifts. The pandemic accelerated the change that was already in motion, albeit at snail’s pace. For instance, in their quest for survival, many Bollywood actors, directors, producers have shifted to OTT platforms. Smart televisions with channels such as Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime Video, Max Player, and Zee 5 have entered our mind’s space and time in a big way. Ensconced comfortably anywhere and everywhere, we watch numerous movies, serials, short movies and all kinds of entertainment, sometimes attentively,but most of the time half-heartedly like zombies. We have the option of leaving a film mid-way, to fast-forward the bits we find uninteresting, and to pause for a short break. Though, there are so many things around us, we are still lonely, floating in a vacuum. There is a kind of ennui that we are unable to escape as this unabetted entertainment does not touch us and does not match in any way the joy of watching movies in cinema halls. I still vividly recall the impact of Rajesh Khanna’s debut movie Akhri Khat (1966), which I saw in a cinema hall in Ludhiana. I was just five years old then, but the search of a 15-month-old child (that the director, Chetan Anand, let loose in the city, and followed him with his hand-held camera) for his dead mother made me cry so copiously that I refused to eat my favourite snack during the interval. The memory of the movie lingers strongly even after 55 years. Sadly, the incessant trickling of films, serials and entertainment has diffused the effect of movies for many. It is as if the excess of visuality that is making inroads in our lives circles around on the surface, giving short-lived sensations and effects. They do not make an everlasting impact. With a large number of movies releasing on OTT platforms, we forget the names of the film we saw the next day. There is no comparison to the joy we experience while watching a movie in theatres to the routine act of watching a movie at home or on smart TV. Going to see a movie with family and friends was so much more entertaining! Sitting cosily among strangers, and quietly observing all the norms of behaviour could also leave a much better impact. Covid has ruined one of the most favourite sources of entertainment and outing for many of us. Although, many actors, directors and producers have predicted that traditional cinema will revive and theatres and cinema halls will be buzzing with activity once again, I have my doubts. The joy of watching films in theatres may become history as most of us have gotten used to‘see from home’, and of course, it is economical too. I belong to that blessed generation of cinema-goers that fully cherish the nuances of a well-crafted movie and do justice to the art of filmmaking. In times to come, this phenomenon of going to the movies may well become extinct.sangeetahandadr@gmail.com(The writer is a Patiala-based retired principal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-going-to-the-movies-is-a-thing-of-the-past-101637432307179.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Three Reliance stores charging for carry bags fined||Acting on the complaints of 27 people, the district consumer disputes and redressal forum has directed the managers/in-charges of three Reliance retail stores in Mohali to refund money charged from them for carry bags. The forum has also ordered them to compensate each complainant to the tune of ₹500 and deposit ₹5,000 per complaint to the legal-aid account of the commission. In 2019, 10 complaints were filed against Reliance Retail Store in Phase 5, Mohali, and four against the Reliance Fresh in Sector 70 for charging money for carry bags. In 2020, 13 plaints were filed against Reliance Store in Bestech Square Mall, Sector 66. Forum president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said the complainants alleged that the store managers charged them for the carry bags in addition to the items purchased by them, which they had no right to do. However, they had no option, as it was difficult for them to carry the purchased items without a carry bag. In reply, the store managers termed the complaints as frivolous and false. They said that the complainants were charged only after taking their consent and that they were filed with mala fide intention and not maintainable. The forum president said that it is necessary for the stores to provide carry bag/paper bag free of charge to the complainants, as they are definitely a part and parcel of the sale from the money paid for the purchase of an article. The president directed the order be complied to within 30 days from the date of receipt of a certified copy of the order, failing which the complainants will be entitled to interest at 9% per annum on the compensation amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-three-reliance-stores-charging-for-carry-bags-fined-101637432127323.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad bags 18th position in Swachh Survekshan 2021||Ghaziabad bagged the 18th rank for cleanliness in the list of cleanest cities having a population between a million and 4,000,000 in the Swachh Suvekshan 2021, the results of which were announced on Saturday. During the previous Swachh Survekshan survey, the city ranked 19 while it secured the 13th rank in the cleanliness survey held in 2019. Officials said non-availability of land for setting up a landfill to process waste and lapses in solid waste management hampered the prospects of Ghaziabad in improving its rank in the cleanliness survey. On Saturday, President Ram Nath Kovind handed over awards to representatives of the cleanest cites of the country at the ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’ hosted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs as part of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. Indore in Madhya Pradesh emerged as the winner in the list of cleanest cities having a population between a million and 4,000,000. Overall, 48 cities from across the country competed under this category. In the survey, total 6,000 points are awarded to participating cities based on multiple criteria. Under the category of cities having a population ranging between a million and 4,000,000, Ghaziabad city scored 4,220.9 points, which is the second highest in Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow secured the top spot in UP in the same category with an overall score of 4,586.17 points. “The city secured All India Rank of 18 and also received two more awards. We received a 3-star rating for ‘garbage-free city’ (GFC) from the previous 1-star. We will strive for a 5-star rating in the next cleanliness survey,”said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. “The second award is a national award for ‘best big city in innovation and best practices.’ For this, we tried to eliminate all open solid waste dumping points across the city and also took the initiative of recycling plastic. We also took up initiatives for ‘dust-free’ Ghaziabad. We lost major points in the competition due to non-availability of landfill site. To achieve this, we are trying to decentralise our garbage processing facilities,” he added. In January, 2019, the Uttar Pradesh solid waste monitoring committee directed shutdown of the landfill site at Pratap Vihar, where garbage used to be processed. Since then, the city is facing a major issue in dumping and processing solid waste. According to official estimates, the city generates about 1,200 metric tonnes of waste every day, and there is a shortfall in processing about 700 metric tonnes of solid waste. “To overcome this, we are trying to initiate work at our waste to energy plant at Galand; the work is likely to start next year. We are also trying to plug the gap of a shortfall of about 300 vehicles, which are to be used for door-to-door collection of solid waste. Of this, 100 vehicles will arrive in the next 15 days. We have sent a proposal to the state administration to sanction ₹21 crore for procuring 224 more vehicles. Once these gaps are plugged, we hope our rank will improve,” said the civic chief. Currently, the city has 250 vehicles for door-to-door collection of solid waste collection, which operate in 100 residential wards. The first edition of the ‘Swachh Survekshan’ survey was launched in 2016, with 73 cities in the country participating in the event. This year, the number of participating countries went up to 4,320. A total of 6,000 points are awarded to participating cities on the basis of service level progress (segregated collection, processing and disposal and sustainable sanitation), certifications (GFC for star rating, ODF+/ODF++/Water+) and citizen’s voice (feedback engagement, experience, Swachhta App and innovation and best practices). Ghaziabad officials said the city already achieved an ODF++ ranking earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-bags-18th-position-in-swachh-survekshan-2021-101637431887121.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays| Enabling girls to soar high in life||The sight of a young girl on the street, impoverished by Fate but with a sparkle in her eye, never fails to move an empathetic onlooker. It is no fault of hers that she is compelled to beg and borrow her way through the initial years of life. Seldom has she entered the vaunted portals of an educational institution. Yet, with the internet-enabled flattening of the social curve, she dreams of the day when the world, or at least her township, will be at her feet.Many a disadvantaged girl aspires to be a fighter pilot, a police officer, a doctor or a badminton champion, but society and its ever-warped inequalities seldom allow her to give wings to her dreams. There are several insurmountable imponderables that she has to combat, scale and conquer before she can even come close to attaining her goals. The pandemic has further exacerbated the situation. Girl students across the world have been withdrawn from schools by parents from disadvantaged sections of society. The pandemic-induced feeling of despair has put paid to the ambitions of millions of youngsters and forced them to settle for lesser rungs on the ladder of success. Furthermore, even today, a very common practice across India is to get teenaged girls”married off” at the soonest possible. They then have to settle for pots and pans instead of pens and keyboards, as their lives roll on. Many other age-old customs still prevail as well, to the detriment of the levels at which women should be able to lead their lives.However, the Nehas, Bindiyas, Manpreets and Shalinis of India have the talent, determination and resolve within to bounce back and surge ahead in their careers. What they need is an eco-system which allows them to compete on merit and which does not stifle their aspirations in their nascent years. There are quite a few steps which need to be taken by our nation in order to facilitate their flight into the high skies. Am listing out some of them here. Am sure there are many more which thought-leaders can come up with. The key is to make them actually happen and to not allow them to remain topics of discussion alone.1.Educational upgrades: In order for girls (as well as boys) to truly learn what they need to in our schools and colleges, the levels of training of educators and basic infrastructure facilities, even washrooms, need a major upgrade. Easier said than done, but major prioritisation of budgets will ensure some headway at least.2.Entrepreneurial incentives: Women-led start-ups need a major boost since they find themselves clueless and penniless whenever they seek to commence operations. Mentorship workshops and subsidies will do the trick to some extent, provided they are meticulously monitored.3.Cottage Industries: Rural women folk are extremely adept at producing quality ethnic wear and food items which can be marketed across the land; if only concerned government agencies would diligently advise and assist them.4.Sports accelerators: Women sportspersons have displayed their prowess at international and even Olympic platforms in recent years. If the number of women sportspersons participating in competitions across formats, in all sports, were to be doubled or tripled, the ‘catchment’ of talented sportswomen would ensure that many more champions are produced.5.Societal fine tuning: Our top celebrities need to spend some more time and effort in promoting national causes like women empowerment instead of modelling for gizmos! A sustained awareness campaign through electronic and social media will enable true changes in mindsets that currently prevent girls from being educated to higher levels.Thousands of young Indian women have made a mark in the fields of defence, civil services, aviation, corporate careers, academics and sports over the past few decades. But to enable them to live fearlessly in order to pursue their passions freely, significantly more needs to be done.Why should a young girl have to hesitate while leaving her home for study or work because prying eyes won’t let her be herself? Once we allow our young women to simply be themselves and express themselves in every field of endeavour, even the sky will not be the limit for them!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-enabling-girls-to-soar-high-in-life-101637431827226.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | River of Letters: Punjabi poets footloose in Bodoland||Sufi poet Sultan Bahu had famously said ‘Dil dariya samundron doonge, Kaun dilan dian jaane’ (The heart’s river is deeper than the ocean, Who can grasp what lies embedded there). However, rivers too carry their own stories as they flow down from the mountains to the plains to finally immerse in the deep waters. The Gaurang River, which originates from Bhutan, passes by Kokrajhar Town and goes onto meet the Brahmaputra, has been witness to long years of suffering of the Bodos who live on its shores. These people of Sino-Tibetan origin, whose history goes back to 2500 BC, have been referred to as outsiders in myth and history as Malecha , Asura or Danava. Theirs’ was a long struggle against political and cultural aggression, until the Bodoland Territorial Regional Accord, was finally signed in January 2020. The Kokrajhar Literary Festival 2021, which was held from November 14 to 16 was dedicated to the poetry of peace and love. It celebrated around 100 languages of India with special emphasis on tribal speech, which still has no recognition.Journey from Punjab to KokrajharFor Punjabi poets, Paul Kaur and Jagdeep Sidhu, who went to this literary festival with a difference, it was a rare experience, which they shared with delight. Ambala’s own senior poet Paul, says “It came as a surprise in many ways. First of all, it was interesting that a political triumph was celebrated with poetry. One was not prepared to come face to face with tribal poets from languages that one had not even heard of. The spirit of the festival was amazing in its simplicity and sincerity.” Jagdeep, an ebullient younger poet of Mohali, says: “While the festival was organised by the Bodoland government, it was completely free of officialdom or the pomp and show that we are so used to in the North. The head of the now autonomous region, Pramod Boro, opened the festival in humility and camaraderie without the political pageantry that is found at most places.”The delight of diversityThe mood of this literary celebration was set by the invitation letter itself, which was penned to writers of so many languages, which have no official recognition along with some two dozen languages which have the constitutional recognition in India. It is a little known fact that over 600 languages are spoken in the country. Paul says, “It was indeed a journey of great learning for us as we came across poets who recited poems in languages we did not even know by name such as Nyishi, Sherdukpen, Tiwa, Magahi, Kodava, Jayantia, Toto and many others.” She adds that it was the diversity of cultures, languages and ethnicity that was so heartening as opposed to one-language, one-religion and one-way of living that we have been witness to in recent times.Academician Surath Nazrary, convener of the festival, spelled out that by celebrating the poetry of peace and love the Bodoland Territorial Council was sending a message of new Bodoland to the rest of the world. Boro, the son of a farmer who studied in his village school and went onto study economics in a Guwahati college, is now at the helm of affairs in the autonomous region in Assam. The slogan which Boro gave out at the festival spelled out the effort to heal a strife-torn people and land “It is time to change the weapon. Instead of taking AK-47 in hands, we should take up the arms of economic transformation.” Jagdeep says: “It was indeed a revelation to come face to face with the renowned professor Ganesh Devy who has been striving to save tribal languages from dying. He gave up his job to initiate work with Denotified and Nomadic Tribes and Adivasis and later conducted the largest-ever survey of languages in history with 3000 volunteers which was later published in 50 multilingual volumes”.Land made for you and meThe two Punjabi poets, who return charmed with the endeavour of language and literature from Kokrajhar, feel that the festival brought home the pride of the language a person is born to. Paul says, “Although translations of poems in English were a necessity to communicate across the vast array of languages that were represented at the festival yet in all the readings the poets first read out their poems in the original adding to the rich linguistic tapestry woven on the banks of the Gaurang”. She adds even the television crews chose that poems be recorded in the original and not in translation: “They said they would stream the original to do justice to the rhythms of poetry in diverse languages.” Truly it is this diversity of languages, cultures and religions in which lies the deliverance of the Indian sub-continent and what comes to the mind is an inclusive rearmament song sung in the school days of the 70s: “From Indian Ocean to the Kashmir Highland, From Brahmaputra to the Bombay Island, This land was made for you and me!”Caption: Kokrajhar Literary Festival: Punjabi poets Paul Kaur and Jagdeep Sidhu with Assamese poet Tulika Chetia Yein and Rajasthani tribal poet Hira Meena (L to R) and Gaurang River adorned by letters. Photos sourced||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-river-of-letters-punjabi-poets-footloose-in-bodoland-101637431588431.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||19-yr-old Gurdaspur body builder holds two world records||Setting an example for the youth of Punjab, a Gurdaspur teen has achieved the feat of becoming a body builder without setting foot in a gymnasium and has set two world records. Kuwar Amritbir Singh, who grew up in Umarwala, a village in Gurdaspur district, says he was always fascinated by the legendary body builders and wrestlers of the state. Amritbir, 19 already holds two world records and has two reality shows to his credit. As per the India book of records, he holds the record for being the youngest body builder to perform the highest number of knuckle pushups in a minute and the record of performing the most knuckle pushups in 30 seconds at the age of 17, and 18, respectively. “I have never gone to a gym or fitness centre. I started body building at the age of 15. Inspired by biographies of people like Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Udham Singh, and Dara Singh, I realised that none of these heroes had a gym or a trainer, they all worked hard and trained themselves, so I decided to hone my craft through home made equipment, desi workouts and diet,” says Amritbir, who uses bricks, cement, iron rods, plastic bottles, tires, and tubes to workout on his terrace. “Punjab has had many wrestling and body building heroes, sadly now people associate the state with drugs and gangs. I want to change this perception,” he says. Speaking about his journey, he said, “Family support was not that great in the beginning, but when they saw my passion and consistency, they began to support my dream. I did not have a trainer, so I created my own routine with the help of YouTube videos.”After facing a minor setback in Class 12 , Amritbir says he has learnt to balance fitness training and studies. “Initially, it was tough to find the right balance between the two. My family was also worried about my future. Now, it is going well. I am pursuing my bachelor’s degree and have also participated in two reality television shows,” he added.The teenager hopes become an inspiration for the youth of Punjab and also become the first Punjabi action hero.“I have always wanted to make my mother and father proud, but now I feel it is more about my motherland, Punjab, proud,” he says. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yrold-gurdaspur-body-builder-holds-two-world-records-101637431347246.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Air quality to improve in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad after over a fortnight||The air quality index in the three cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday, but on the basis of forecast, officials said that the conditions are likely to improve as strong winds may arrive by November 21, said officials.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida recorded the air quality index (AQI) on Saturday at 344, 322 and 356.“Forecasts indicate that the wind speed will pick up from November 21, which will help in speedy disposal of trapped pollutants. This will improve the AQI. As of now, the daytime AQI of monitoring stations is better than the night timings when the wind speed slows down further,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPCPCB).An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.According to the forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the situation is likely to improve as the percentage share of stubble burning incidents have reduced considerably and the north-westerly winds, resulting in the slowing down of the impact.“From November 21 to 23, surface winds are likely to be strong, resulting in effective dispersion which improves air quality. Transport level winds coming from northwest direction are likely to be strong from November 21 to 23, flushing out locally emitted pollutants from Delhi to the southeast region that is expected to improve the air quality further to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ or ‘poor’ category in Delhi. The contribution of farm fires (752) to Delhi’s PM2.5 is negligible,” the Safar forecast added.The three cities have been experiencing ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ pollution conditions since October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-to-improve-in-noida-greater-noida-ghaziabad-after-over-a-fortnight-101637430987193.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Placement agency staffer arrested for assisting domestic help in theft||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Friday for allegedly assisting a domestic help in stealing valuables from a flat in Noida where she worked for about four months, police said. Police identified the suspect as Dinesh Sunar, a native of West Bengal who worked at a “fictitious” placement agency in Delhi.Sudhir Kumar, station house officer of Sector 24 police station, said that a case was registered against the 35-year-old domestic help, Duma Chettri, on November 10 this year on the basis of a complaint filed by Sapna Jain, a resident of Shatabdi Vihar in Noida’s Sector 52. In the complaint, Jain said that on June 23 this year she had contacted a placement agency in Delhi’s Vasant Kunj through phone and hired Chettri, a native of Jalpaiguri in West Bengal. Chettri worked there for about four months and quit the job on October 14, police said. According to police, the complainant said that after a few days she found that some valuables, including a gold ring, a gold necklace, and a pair of diamond earrings, were missing from her flat. “I tried to contact her several times but she did not receive the calls. I then filed a police complaint,” she said. Police said that the value of stolen items are yet to be ascertained.The SHO said that police investigated the matter and found that a person named Sanjay Kumar was running the fictitious placement agency in Delhi. “Sunar worked at the placement agency and facilitated the placement of maids. On Friday, Sunar reached Noida’s Sector 52 to meet someone when he was arrested,” he said. Police said that the names of Sanjay and Sunar were added on Friday to the FIR registered under Section 381 (burglary) of IPC. “We have launched a search for the domestic help and Sanjay, who are at large. Sunar was produced in court that sent him to judicial custody,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-placement-agency-staffer-arrested-for-assisting-domestic-help-in-theft-101637430928205.html
20-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Four more held for firing at former sarpanch’s house||The district police on Friday arrested four more persons in connection with the firing at the house of former sarpanch (village head) of Manesar’s Kasan village on Diwali. In the shooting incident, six persons sustained bullet injuries, of which four have died so far. The arrested suspects were identified as Abhishek Saroha alias Tara Bawana from Delhi, Sanjeev alias Sanju Baba from Rohtak, Sahil alias Bheem and Vikash alias Kala, both from Sonipat. They were arrested from Farukhnagar, police said. With this, 12 persons, including three juveniles, have been apprehended in the case. However, the prime suspect, Yogender alias Rinku, is still at large, police said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the persons who have been arrested so far include shooters and those who had provided shelter to the prime suspect. Balram, son of former sarpanch Gopal, also died in the incident. A case was registered against 10 persons on November 5.“The juveniles had conducted a survey of the victim’s house and its surroundings. Rinku had created Snapchat IDs to communicate and plan for the shooting,” Sangwan said, adding that the shooting was executed to avenge a murder of 2007 when Balram’s family had allegedly killed Rinku’s brother on Holi. According to police, on Diwali night, Rinku, along with Amit, Abhishek, Manish Keru, Sanjiv and Sahil, barged into Balram’s house in Kasan village and started firing indiscriminately, in which six persons were critically injured. Two days after the crime, police arrested three persons from Manesar on November 6. The suspects were identified as Rinku’s father Subhash Singh from Kasan village, Gopal from Jaipur and David alias Satish from Kasan village. David is Rinku’s cousin while Gopal is Rinku’s brother-in-law, police said. On November 13, police apprehended three juveniles accused of carrying survey of the victim’s house. Two of the juveniles are Rinku’s cousins, police said. Sangwan said that Abhishek Saroha, who was arrested on Friday, has two dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder and loot registered against him. Abhishek got in touch with Rinku around 10 months back. On October 30, Rinku called Abhishek through a Telegram application and told him that this is right time to avenge the murder of his brother, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-four-more-held-for-firing-at-former-sarpanch-s-house-101637430927124.html
20-11-2021||Noida||1 killed, another injured as milk van hits divider at Noida Sector 18 underpass||A 21-year-old man died, and a milk van driver was severely injured when their vehicle lost balance and hit the divider near Sector 18 underpass at 2am on Saturday.The victim -- Narendra Kumar -- was a native of Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh. The injured driver -- Bhudev (goes by first name), 35 -- also a resident of Sambhal, is undergoing treatment.Munish Chauhan, station house officer (SHO), Sector 20 police station, said the accident took place early Saturday morning. The driver and the helper were travelling by the milk van from Sector 30 to Sector 18 for a delivery.“The driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the divider at the entrance of the underpass. The impact was high and the vehicle’s cabin was mangled, and the two victims trapped. Some passersby informed the police, and a team of officials from the Sector 20 police station reached the spot,” Chauhan said.Police said that the vehicle was damaged in such a way that a hydraulic cutter was brought to cut the mangled vehicle and rescue the victims. “The rescue process took around one hour, and the two victims were rushed to the district hospital, where Kumar was declared brought dead. Police said Bhudev has also suffered severe injuries and was referred to another hospital in Delhi for better medical care,” Chauhan added.It is not clear what led to the accident as one died and the other one was not in a position to talk about the accident due to injury, police said. Later, the milk company sent another truck and unloaded goods from the damaged vehicle.The accident had also halted traffic movement on the road. Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that a traffic police team later reached the spot and removed the damaged vehicle.Chauhan said that police have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1-killed-another-injured-as-milk-van-hits-divider-at-noida-sector-18-underpass-101637430446994.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Noida climbs the ‘Swachhta’ ladder, ranks no 4 in cleanliness survey||Noida bagged the fourth spot in the list of cleanest cities having a population between a 100,000 and a million in the Swachh Survekshan 2021--the annual cleanliness survey conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), in coordination with the Quality Council of India, under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U). The results of the survey were announced on Saturday.This is a significant improvement from last year when the city bagged the 25th position. The city was adjudged 150 in 2019 and it secured the 324th rank in 2018. As many as 4,320 cities took part in the cleanliness survey, of which 342 cities were conferred with some star rating. In a statement issued earlier, MoHUA said the sixth edition of the Swachh Survekshan survey has become the “world’s largest urban cleanliness survey.”The city has received a 5-star in a survey on garbage free cities (GFC). Earlier, in June 2020, Noida got a 3-star rating in the same category. A 7-star is the highest rating conferred to a city with the best waste management practices. However, no city has achieved the 7-star rating so far, said officials. “It is a significant improvement for the city. We took multiple measures to improve the cleanliness of the city-- from door-to-door waste collection to segregation and then remediation of waste. We have taken care of the legacy waste and also developed the mechanism to handle the daily waste produced in the city,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of the Noida authority. In the last three years, 300 new toilets have been constructed in the slums of the city. Pink restrooms for women and dedicated restrooms for transgenders have been put in place to discourage open defecation, said officials. The authority attributed the improvement in the Swachh survey index to the work it has done on all fronts, especially setting up treatment plants for treating construction and demolition waste. It has got at least 50 small and big drains, which get choked with filth and plastic waste.“We have a huge challenge in keeping Noida clean since there are many new industries here and there is a lot of activity happening in the real estate sector, which produces a lot of construction waste. We set up a plant in Sector 80 to collect the waste from source and recycle the same at the plant. We installed bamboo net in drains to trap the plastic waste and make sure the treated water flows into drains,” said Maheshwari.Noida has around 165 sectors and 65 villages, which produce 900 metric tonne of waste daily. From 2018, the Noida authority started collecting door-to-door waste with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines, which help crush waste for its easy transportation. Nearly 69 community toilets, 150 public toilets, 16 pink toilets and 119 urinals were built by the authority in the city in the last three years to discourage people from defecating in the open, said officials. It distributed 21,000 home composting kits, installed 3,000 dustbins at different sites, and focused on reducing, reusing, and recycling waste. A bio-remediation plant spread over 20,000 hectares was also set up at Mubarakpur in Sector 145 to treat waste. “We are happy that Noida received the top rank in this survey but it needs to work on many fronts such as water conservation, cleaning of drains and improve treatment of the waste water going into the drains,” said N P Singh, president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-climbs-the-swachhta-ladder-ranks-no-4-in-cleanliness-survey-101637430387030.html
20-11-2021||Other||Three ahatas shut for illegal operations in Gurugram||In a joint raid of the chief minister ’s flying squad and the excise department late Friday night, three ahatas (drinking places) running illegally beyond permissible timings, which were also serving flavoured hookah, were seized, police said on Saturday.Officials have sent the recovered liquid flavours and hookahs to a laboratory for testing.Police and excise officers had been receiving complaints for the past few months, and a special police team was formed to raid ahatas in sectors 56, 65, and Badshahpur.Pawan Kumar, the owner of Refill Ahata, has been booked, said the police officials on Saturday. Aakash Kumar and Deepak, the CEO and the owner of Tripplers in Sector 72, respectively, were also booked on Friday night for the same violation. In another place Western village-A Garden Café in Sector 62 more than 15 people were found drinking liquor and consuming hookah.Deputy superintendent of police (crime) Inderjeet Yadav said that people were found partying at all these three places at night, and they had advertised about those on social media for bookings. “Three of the places were serving hookah and liquor despite the ban. More than 15 people were present at each place,” Yadav said.VK Beniwal, deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (East), said that they have started a crackdown on ahatas which have been illegally serving alcohol and hookah in the city. As part of the crackdown, the raid was conducted on Friday night and those people were arrested. Some of the suspects fled from the spot seeing the police teams, but have been identified,” Beniwal said.“The suspects had even called DJ to perform and took bookings for the event. We have formed teams and we are conducting surprise checks across the city to check if people are operating illegally and also serving hookah, which is banned,” he said.Police said that the owners did not have requisite licences from the excise department to serve alcohol and hookah. Consignments of liquor and hookahs were seized from their possession, said the police.Three cases under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 120 (conspiracy), and sections 4 and 6 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, and Section 72-C of the Punjab Excise Act were registered against the suspects at Badshahpur and Sector 65 police stations on Saturday morning, according to the police.Police said that until 2016, hookahs were served with tobacco molasses, which were banned by the Punjab and Haryana high court.Yadav said that they will continue to crack down on similar establishments serving hookahs.In February 2017, the district administration had enforced Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to ban hookah bars in the city. The move came with a view to make the city nicotine-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-ahatas-shut-for-illegal-operations-in-gurugram-101637430087227.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Lucknow among garbage-free cities||Lucknow bagged awards in “best state capital in citizen feedback” and “garbage-free cities” (for cities with over 10 lakh population) categories in Swachh Survekshan 2021 the awards for which were given away at “Swachh Amrit Mahotsav” held in New Delhi on Saturday. The awards were received by Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. Also, Uttar Pradesh’s overall ranking was sixth, one up from the previous year’s ranking, “Despite facing difficulties during the pandemic, our staff worked hard and I congratulate them on this achievement,” said Bhatia. Swachh Survekshan is an annual survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities and towns across India. In all, 18 UP cities, including Varanasi, Meerut, Noida and Ghaziabad, won awards in different categories. Awards were given away to respective mayors and other officials of respective cities by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Union minister of state Kaushal Kishore.Meerut got the “fastest moving big city” award in the 10 to 40 lakh population category, while Ghaziabad got the “best big city innovation and best practices” award. Noida got the “India’s cleanest medium city” award in 3 to 10 lakh population category.Hapur got the “best city in maximum citizen participation” award in over one lakh population category while Patiyali town in Kasganj got the “best city in maximum citizen participation” award under less than one lakh population category.Meerut Cantonment got “India’s cleanest cantonment” award in one lakh population category while Varanasi Cantonment got the “best cantonment in citizen feedback” award in over one lakh population category.Hasanpur got the “fastest mover city” in 50,000 to one lakh population category while Awagarh got “best city in citizen feedback” award in 25,000 population category and the same award went to Gajraula in 50,000 to 1.5 lakh population category. Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Noida, Jhansi also got the “garbage-free city” award in different population categories.Last year, Lucknow had secured 12th position out of 470 cities of the country which were nominated and it had also topped as the cleanest city of the state. In 2019, Lucknow stood at a poor 121st place. In 2018, the state capital was placed at 115th rank while in 2017 its place was 269.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-lucknow-among-garbage-free-cities-101637429847059.html
20-11-2021||Other||Gurugram achieves highest ever ranking in Swachh Survekshan||The city secured a ranking of 24 in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 -- its highest ever ranking since the central government’s survey commenced in 2015 -- in the category of cities with a population between 100,000 and a million. A total of 425 cities in the category were covered in the annual survey this year, the results of which were announced on Saturday.Gurugram scored 4201.19 points out of 6,000 in the 2021 survey. Its score was also the highest in Haryana. With a score of 3821.52, Rohtak has the second-highest rating in the state and finished with a rank of 49 in the same category of cities.Gurugram ranked 62 last year in the cleanliness survey, while the city’s last best performance was in 2016 when it got a ranking of 36.The cleanliness survey this year looked at three broad parameters – citizens’ feedback, service level progress in terms of provision of services to citizens, and certifications. Of the 6,000 points, 2,400 were reserved for the service level progress category, and 1,800 points each were for the citizens’ voice and certifications categories, respectively.In the citizens’ voice category, Gurugram had a score of 1410.51, while it got 1690.68 in service level progress and 1,100 in the certification categories.In an official release issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), mayor Madhu Azad and MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja jointly attributed the better performance in the survey to the cooperation and contribution of the citizens.“The mayor and commissioner said that Gurugram will perform even better in the Swachh Survekshan 2022. All citizens should keep giving their cooperation this way and always segregate their waste and not spread garbage. They should throw waste only in the garbage pickup vehicle, adopt home composting and follow the three principles of waste reduce, reuse and recycle,” said the release.The city also bagged a three-star rating in the ‘Garbage Free City’ (GFC) category. Under the GFC category, a city is ranked out of seven stars depending on the efficiency of its waste management system and its resources. There are 25 key parameters on which each city is assessed, such as door-to-door collection of waste, sweeping, storage bins, plastic ban, and C&D waste collection.Overall, nine cities in the country got a five-star rating in the GFC category, 143 received three-star, and 147 got one-star rating.However, Vaishali Rana, a Gurugram-based environmentalist, was critical of the city’s performance in the annual cleanliness survey. “Every sector and municipal ward has a mini landfill in Gurugram. The MCG is yet to find an alternative site for dumping the waste. Segregation is practically negligible. On ground, there has been little to no change compared to last year,” said Rana.On November 15 when it was confirmed that Gurugram will get a GFC rating in the 2021 survey, the MCG in its official release had attributed introduction of zero-waste days, special campaigns to prevent usage of polythene and plastic, and introduction of cloth bag banks as the factors for the city’s betterment in waste management.In December last year, the civic body had introduced zero-waste day where once a week only wet waste was lifted from households so that segregation of waste can be inculcated among residents of the city. Starting November 11 this year, the corporation has made it mandatory for residents to segregate garbage into dry and wet waste. The MCG also announced a penalty as high as ₹25,000 against the use of plastic or polythene in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-achieves-highest-ever-ranking-in-swachh-survekshan-101637429306976.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||After two day wait, Nigerian held from outside Bengaluru ATM for cyber fraud||HT CorrespondentAfter waiting in turns for over two days outside an ATM in Bengaluru’s Banaswadi area, a Delhi Police team arrested a Nigerian national for allegedly transferring money from the accounts of people after remotely taking control of their phones using dubious links sent to the mobiles.Police said they had been tracking the suspect, identified as Nigerian national Okwudiri Paschal (40), who had been withdrawing the looted money from the specific ATM in Banaswadi.Delhi Police officials said they were put on Paschal’s trail after a Delhi resident claimed that he lost money on November 2 after he clicked on a link sent to him from an unknown number. The man had then approached the Tilak Marg police station in Delhi, after which police registered a case on November 5 and traced the details of the bank account where the money was moved to.Investigators checked the withdrawal from the bank account and found that a man in Bengaluru had been withdrawig the cash at an ATM. Before leaving for Bengaluru, the five-member team also got photographs of the possible suspect from the ATM camera.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said that this was the first case in which a Delhi police team laid a trap outside the Bengaluru ATM and caught the suspect red handed.“While investigating the case, we found out that as soon as any victim transferred the amount in the bank, the same was being withdrawn. On November 16, two teams of Delhi police laid a trap outside the Meenaat Federal Bank of Banaswadi bank in Bengaluru and spotted Paschal red handed. He was withdrawing ₹20,000 from the ATM,” said Paschal.DCP Yadav said that Paschal sensed police had spotted him and tried to flee. “While trying to flee, he collided with a scooter, which also fell down. The Delhi Police team arrested the accused from the spot. Seven other ATM cards, numerous SIM Cards, and four mobile phones were also recovered from his possession. We have brought him to Delhi on transit remand,” he added.A city court on Friday sent Paschal to police custody for eight days. Police said they are trying to identify the other members of Paschal’s gang.In the last few months, Delhi police have come across several cases of cyber criminals using malware to hack the phones of the victims. The Delhi police cyber cell regularly issues advisories urging citizens not to click on links from unknown people or groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-two-day-wait-nigerian-held-from-outside-bengaluru-atm-for-cyber-fraud-101637428586833.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Aligarh admn moots ‘no vaccine no ration’ to speed up inoculation drive||Swinging into action to promote inoculation drive after a Covid positive case surfaced in Aligarh after a long gap on Thursday night, the district administration has decided to act on the idea of “no vaccination, no ration”. Besides, it is also arranging inoculation facility at ration distribution centres for its over six lakh ration cardholders in the district. “There is a need for some effective measures to revive interest in vaccination drive as Covid-19 is not over yet. Those holding ration cards will be required to get vaccinated and non vaccination of any of the family member will disqualify the card holder from getting ration,” said district magistrate of Aligarh Selva Kumari J. The DM said “Those reaching the ration shops will have facility for vaccination there itself. The idea is not to disallow ration to anyone but it is mainly for the safety and health of customers. Those coming for ration will be required to provide proper and satisfactory reply when asked to show the vaccination certificate.” There are 6 lakh ration card holders in district and it will enable the district administration to reach out to a large number of people who for some reasons are shying away from the mandatory vaccination drive, said Selva Kumari J. The administration has also planned to station an Anganwadi staff at each ration distribution centre in Aligarh for the vaccine drive. “Those who have not got vaccinated yet will be asked to carry their Aadhaar card and get vaccinated at the ration distribution centres,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aligarh-admn-moots-no-vaccine-no-ration-to-speed-up-inoculation-drive-101637427330856.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two-day relief for Uphaar case tampering convict to attend family function||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Saturday suspended for two days the sentence awarded to a former court staff -- convicted for tampering with evidence in the main case of the Uphaar fire tragedy, which claimed 59 lives and left many injured -- allowing him to attend his niece’s engagement “on humanitarian grounds”.Additional sessions judge Anil Antil passed the order after the Investigating officer (IO) and additional public prosecutor AT Ansari did not oppose the request by the former court staffer Dinesh Chand Sharma.Sharma was convicted for tampering with evidence in the main case by a city court on October 8, following which he was awarded seven years imprisonment and a fine of ₹3 lakh on November 8. The court had also convicted real estate barons Sushil Ansal and Gopal Ansal for tampering with evidence and imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on them. Pointing out that his elder brother and father died recently, Sharma, through his counsel, on Saturday said that there is no elderly male member in the family to make arrangements for the engagement on November 21.Recording that the release has not been objected, the court granted Sharma interim bail on a personal bond of ₹50,000 and directed him to surrender before the jail superintendent at 5pm on November 22.While awarding the sentence on November 8, the court had said that the regrets and remorse offered by the convicts are “hollow and their aim is to only escape the punishment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwoday-relief-for-uphaar-case-tampering-convict-to-attend-family-function-101637426788053.html
20-11-2021||Other||Govt plans to build 220 airports in country to improve air connectivity: VK Singh||Union minister General (retired) VK Singh on Saturday said the Centre was planning to make 220 airports in the country to improve air connectivity.He was speaking after inaugurating 5-day long Kapilvastu Mahotsav in Sidhdharthangar. Health minister Jai Pratap Singh, basic education minister Dr Satish Dwivedi, MP Jagdambika Pal were also present on the occasion.While talking to reporters Singh said “The government is working with a goal to connect every nook and corner with roads and improve air connectivity as well. For this, it is planning to make 220 airports in the country. Something will be certainly made here, if land is available in Siddharthnagar.”The minister of state for road transport & highways and civil aviation said with improve connectivity more people will come to Buddhist circuit and subsequently more development will take place. “Change has taken place in Kushinagar and change has started taking place in Siddharthnagar as well,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently inaugurated an international airport in Kushinagar, giving a major boost to Buddhist tourism circuit. He also said events like Kapilvastu Mahotsav were necessary to increase the popularity of local culture and also appreciated the organisation of Khel Mahotsav.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated Khel Mahotsav in small districts of the country to bring forward talents from villages and small cities. In Army, it is said a good sportsperson is well disciplined,” the former Army chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-plans-to-build-220-airports-in-country-to-improve-air-connectivity-vk-singh-101637426786826.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane Zilla Parishad teachers from Bhiwandi persuade rural school drop outs to return to classes||Since July 2021, 40-year-old Thane Zilla Parishad (ZP) school teacher Shankar Patil has being travelling more than 40km each day from his house in Bhiwandi city to Thane’s remote rural areas for one reason alone: to convince students that had dropped out of school during the pandemic to return to the classroom.Most of the hamlets are on hillocks or in remote locations where buses or other public vehicles cannot travel. Most buses drop two to three kilometres away from the villages, thus Patil used his own two-wheeler to commute.Until the end of October, Patil found 100 children out of school and convinced them to enrol in the nearest ZP school with the help of fellow teachers. Despite Patil’s weak financial situation and ailing family members, he never faltered as his mission was only to ensure no child stays devoid of education.Like Patil, close to 100 other school teachers from ZP schools visited more than 150 brick kilns and thousands of families in the district’s tribal areas, construction sites and labour camps, and managed to enrol 319 children in three months. These students – children of migrant workers that had returned to their hometowns during the pandemic – had no access to school for over a year. Some also stay in the district’s hills, making it even tougher to access.With schools reopening on November 22, getting them back into the classrooms quickly was important. Anil Kurhade, district coordinator of inclusive education and acting district coordinator for ZP education, Thane, said, “As soon as we realised that schools are set to reopen, we told teachers to coordinate with them. We began looking for these 323 children four months ago. It was not easy, considering most teachers were also busy with the vaccination programmes and other Covid-related activities.”Patil added, “With schools closed, the teachers were helping the government to conduct door-to-door surveys to identify people with symptoms or check how many people are vaccinated. A few also went door-to-door in remote areas to create awareness to get vaccinated. They were busy for the entire day with these activities.”Thane district has a tribal population of over 1.5 million and there are 1,131 schools with 85,000 students in the ZP jurisdiction. As per ZP records, 323 students had dropped out of school during the pandemic from various rural belts. While the teachers have managed to trace 319 students, four are still to be found.Kurhade added, “There are still four more who are not yet traced and have migrated out of the district, as per our information. This is a continuous process as there will be more who will settle in the district in the future and we will ensure they do not remain devoid of education.”Out of those enrolled back in schools, 47 children are from Shahpur, 65 from Ambernath, 11 from Kalyan Rural, 154 from Bhiwandi and 46 from Murbad. They are between Grades 5 and 10.The state education board had permitted schools to adopt the online teaching mode. However, children from tribal or rural areas could not afford mobile phones. Most of the migrant working population had left town. Consequently, many children quit education and helped their parents to earn their livelihood. Most would sell vegetables, fruits or even help in farming. Besides, for most parents, education was never a priority.Sangita Jadhav, a social worker from Murbad, said, “It is a common phenomenon that students leave school midway depending where their parents’ livelihood takes them. The children remain uneducated as repeated breaks in their study patterns leave them without focus on studies. For parents, education is not the priority. Rather, feeding all mouths in their family is.”A few enthusiastic teachers like Patil suggested that they could get details of the students during their home visits for Covid surveys.Kurhade added, “As and when possible, our teachers started visiting families, labour camps, brick kilns and tribal settlements. They had to show the students some innovative projects, get them involved in some group activities to bring their interest back to studies.” It was during these visits that teachers realised that hundreds of children had migrated and were not traceable. “In some cases, we realised that there were a few children who continued to study regularly. We met an 11-year-old boy who regularly wrote his thoughts on a blackboard outside his school gate. He continued to do so diligently through the pandemic. When the blackboard stopped getting updated, we realised that the child had migrated along with his family. Some of our teachers managed to trace the boy and enrolled him back in school.”Patil said, “Bhiwandi teachers decided to spend money from their own pockets and look for children who are out of school. It was tough to convince those above 12 years. Some of them had been involved in anti-social activities, while many others had formed their own strong opinions. Some thought they would have to enrol in lower classes as they lost two academic years and were thus unwilling. We started conducting small sessions with these students to involve them in the learning process and we provided parents some financial help. Mid-day meals and access to computers and other devices at school were other attractions to get them back to school.”Patil said he came across a family with three children – two girls and a teenage boy. Of these, the girls were enthusiastic to return to school but the 14-year-old boy was disinterested. “As a result, the family discontinued the studies of the girls as well. Similarly, in another village, there was a girl who had to look after her toddler sibling while the parents were at the brick kilns. Hence, we suggested making provisions for a creche near the brick kiln itself. This is when they agreed to send their eldest child to school,” Patil added. Nilam Pisal, 33, a ZP block coordinator, visited up to 12 villages in Thane and Bhiwandi. When she reached Vadavli village in Bhiwandi, she saw many students aged barely seven working with their parents. No one would speak to her. She said, “There were 18 such children in Vadavli. The parents usually earned separate daily wages for the work done by these children, so they were not ready to talk. Despite several failed attempts, I stayed put for over three hours in that village. One parent told me my wait was futile as the parents won’t be able to make ends meet if children stopped working.”Pisal was persistent, though. She told them that they would get mid-day meals, fruits and chikkis at school. “This also did not deter them. So I told them to give me their children’s responsibility for two hours in the morning, after which they can help the parents. After much persuasion, they agreed and we were able to enrol all 18 to school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-zilla-parishad-teachers-from-bhiwandi-persuade-rural-school-drop-outs-to-return-to-classes-101637425466984.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Farmers in Maharashtra won’t celebrate, rally in Mumbai on Nov 28||Farmers’ organisations in Maharashtra said on Saturday that they will not celebrate the Centre’s decision to repeal the three controversial farm laws as tribute to the 700 farmers who lost their lives during the year-long protest. They plan to bring the ashes of the farmers who died in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh) incident to Mumbai, and hold a rally of 50,000 farmers before immersing the ashes in the Arabian Sea on November 28. Eight people had died in Lakhimpur Kheri when a speeding sports utility vehicle – allegedly driven Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish – rammed into a group of farmers returning after a protest against UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit. On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced in a nationally televised speech that the three contentious farm laws, against which farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi for over a year, will be repealed in the forthcoming session of Parliament. To mark what it termed as a farmers’ victory, Congress celebrated ‘Kisan Vijay Diwas’ on Saturday. It also directed party leaders to meet with the families of farmers that lost their lives during the protest in the last one year. Meanwhile, Ajit Nawale, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) said on Saturday that his outfit will not celebrate the repeal announcement. ABKS is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of 40 farmers’ organisations from across the country formed in November 2020 in response to three farm laws passed the same year. “There is no call from Samyukt Kisan Morcha to celebrate the day as 700 families of the farmers are grieving,” Nawale said. “For us, this is not a proper time to celebrate because the fight is not over yet. Until the farm laws are repealed in Parliament, we will continue to agitate. We don’t trust the BJP-led Central government. They are capable of doing anything.” The three laws – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act – were given assent by President Ram Nath Kovind on September 27, 2020 just days after both houses of Parliament passed them unanimously. On January 12, 2021, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the farm laws and appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances. Nawale said, “To create awareness among farmers about the treatment meted out by the Centre and to remember the cause for which hundreds of farmers sacrificed their lives, we have brought ashes of the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri and started taking them to all the districts as part of our campaign. The campaign will culminate in Mumbai in the form of a rally on November 28 in which prominent farmer leaders such as Rakesh Tikait will participate. The ashes will also be immersed in the Arabian Sea in Mumbai the same day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-in-maharashtra-won-t-celebrate-rally-in-mumbai-on-nov-28-101637425046507.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Internal security discussed as PM Modi attends conference of DGPs in Lucknow||Deliberations on internal security, cyber crime and counter-terrorism were held as Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the all India conference of directors general of police (DGPs) and inspectors general of police (IGPs) at the Uttar Pradesh Police Headquarters in Lucknow on Saturday. He sat through the discussions for several hours. Union home minister Amit Shah was also present.Senior government officials said PM Modi will also participate in the conference of DGPs on Sunday.They, however, remained tight-lipped over the proceedings at the conference.The Intelligence Bureau, which is the organiser of the conference, allowed restricted entry to select government officials only.The area around the state police headquarters remained under tight vigil during the PM’s stay all through the day.The conference is being held in hybrid format for the first time. The DGPs of states and other police organisations attended the conference physically here, while the remaining invitees participated virtually from 37 different locations across the country.Since 2014, the prime minister has taken a keen interest in the conference of DGPs/IGs and attended such meets.Earlier on Friday, Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurated the conference. He appreciated the role played by security forces during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and the sacrifices made by them during the same period.In his address, he laid stress on better coordination between the state police and other central agencies. He also urged the delegates for timely implementations of suggestions discussed during the conference. He emphasised on the need to focus on security-related issues including coastal security, left wing extremism, narcotics trafficking, cyber-crime and border area management.This year, for the first time, over 200 officers of different ranks from various states/UTs were requested to submit papers on contemporary security issues being deliberated at the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/internal-security-discussed-as-pm-modi-attends-conference-of-dgps-in-lucknow-101637424206421.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Irregularities in Washim trust: ED issues 3rd summons to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued the third summons to Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Bhavana Gawli, asking her to appear before the agency’s investigators on November 24 for questioning in connection with the money laundering case registered against her. The MP has skipped her previous two summons. According to ED, Gawali, in connivance with her aide, conspired to convert a trust into a company through forgery and fraud with an intention to take over trust’s properties that are worth ₹69 crore. The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Gawali is based on the first information report (FIR) registered with Risod police station in Washim district on May 12, 2020, in connection with alleged financial irregularities in the Mahila Utkarsha Pratishatan trust. Gawali, who was the trust’s chairperson, is the complainant in the case and had alleged that her personal secretary, Ashok Gandule, and other employees have connived to misappropriate funds worth ₹18.18 crore belonging to Mahila Utkarsha Pratishatan. However, all the employees as witnesses have stated before ED that Gawali’s complaint is a false one and was filed only with an intention of taking over the trust management under her individual control and to harass them and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/irregularities-in-washim-trust-ed-issues-3rd-summons-to-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-101637423126338.html
20-11-2021||Patna||Minister promises children at govt care homes access to schools||Children lodged at government care institutions in Bihar will be able to join general schools in the state and will also be provided the transportation facility to and fro, state’s social welfare minister Madan Sahni said on Saturday.The minister was speaking at a function, “Baccho Ka Samvaad, Adhikariyon Ke Saath”, organised in Patna by the social welfare department with support from UNICEF’s Bihar chapter to mark the Child Rights Day on November 20. “There have been arrangements of teachers and classes and smart classes at every government care institution, but some children also want to join schools outside the home. Their wishes will be considered and the department will try to arrange this facility for them,” Sahni said.“Recently, over two dozen girls from care homes got jobs in hospitality sector in Bengaluru, where they were sent by the social welfare department to join hospitality management course. The outcome has been quite encouraging,” the minister said. “Now, another batch will be sent to Bengaluru for the course and training,” he said.Efforts are under way to arrange for skill development training and help them get jobs here, Sahni said.Atul Prasad, principal secretary, social welfare department, said if things go fine, efforts would be made to make children join general category schools from the forthcoming session.Earlier, the children submitted to the social welfare minister a charter of demands, which included appointment of teachers for every subject in the schools being run on government care institution promises, facility of sanitary pad bank and their disposal system, vaccination and other medical facilities at the homes. They also demanded effective implementation of laws against child marriage and child labourers.Rajkumar, the social welfare director, said the charter of demands was created after rounds of discussions at the Bal Darbaars held every government care home in the state. “These discussion sessions started on Children’s Day (November 14) and today the list of demands was submitted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minister-promises-children-at-govt-care-homes-access-to-schools-101637422946316.html
20-11-2021||Patna||Patna gets 44th rank in Swachh Survekshan 2021||The state capital stood at the 44th rank among 47 urban local bodies in the 6th edition of Swachh Survekshan 2021, the report of which was released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) on Saturday.In the survey, 4,320 cities participated this year. The cities were evaluated for a total of 6,000 marks divided into three categories, including citizen’s voice, certifications and service level programme. Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has scored 2739.92 out of 6,000 marks in the survey, which was 1,186.89 higher than its previous year’s score of 1552.11.PMC jumped to the third rank among 97 cities in the Ganga towns category from last year’s 37th rank.Last year, PMC stood last among all 47 urban local bodies with a population of more than 10 lakh. Harshita, public relations officer of Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL), said, “Patna’s ranking in the cleanliness survey has improved than last year. Constant efforts are being made by the civic body to perform even better in coming years.”She said that PMC fetched better marks in the citizen voice’s category as a large number of people shared their opinion. Altogether 477,849 people in the state voted for their respective local bodies. Of them, more than 2.01 lakh voters were polled from PMC. Open defecation free plus certificate helped the civic body 300 points, which was zero last year.PMC claimed a cent per cent door to door garbage collection across all six circles. PMC aims to improve the score by achieving cent per cent waste segregation practice in the capital city. “We have carried out extensive awareness programme for bringing behavioural change among citizens for disposing of dry, wet and biomedical wastes separately. The civic body is optimally utilising available resources for maintaining cleanliness.”Patna’s mayor Sita Sahu thanked the citizens for extending their support and appealed to them to participate in maintaining hygiene and cleanliness in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-gets-44th-rank-in-swachh-survekshan-2021-101637422647627.html
20-11-2021||Patna||Madhubani judge ‘assaulted’ by cops has a running feud with police||The judge in Bihar’s Madhubani district allegedly assaulted by policemen on November 18 had written to district and state police chief on August 6, apprehending harm from a local police officer, according to Bihar Judicial Service Association (BSJA) secretary Ajit Kumar Singh. Police sources, however, said the complaint was found to be false during a probe ordered by the district administration.“In his letter to the top police officers, additional district and session judge Avinash Kumar had claimed that Chandramani, the then station house officer (SHO) Jhanjharpur police station, had said at a public function that if given green signal by Madhubani superintendent of police (SP), he could barge into his chamber and beat him,” said Singh, himself an additional district judge at Kishanganj. Police sources, however, said that following orders from the district judge, the administration had constituted a two-member committee of subdivisional officer and the deputy superintendent of police to probe the incident, but found the allegation false.A departmental probe against Chandramani is still going on, sources said. Madhubani SP Dr Satya Prakash and additional director general of police (headquarters) J S Gangwar refused to comment. On November 18, ADJ Avinash Kumar, who is no stranger to controversies, filed a police complaint alleging that station house officer of Ghoghardiha police station, Gopal Krishna, and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma entered his chamber, assaulted him and even pointed a pistol at him.Both police officers, who have alleged they were assaulted in the court premises the same day, have been arrested.Meanwhile, taking immediate suo motu cognisance, the Patna High Court set up a special bench to hear the matter the same day. The bench fixed the next hearing for November 29 and state’s chief secretary, police chief and Madhubani SP have been asked to appear before the court with a report. Avinash Kumar, who has been in the headlines for his unusual orders, was stripped of his judicial powers by the Patna high court on September 24 this year.In one of his orders, he had granted bail to a molestation accused on the condition that he would wash clothes of the entire village for free for a week.While he was posted in Patna, he had served show-cause notices on the chief secretary and the state police chief for non-compliance of the order to deduct ₹2,500 from the DM and SP’s salaries in a lynching case and deposit the sum to the CM Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-judge-assaulted-by-cops-has-a-running-feud-with-police-101637422646256.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Student tips off Mumbai cops on unidentified man's bomb threat on messaging app||A 26-year-old student called up the Mumbai police control room in the early hours of Saturday to inform that an unidentified person he was chatting with on a messaging app had spoken about bomb blasts taking place, an official said.The student, reportedly the son of a television actor residing in Verma Nagar in Andheri, told police he had started a conversation with an unidentified person on the messaging app, he said.“The student has said the man first taunted him about India's defeat to Pakistan in the T20 World Cup and then went on to threaten about bomb blasts, though no place or other details were specified,” the official said.He said the student just wanted to ensure police were alerted about the bomb threat so that the latter can take appropriate action.“He was just sharing information. There is nothing more to the incident. After an inquiry, a diary entry was made at Andheri police station We will be approaching the app operators to get information about this unidentified person,” the official informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/student-tips-off-mumbai-cops-on-unidentified-man-s-bomb-threat-on-messaging-app-101637421418237.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives case, Mansukh Hiran murder: Bookie Naresh Gor granted bail||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Saturday granted bail to cricket bookie Naresh Gor, who was arrested on March 21 in connection with the Antilia explosive scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Gor is accused of supplying five SIM cards to the main accused – dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Some of the SIM cards were purportedly used by the accused persons for communication during the commission of the crimes. NIA had claimed that Gor was part of the larger conspiracy hatched by Vaze along with the other accused to eliminate Hiran – the owner of the explosives-laden car that was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia. Gor’s counsel, advocate Aniket Nikam, had argued that it was Vaze who had summoned his client’s employer to his office at Mumbai Police commisionerate and had asked him to supply dummy SIM cards to them. Vaze had told the employer that the SIM cards were required by the police for a secret operation which was never disclosed either to Gor or his employer. Nikam added that Gor had never spoken to Vaze nor was there any call data record (CDR) to that effect. Gor’s employer was threatened by Vaze and coerced to provide some SIM cards, following which the cricket bookie procured them, claimed Nikam, adding that the cards were used by Vaze and others for getting the Thane trader killed. “Gor never knew why the SIM cards were being required by Vaze. Before charging any person with conspiracy, the end objective should be known to the accused who is to be charged. There is nothing on record with NIA to show that Gor was even aware of the conspiracy,” Nikam submitted. Opposing the bail application, NIA said, “Gaur was a part of the larger conspiracy hatched by Vaze along with former Mumbai Police personnel Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde.” The federal agency further claimed that the SIM cards used by the accused were provided by Gor and were used to call Hiran and bring him out of his house, and later he was killed. However, judge AT Wankhede of the NIA court granted bail to Gor in the case.Previously, the case was being probed by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). Later, NIA took over the case from ATS. On February 25, a green Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill members of the Ambani family. Hiran’s body was found on March 5 in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-case-mansukh-hiran-murder-bookie-naresh-gor-granted-bail-101637421267119.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Maharashtra’s first police dog training centre to come up at Baramati||The state will be setting up the first state-of-the-art dog training centre for Maharashtra police spread over 20-acre of land at Baramati at a cost of Rs50 crore. The dog training centre will be located near the additional SP’s office due to the police force’s diverse objectives of tackling terrorism and Naxalism, and detecting crime among others.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “Dog squads play an important role in terms of protection. Trained dogs work well to deal with incidents such as thefts, bomb blasts, arrival of VIPs for events, anti-Naxal operations and sniffing RDX. The dog training centre in Baramati will have all the necessary facilities. A spacious dog training centre worth about Rs50 crore will be set up on 20-acre land which has already been identified and is vacant.”“You will be awestruck when you see the institute yourself. It will be on the lines of a horse stable. Today, many changes are being seen in different fields especially policing, where sniffer dogs play a very important role in the protection of human lives,” Pawar said.Currently, the sole dog training centre in Maharashtra is located at the Shivajinagar police headquarters; it came into existence in 1965 as part of the state CID. Regular and refresher dog training courses are organised by the chief dog master under the supervision of the additional superintendent of police. There are four dog trainers of the rank of head constable (H.C.) and attendants working under the chief dog master. Presently, there are 92 dog units across districts and commissionerates in the state. According to the state CID, each dog unit is helmed by an officer of the rank of PSI. There is an initial training period of six months. However, this duration largely depends on the ability of the dog and the training imparted.The state CID is also looking for land for the proposed state-of-the-art dog training centre in Pune. The current dog training facility houses only 26 dogs. Moreover, it does not have a residential facility for dog handlers. In 2013, the state government had allotted 13-acre land at Daund but the CID could not acquire the land due to its distance from Pune which had legal ramifications. In 2020, the state government provided a 5-acre land parcel at Wadachiwadi near Kondhwa. Since it was in the immediate vicinity of a police firing range, a feasibility study of the land and site was carried out by the CID wherein it was revealed that constant firing at the range would be a source of disturbance for dog training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtras-first-police-dog-training-centre-to-come-up-at-baramati-101637421146370.html
20-11-2021||City||Delhi pollution: DDMA allows more people to use public transport system||In a modification to an earlier order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Saturday that more passengers will be allowed to use Delhi’s public transport system in a bid to minimise the use of private vehicles so as to improve the ambient air quality, as the city, in recent days, has been battling severe air pollution.Also Read | Delhi pollution: Govt issues order, bans entry of trucks in CapitalUnder the revised guidelines, transportation on the Delhi Metro will be allowed with 100 per cent seating capacity, with 30 passengers permitted to stand in each coach.Also, for intra-state movement of buses, standing passengers at up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity will be permitted, in addition to 100 per cent seating capacity, the order said, adding that for boarding, only the rear door can be used, while for de-boarding, only the front door can be used.The order further stated that the transport department, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will ensure that passengers fully comply with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.The guidelines will be in effect till the intervening night of November 30 and December 1 or till further directions, while all previous directions remain unchanged, it added.The order was issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev in his capacity as the chairperson of DDMA’s state executive committee.On Saturday, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI), at 374, was ‘very poor,’ while the concentration of PM10 and PM2.5 in the air, at 352 and 218 respectively, was ‘very poor’ as well, tweeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-pollution-ddma-allows-more-people-to-use-public-transport-system-101637420024041.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 833 Covid cases, 15 deaths, lowest since Nov 9||Maharashtra on Saturday added 833 new Covid-19 cases and 15 fatalities – the lowest since November 9. The overall case count rose to 6,629,577, while the toll climbed to 140,722. Meanwhile, Mumbai added 188 new infections, pushing its Covid-19 tally to 761,641. Mumbai added one Covid-19 fatality on Saturday, the health department report stated.The state’s active case count dropped to 10,249, after 2,271 were discharged after recovery on Saturday. Mumbai’s current active caseload was 3,378.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 104,739 samples and recorded a positivity rate of 0.79%. So far, the state has tested 64,594,210 samples and has an overall Covid-19 positivity rate of 10.26%.Maharashtra has recorded around 1,000 cases daily for nearly a fortnight now, and state health department officials said that the daily numbers could go down in the 700-900 range in a few weeks if this trend continues. “The tests continue to be over 100,000, and we still have been reporting cases between 800 and 1,000 for over a week. This trend is good for the state. We can see a further drop in the daily caseload in the coming weeks if this downward trend continues,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity of name.Meanwhile, Mumbai has reported less than 300 cases since November 11. On November 15, it recorded only 182 infections.A chunk of the state’s new cases continued to come from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts. Municipal Corporations in MMR, excluding Mumbai, cumulatively reported 139 cases and seven deaths. Pune district, meanwhile, recorded 239 new cases and four deaths on Saturday, while Nashik district reported 52 cases and one death. Ahmednagar reported 88 new cases and one fatality. In Vidarbha, the districts continued to report new infections in single digits. Akola, Yavatmal, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts did not report any new infection on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-833-covid-cases-15-deaths-lowest-since-nov-9-101637419889486.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Bigger, better and safer: #TradeFair makes a comeback||New DelhiSmog-engulfed skies or the underlying fear of Covid-19 — residents of Delhi-NCR are equipped to brave all this, and more, as they return to India International Trade Fair, organised by India Trade Promotion Organisation, that is back after a year’s gap. Be it dry fruits from Afghanistan, textiles from Gujarat, lamps from Turkey or felt toys from Nepal, the 40th edition of IITF has a lot to offer.Nearly 3,000 exhibitors from 20 states, three union territories and nine countries are participating in this year’s fair, themed Aatmanirbhar Bharat. And, vendors are glad to back after a year. “I’ve been coming here for 20 years, except last year. Customers are a little less, but those coming in are purchasing lamps and bowls,” says Hakan Karpuz, a Turkish exhibitor selling exquisite ceramic lamps, bowls, hangings, etc.Meet the mascotFrom temperature checks at the entrance of every hall, regular announcements and stickers on the floor to remind visitors to maintain social distancing, all Covid-19 safety measures are in place. And, if found with your mask below your nose or chin, be prepared to be stopped by the vaccination drop mascot! This mascot signals people to pull up their masks before proceeding, ensuring a safer environment for all.A Haat for Hunar: True to #vocalforlocalIf Indian handicrafts is your cup of tea, you are in for a treat at IITF! Over 550 artisans from more than 30 states/union territories are participating in the 33rd Hunar Haat, selling indigenous handicrafts.You can find hand-embroidered Pashmina shawls, handmade bamboo bags, hand-carved wooden vases and more. Catch printed rugs from Rajasthan at C-220, Hall 3 and Assamese cane products at C-96. You may also catch some craftsmen in action, as handloom demonstrations and a Rajasthani puppet painting avenue greets visitors outside Hall 3. “You can get all the products you need under one roof. I’m scouting for some nice wood and stone carvings,” says Anju Chauhan, a shopper from Gurugram. Catch It LiveWhat: India International Trade FairWhere: Pragati Maidan, DelhiOn till: November 27Time: 9:30 am to 7:30 pm Nearest Metro Station: Supreme Court on Blue Line (Tickets available on 60 Delhi Metro station and online)Authors tweet @siddhijainn and @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bigger-better-and-safer-tradefair-makes-a-comeback-101637419000914.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Nepean Sea Road residents to get wide footpath after 12 years||Mumbai The residents of Nepean Sea Road will get wide footpaths after a wait of 12 years. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed a plan to expand and beautify the footpaths on the entire one kilometre Nepean Sea Road stretch to make it pedestrian-friendly.The project is expected to cost ₹3 crore and the construction work is expected to start by the end of November and will finish by February 2022. It is funded through various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and local residents are also being involved in the development process.Speaking with HT, assistant municipal commissioner from D ward Prashant Gaikwad said, “As part of the proposed plan, the carriageway will be 6.5-metre wide and the average width of the footpath will not be less than 2.5 metres. In parking areas and junctions, the footpath could be as wide as 5 metres,” shared Gaikwad.He also assured that the portions of the road which has zebra crossing, will be elevated to ensure that pedestrians and people with disabilities don’t have to step down from the footpath while crossing the road. The plan also includes making a special bus bay near the existing BEST bus stop.Rahul Kadri, architect and chairperson of the Nepean Sea Road Citizen’s Forum said, “The idea behind this project is to encourage people to walk instead of using vehicles in the stretch,” Kadri told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nepean-sea-road-residents-to-get-wide-footpath-after-12-years-101637417609319.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Still 3 lakh to be given first vaccination dose against Covid in Thane Municipal Corporation limits||Despite rigorous campaigns and vaccination drives, Thane Municipal Corporation has around three lakh beneficiaries left to be administered with the first dose.There has been only a 26.21% increase in first dose vaccination post Diwali, according to the surveyors. TMC officials claimed that the reluctance in the minds of people in certain pockets of the city continues.“I am very scared of needles and my children kept insisting on getting vaccinated but I ignored them. It was only when the TMC officers came and said that this will benefit my health that I visited the centre half-heartedly,” said Shailaja Pawar, a 57-year-old resident of Diva who got her first vaccination against Covid on Thursday. Meanwhile, there are entire families in Mumbra who are not keen on getting jabbed. “None of us in our vicinity have been detected Covid positive in the last two years. We have not been affected during the wave. Then, how will it impact us going forward? We are not keen on getting vaccinated and then falling ill,” said Faiza Shaikh, a 55-year-old resident of Mumbra. Faiza’s entire family including senior citizens have not been jabbed yet.Thane city has nine wards wherein areas like Majiwada-Manapada and Vartak Nagar had already achieved 100% first dose vaccination while Kalwa and Wagle Estate have now achieved more than 100% and around 90.35% first dose inoculation, respectively. These are the wards that have plush residential areas and a large number of moving population.Uthalsar ward has had a major impact post Diwali. It has now achieved 87.69% vaccination, up from 51% until October 25. Meanwhile, areas like Diva, Lokmanya-Savarkar Nagar and Mumbra that are densely populated and have remote pockets as well are still at below 30% first dose vaccination.TMC conducted special camps at places of worship to increase the number of first dose vaccination. “The areas with the least vaccination are Kausa, Mumbra and Shil within Thane civic body. Savarkar Nagar, Kharegaon, Retibunder and some parts of Diva also have fewer vaccinated population,” said Dr Prasad Patil, immunization officer, TMC.Despite the rigorous drive initiated, wards like Diva, Lokmanya-Savarkar Nagar and Mumbra have seen hardly a 10% hike each in the last three weeks.Ranjana Patil, a TMC nurse, said, “There are various reasons cited by people to avoid vaccination including reluctance, nervousness, worry for the side effects of the vaccine, believing in rumours about its after effects and many more. There is a lot of convincing and cajoling required before vaccinating those residing in chawls or slum pockets of the city.” Patil is one of the nurses in camps set up in areas with low vaccination response.Dr Sanjay Pingulkar, general physician and member of Thane Rapid Action Covid Team, said, “The main aim of vaccination is to reduce the impact of the virus. For an inoculated individual, hospitalisation usually does not arise according to the current trends. There are only certain pockets in the city that are having an unvaccinated population. As the number of cases is low, the situation seems to be in control. But if the probable third wave strikes, we will have to wait and watch how it will impact the unvaccinated population. The vaccinated population can develop herd immunity as well across the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/still-3-lakh-to-be-given-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-in-thane-municipal-corporation-limits-101637417486753.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||CBSE students allotted exam centre 26km away, board officials assure change||Sixty class 10 students of Malad’s Billabong High School were shocked to find out that the exam centre allotted to them for the upcoming board exams was nearly 26 kms away from their school and residence. All residents of Malad, these students were assigned to appear for their board exams at KMS School in Parel.While minor papers for CBSE class 10 and 12 students commenced from November 16, the major papers are scheduled to start from November 30 this year. Worried about the amount of time students will end up spending commuting to and from the exam centre, parents approached the regional office of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in Pune, where authorities have now assured them of a change in exam centre.“As if preparing for the exam is not tough enough, our children were expected to travel 50 kms every day (to and fro) for the exams. I was contemplating booking my daughter and myself into a hotel room in Parel, close to the exam centre,” said the mother of one of the students.Starting this academic year, CBSE decided to conduct board exams in two rounds—the first of these rounds is currently underway. The 90-minute objective type question papers will be answered on OMR sheets.“November 30 onwards students will go to the allotted exam centre to appear for their papers and we refuse to understand why our school principal did not raise objection to such a grave error when she was first informed about it. Students received their hall tickets early this week and despite several queries raised (by parents), they got little help from the school.Repeated attempts to reach school authorities did not yield any response.An official from the CBSE regional office in Pune told HT that the complaints from parents of the school has been received and new hall tickets will be released by early next week. “We have reallocated these students to another school at a distance of 4km,” said M Dharmadhikari, CBSE regional director for Pune (Mumbai schools are under its jurisdiction).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbse-students-allotted-exam-centre-26km-away-board-officials-assure-change-101637415805719.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka writes to PM Modi, seeks removal of MoS||The Congress wants to keep the pressure up on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issues of farmers’ agitation as it has urged him to withdraw cases registered against farmers and to not share dais at the DGPs/IGPs’ conference with Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni whose son Ashish Mishra is the main accused of the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence.As the Congress celebrates “Kisan Samman Divas” on Saturday to mark the victory of farmers following the PM’s announcement to repeal three “black” farm laws, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has sent a letter to Modi urging him not to share dais with the union minister and dismiss him.“Don’t share dais with your union minister of state for home if your intentions are clear towards farmers. Dismiss him. Withdraw cases registered against farmers and give financial assistance to the families of those killed in the agitation of farmers,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in her letter sent to the PM on Saturday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been camping here since Friday evening for the three-day 56th Conference of Director Generals of Police (DGP) and Inspector Generals of Police (IGP) at Police Headquarters, Lucknow.“I have read in newspapers that you will be holding discussions with the country’s top brass responsible for maintaining law and order at the DGPs’ conference in Lucknow. All the country watched the cruelty done to farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri… Uttar Pradesh government has tried to crush the voices raised for justice because of political pressure. The Supreme Court too has observed that the state government appeared having intentions to save some special accused in the case. I have met families of the farmers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. They are in unbearable pain. All these families want justice. There is no hope for justice with union minister of state for home continuing in office,” said Priyanka.Questioning Union home minister Amit Shah and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for sharing dais with Teni recently, she said, “You are the Prime Minister. You know about your responsibility towards the farmers. To ensure justice to every citizen is the duty as well as the moral responsibility of the Prime Minister.”“Addressing the people, you said the decision to repeal farm laws was taken in the interest of farmers with truthful intent and pure heart. You said you have good intentions for farmers. If this is true, getting justice for victims of Lakhimpur Kheri violence should be the top priority for you… If you share dais with the father of accused, this will give a message that you are with those patronising the killers. This will be disrespectful to 700 farmers who have lost their lives,” Priyanka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-removal-of-mos-101637414849686.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Jayant Chaudhary says farmers should keep up pressure on government||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary on Saturday suggested that farmers should continue their pressure on the government despite the Centre’s decision to withdraw three contentious farm laws.He assured the farmers that his party will back them on whatever decision they take on the future course of their movement. Farmers’ unions are insisting on legal guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) despite the decision to withdraw the new laws.The RLD chief was speaking at the Parivartan Sandesh rally in the Baghera area of Muzaffarnagar district in western Uttar Pradesh.“The RLD will side with whatever decision is taken by the protesting farmers regarding the future course of their movement,” he said.Lashing out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said everyone should be an “andolanjeevi” to get their rights. The government ultimately had to meet the farmers’ demand, he noted.He also accused the BJP government of being ignorant about what he described as the poor economic situation in the country.The RLD leader said if his party comes to power it will waive pending electricity bills of weavers and farmers and reduce the new bills to half . He promised one crore jobs to youngsters and said the honour of women would be protected.Former MLA Rajpal Baliyan , Rajendra Sharma , Noor Saleem Rana, former minister Yograj Singh and others shared the stage with the RLD chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jayant-chaudhary-says-farmers-should-keep-up-pressure-on-government-101637414845590.html
20-11-2021||Kolkata||Ex-Howrah deputy mayor's daughter-in-law held for 'selling' newborn babies||The daughter-in-law of former Howrah deputy mayor Minati Adhikari and a state government official were among 10 people arrested from West Bengal's Salkia for allegedly selling newborn babies from an adoption centre, police said on Saturday.Acting on complaints, Howrah City Police Commissioner C Sudhakar led a raid on 'Cradle Baby Centre' late on Friday night and arrested 10 people, including the woman, who was running the adoption centre for the last five years, and the West Bengal Civil Service (WBCS) official, a senior officer said.Several babies were removed from the private home by police during the raid, he said."We had received several complaints against this NGO, including allegations of selling babies in the guise of running the home and that there were incidents of molestation of the infants."An investigating team had been constituted to probe the matter. They found several discrepancies, following which we made the arrests and registered a case under POCSO Act," the officer told PTI.He said that further investigation is underway to ascertain whether the non-governmental organisation (NGO) has links with inter-state child-trafficking rackets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/exhowrah-deputy-mayor-s-daughter-in-law-held-for-selling-newborn-babies-101637413771593.html
20-11-2021||Kolkata||Seven-year-old boy beaten to death on suspicion of theft; one held||A seven-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by the security guard of a fish farm on suspicion of theft at a village in North 24 Parganas district around 30 km north west of Kolkata. The accused, Abdul Aziz, 48, was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s relative, police said. According to locals, the incident took place on November 4, when the child was playing with his friends near the fish farm. “The children had tied a magnet and were throwing it in the water. The rope snapped and the child went down into the bheri to find the magnet. The security guard spotted him and thought that the child was stealing fish. He started beating the child while the other children managed to flee,” said Monirul Islam, a villager. According to the police, the child returned home but didn’t tell anything about the incident to his family. He had some bruises but told his parents that he had fallen from a tree and hurt himself. Later however, he disclosed to his parents that he was beaten up by Aziz. “There were some injuries on his body where the blood had clot. He was not eating properly and had fallen ill,” said Sakhi Mondol. He was rushed to the Barasat State General Hospital from where he was referred to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata. He died on Friday. “Initially the family didn’t lodge any complaint. We spoke to the family and they lodged a complaint around November 15. The man has been arrested and interrogation is going on,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sevenyearold-boy-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-one-held-101637413885495.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn is again planning a dedicated startup policy||Slug: It had earlier formulated Chandigarh Startup policy, 2021, but last year decided against notifying the draft in favour of Centre’s startup action plan It’s still not over for the Chandigarh startup policy. The UT administration is once again considering formulating a dedicated policy specific to the city requirements.The administration had earlier formulated an ambitious ‘Chandigarh Startup policy 2021’, but last year decided against notifying the draft in favour of the Centre’s startup action plan.“We are revisiting the issue and will soon take a comprehensive view on the policy. The Centre’s action plan is generic. If we want to give specific benefits to Chandigarh startups tailored to their needs then we need a Chandigarh startup policy,” said a senior UT official.Currently, startups in the city can be registered under the Centre’s action plan, 2016, on its startup portal. Also, the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) helps IT-related startups.The UT industry department has started discussions with different stakeholders, including the local industry. A high-level meeting to be chaired by the UT adviser has been called by the department and the industry representatives have been invited to the meet scheduled for November 22.“The industry representatives and also officials within the administration believe that a localised startup policy can be critical in providing the essential funding, mentorship and market access support required by startups to grow as important contributors to the local economy in terms of revenue and job creation,” said the official.A startup policy contains provisions to incentivise key startup stakeholders such as incubators and institutions of higher education among others so as to promote holistic development for India’s startup ecosystem.Out of the 36 states and union territories, 30 have their own dedicated startup policies.Once being promoted as an IT hub, Chandigarh has been lagging behind neighbouring cities, particularly Mohali, in terms of attracting new talent and setting up industrial units.Likely on lines of 2021 draft policyThe revived policy is likely to be formulated on the lines of the Chandigarh Draft Policy, 2021.The draft recommended setting up a Chandigarh Seed Fund Scheme to plug in the gap for early-stage startup financing in the UT, interest-free loans, empanelment of startup mentors, and development of co-working spaces, and setting up of incubators.The policy will provide for incentives over and above the Startup India Action Plan of the Government of India. “In case the same benefit is enlisted in another policy of the UT administration, it may be availed under only one policy,” said the official.A startup portal (website) will also be created, which will be a one-stop platform for startups and ecosystem stakeholders containing all relevant information and resources.At least 10% of all goods and services will be procured by the administration from UT-registered startups, states the draft policy, a copy of which is with the HT.The 2021 draft also mandated the administration to set up a dedicated entrepreneurship centre for Women (ECW), which was envisaged as a hub for aspiring and seasoned women entrepreneurs providing access to mentorship, capacity-building exercises, and other programmes beneficial for women-led startups. The ECW shall run dedicated incubation and acceleration programme for women on an annual or biannual basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-is-again-planning-a-dedicated-startup-policy-101637413285756.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||After inauguration last December, indoor sports complex in Vashi lying unused||To give a boost to the city’s sports infrastructure, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) had developed an indoor sports complex at Vashi Sector 10 and inaugurated it last December.However, the complex has not been opened for the local residents even for a single day after that.According to officials from the civic sports department, the complex was developed mainly for promoting games such as billiards, table tennis, carrom and chess. They developed the single-storied building of the complex by spending ₹66 lakh on one part of a ground near the mini-seashore.Avinash Lad, former corporator of the area, said, “Due to the lack of indoor sports complexes in Navi Mumbai, our youth have to travel to Mumbai. We had been raising this matter for the past several years and NMMC finally approved the proposal in 2018. So, even as small in size, this is the first indoor sports complex developed by the NMMC. Sadly, they took no effort to open it in the last one year.”According to the officials, the size of the entire ground is 11,891sqm. Of this, they used 1,577sqm of land for this complex. The rest of the ground has been reserved for outdoor games like cricket, football and handball. Manish Bhoir, an activist and sports enthusiast from Vashi, said, “After the second lockdown, NMMC opened all parks, gardens and gymnasiums. Even the private clubs and other institutes are now continuing with their routine affairs. Why can’t NMMC open this indoor sports complex for us?” Manoj Mahale, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (sports), said, “Even as we developed this complex keeping in mind different indoor games, our priority was to promote billiards through it. At present, we don’t have anyone who can train the visitors on that game. We are in the process of hiring coaches and as soon as we do that, the complex will be opened. It may take us one more month to finish the process of hiring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-inauguration-last-december-indoor-sports-complex-in-vashi-lying-unused-101637413225466.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Tata Centre asks for NMMT bus services between Parel and Kharghar||The Tata Memorial Centre’s Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) authorities have requested the Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) to provide bus services between their place in Kharghar and the Tata Memorial Hospital in Parel.The distance between both the hospitals is around 35km. However, there is no smooth public transport system to travel the distance. According to the ACTREC officials, around 200 patients travel to their centre from the hospital in Parel almost every day.SH Jafri, senior administrative officer of ACTREC, said, “A large number of our patients are not locals of Mumbai and hence they face a lot of problems while travelling from Parel to Kharghar and vice-versa in trains, especially during the peak hours. Therefore, we have requested NMMT to start bus services between the two hospitals. As around 200 patients come here in a day, a minimum of three buses will be required. We have asked for one bus in the morning, one during the day and one in the evening (to and fro). The NMMT officials have given us a positive response.” Yogesh Kaduskar, general manager of NMMT, said, “Many of our buses and officials were dedicated to transporting Covid patients during the pandemic. Now, since the Covid scenario is much better in Navi Mumbai, we are taking them back from NMMC. Therefore, we may not have any issue dedicating a few buses between these two hospitals. We will analyse the entire scenario and take a decision soon.”On August 15, NMMT started bus services between Kharghar railway station and ACTREC, which is located at Sector 22, receiving a very good response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tata-centre-asks-for-nmmt-bus-services-between-parel-and-kharghar-101637413168493.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police constable arrested for molesting 10-year-old girl||Bhandup police have arrested a police constable attached to the Worli local arms (LA) unit for allegedly molesting a 10-year-old girl. The accused police personnel has been suspended from service, pending a departmental inquiry. The accused, Harshal Bodke, is a resident of Kalyan. According to police officers, Bodke, 25, had last week visited a Bhandup bar along with his two other friends. After having some drinks, the trio was roaming around on bike outside the railway station area. According to the complainant, the accused got down from the bike and inappropriately touched her daughter. She raised an alarm and visited Bhandup police station to report the matter. The woman and her daughter had come to Mumbai from Ratnagiri. On the basis of her complaint, the police registered an offence on November 15 and arrested Bodke under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. After his two-day police custody, a local court has remanded him in jail custody. A police officer from Bhandup police station said that during interrogation, Bodke claimed that he had not touched the girl with an intention of molesting her. He claimed that he has been married for the past five years and has no children. He love kids and was just trying to speak to the girl, he claimed in his interrogation. However, the police department observed that prima facie his act was “shameful and immoral” and hence, suspended him. The suspension order has been issued by the deputy commissioner of police, Worli LA division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-constable-arrested-for-molesting-10-year-old-girl-101637410405804.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Maya demands new farm law guaranteeing MSP||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday said while the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws was a late but much needed move, the government was yet to act on a demand by farmers to enact a farm law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) to them for their produce.She also sought to remind the BJP government that the country had suffered due to what she described as the “autocratic” Congress regime led by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. In a veiled manner, she said the Centre’s decision to withdraw farm laws might have been politically motivated. Mayawati is among the several opposition leaders who have said that the Centre’s announcement was forced upon due to electoral compulsions in Punjab and in western UP, areas where farmers’ agitation was widely expected to cost the BJP in the 2022 assembly elections. Throughout their agitation the farmers had flagged, among other things, the government’s plan to do away with the MSP and despite firm and repeated denials by the government, the farmers had stuck to their stand. “The Centre’s withdrawal of three controversial farm laws following a sharp agitation has been dubbed a late but wise move. However, it has also been described as a decision forced upon by electoral compulsions. Hence some strong steps are required in this regard,” Mayawati tweeted. “It is in this light that a new law guaranteeing minimum support price to farmers is enacted,” Mayawati added. On Friday too, she had said though announcement for withdrawal of three contentious farm laws had been made, the government was yet to act upon a demand by farmers to enact a law guaranteeing minimum support price for their produce.Mayawati also said it would be better if the Centre ensured the cases registered against farmers who had been agitating against those farm laws were withdrawn. “In the past, the country has suffered a lot due to the then Indira Gandhi-led Congress party’s autocratic behaviour. Now, the country hopes it never has to witness a similar thing again,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maya-demands-new-farm-law-guaranteeing-msp-101637408485007.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||No ‘positive evidence’ against Aryan Khan, others in drugs-on-cruise case: Bombay HC||There is no evidence of a conspiracy between Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) last month, to commit drug-related offences and nothing objectionable was found in the WhatsApp conversations between them, the Bombay high court said on Saturday.The court granted bail to Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha in connection with the cruise ship drugs case on October 28 and the order was only released on Saturday.“Having regard to the material brought on record by the Respondent on the issue of conspiracy, this Court prima facie has not noticed any positive evidence against the Applicants on the said issue,” Justice Nitin Sambre said in the 14-page order, according to Bar and Bench.Also read | NCB examines ‘important witnesses’, reconstructs events in drugs-on-cruise case“This Court is of the opinion that the claim put forth by the Respondent that Applicants should be considered to have intention to commit an offence under the NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act), having found in possession of commercial quantity, in the backdrop of case of hatching conspiracy is liable to be rejected," Sambre also said in the order made available on the Bombay HC’s website.The judge said that just because the accused were travelling on the cruise cannot be a ground to invoke the offence of Section 29 against the accused. "This Court is required to be sensitive to fact that there has to be presence of basic material in the form of evidence so as to substantiate the case of conspiracy against the Applicants," the judge added.No drug was found in Aryan Khan's possession while the quantity recovered from Merchant and Dhamecha were 'small' under the NDPS Act, the court noted. But there was no such material, the judge held. The NCB has alleged it seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of MDMA ecstasy after its raid on the cruise ship.Also read | SRK's manager to be summoned again, say cops as Pooja Dadlani skips questioningThe Bombay HC judge also observed that the WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan did not have anything objectionable to suggest that he conspired to commit offences under the NDPS act."After having gone through the Whats-App chats extracted from Applicant/Accused no. 1’s (Khan) phone, nothing objectionable could be noticed to suggest that Applicant nos. 1 & 2 (Merchant) or all three applicants alongwith other Accused persons in agreement have meeting of minds and have hatched conspiracy committing the offence in question," the order said."Rather the investigation carried out till this date suggests that Applicant/Accused nos. 1 & 2 (Khan and Merchant) were travelling independent of Applicant/Accused no. 3 (Dhamecha) and there was no meeting of minds on the aforesaid issue.”Also read | Sameer Wankhede part of plot to kidnap Aryan: Nawab MalikAryan Khan was taken into custody by the NCB on October 2 after the central agency led by senior official Sameer Wankhede raided a cruise ship. He was arrested under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS act on October 3.His bail application was rejected by additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar, saying that it was not maintainable as only the special court of sessions was entitled to hear the plea.Khan then moved the special court under the NDPS act seeking bail, which was also rejected on October 20. He then moved the high court, which granted him bail on October 28 under several conditons. Khan and others were then released from jail on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-positive-evidence-against-aryan-khan-others-in-drugs-case-bombay-hc-101637407356648.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||UP Board exams-2022: Teams under DIOSs to undertake centres’ mapping||The exam centres allotment policy for the proposed high school and intermediate examinations-2022 of UP Board expected to be held in the last week of March next year has been released by the state government. Like last year, this time also priority will be given to girls’ schools for being made exam centres, said state education department officials in the know about the development. “For the first time, a system has been introduced of constituting a team at the level of district inspectors of schools (DIOSs) for mapping (geo location) of schools to be made exam centres,” they said.Earlier, the mapping process of the examination centres was done at the level of principals but this was resulting in avoidable delay in centre allotments. To solve this problem, the responsibility of mapping had now been given to the DIOSs, the officials added.“The exam centre allotment policy for the 2022 UP Board examinations has been issued by the state government. We request for time bound action for centre allotments using the online mode as per these norms,” UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla has said in a missive sent to all district magistrates (DMs) and DIOSs of the state intimating about the government’s decision along with a copy of the centre allotment policy as conveyed by additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla on November 18, 2021. The centres allotment policy, a copy of which is with HT, makes plain that information related to physical resources in schools to be made exam centres will be uploaded on the website of UP Board by November 27 by officials concerned following which a list of the centres will be decided on the basis of facilities available in respective schools.The list of approved centres finalised under respective DMs at the district level will be uploaded by the board on its website on January 9. If any student, parent, principal or manager has any objection to the centres proposed, they will be able to e-mail their objections to the board by January 15, 2022. After resolving these objections, the final list of exam centres will be released on January 24, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-board-exams-2022-teams-under-dioss-to-undertake-centres-mapping-101637408005032.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||Row over book: Rizvi slams Owaisi, says he should have read it first||Slamming All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi for lodging a First Information Report (FIR) against him for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through “objectionable” content in his book “Muhammad”, former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi said the Hyderabad MP (Owaisi) should have read the book before lodging the FIR. “My book is about all truth and is based on hidden facts. Owaisi should have first gone through my book that is based on all facts before reacting,” Rizvi said in a video statement he released on Saturday morning.“Through his party, Owaisi is trying to mislead Muslim youths and pushing them further towards terrorism. He is hatching a conspiracy against the non-Muslim community and is planning a bloodshed,” Rizvi alleged in his 34-second statement. On Wednesday (November 17), Owaisi had lodged a complaint against Rizvi and his associates with Kamatipura police station in Hyderabad alleging that “the book written in Hindi uses ‘objectionable language’ against Prophet Muhammad”. The case was registered against Rizvi and his associates under sections 153A (promoting enmity among people on grounds of religion), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), and other sections of the Indian Penal Code based on Owaisi’s complaint.Earlier on November 4, Rizvi released his book at Dasna Delvi temple at Ghaziabad in the presence of Hindutva leader Narsinghanand Saraswati. However, the issue snowballed on November 15 after Rizvi posted the cover page image and buy link of the book on his facebook wall with a note—‘You can easily download e-book Muhammad from here’.
20-11-2021||Lucknow||UP has 43 active Zika cases, 103 cured: CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said while Zika virus infection positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh was falling, the state currently had 43 active Zika virus cases while 103 others had recovered from the disease.He asked the officers concerned to continue tracing, testing, and treating Zika virus cases. Zika virus in humans is a vector-borne disease transmitted by mosquitoes. Considering the winter chill gathering intensity, Yogi asked the state’s revenue and the urban development departments to arrange for night shelters equipped with all necessary paraphernalia and amenities.Talking about Covid vaccination, the chief minister said a total of 4.13 crore people in the state had been fully vaccinated against the Covid-19 infection while 10.46 crore were given their first shot of the vaccine. He further said a total of 14.67 crore Covid vaccine doses had been administered in the state so far. “Further step up Covid vaccination drive in the state,” the CM was quoted as saying at the Covid-19 review meeting according to the statement issued by the state information department. On the status of the Covid infection in the state, he said in the last 24 hours only seven fresh cases were recorded while there were 100 active cases across UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-has-43-active-zika-cases-103-cured-cm-yogi-101637406985079.html
20-11-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru to receive widespread rainfall till November 23 morning: IMD||Bengaluru is unlikely to see any relief from incessant rain yet as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has made a forecast of widespread light-to-moderate rainfall over the southern Indian city for the next two days till November 23 morning, according to news agency ANI.Besides the capital city, the IMD has issued rainfall alerts for south interior Karnataka, north interior Karnataka, Malnad and coastal Karnataka regions till November 21 (Sunday) morning.Regions in south interior Karnataka likely to get rainfall:1.     Chikkaballapura2.     Chamarajanagara3.     Davanagere4.     Tumakuru5.     Chitradurga6.     KolarRegions in north interior Karnataka likely to get rainfall:1.     Ballari2.     Koppala3.     Gadag4.     Haveri5.     Bagalkote6.     Dharwad7.     Belagavi8.     VijayanagaraThe IMD has forecasted widespread very light to moderate rainfall over Hassan and Kodagu districts in the Malnad region. Meanwhile, widespread light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy showers have been predicted over Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts.The weather department has also said that “widespread very light to moderate rains with isolated heavy rainfall” is likely over Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts in the coastal region of the southern state.An orange alert was issued in Bengaluru for Thursday, and heavy rainfall was forecasted till November 21.On Saturday, a yellow alert was issued for Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Bellary, Davanagere, Chitradurga, Chikkamgaluru, Kodagu, Hassan, Shivamogga and Ramanagara by the Met department. A yellow alert was also issued for Haveri, Gadag, Dharwad and Koppala districts in the north interior Karnataka region.In six districts – Chitradurga, Davanagere, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chikkamgaluru and Bellary, the alert will be in place till Sunday morning.The excessive rainfall in Karnataka caused accidents in Mysuru on Wednesday night wherein seven people narrowly escaped after two buildings collapsed. In two other independent rain-related incidents, as many as six people were rescued from a dilapidated building, and an elderly man was rescued from a building that collapsed.The forecast of widespread rain is due to the presence of a low-pressure area over east-central Arabian Sea and a cyclonic circulation over south interior Karnataka and its neighbourhood, according to the latest IMD bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-to-receive-widespread-rainfall-till-november-23-morning-imd-101637406151684.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||QuickShift launches same-day delivery service QS-Rapid in MumbaiPune-based plug-and-play logistics company QuickShift has launched its same-day delivery service QS-Rapid in Mumbai. With QS-Rapid, customers can discover the product on the brand’s website and enter a pin code to check the feasibility of same-day delivery and select the delivery slot as per choice or convenience. Currently operating with 50+ delivery partners, QuickShift plans to add 5x more order volumes in the coming months and ramp up its partner network accordingly.Anshul Goenka, CEO and Co- Founder, QuickShift, said, “We believe the market for same-day delivery is fuelled by underlying macro-trends, including increasing GDP, per capita income, rapid e-commerce adoption, urbanization, and changing consumer expectations. The option of having same-day shipping reduces cart abandonment by close to 25 per cent. Our technology is built end to end where the brands can have a single view over their orders and confirm delivery statuses. The end customers can check notifications and get an enhanced delivery experience. At the back end we have combined WMS + OMS capabilities with Middle Mile (In transit hub Management) and Last Mile (Partner delivery app) for a seamless experience.” Intelsoft to launch fantasy cricket platform IT and gaming solutions provider Integra Telecommunication and Software Limited has formally intimated the BSE that it is close to launching a niche software / game platform, namely ‘Cricket Fantasy’ – the Beta version launch of which is slated for March 2022.The valuations of the new product in the portfolio are expected to be reflected in the first quarter of 2022.The company expects this to be a game changer due to high demand, high potential and high margins in the product offering. This would catapult Intelsoft, a small cap company, into an orbit that would empower it to directly compete with large companies like Nazara whose market capital is ₹8,000 crore.Intelsoft also has plans in the offing to raise ₹50 crore for the development and new product/service marketing purposes to infuse never-before momentum into deeper market penetration. Earlier, the company had approved the proposal to receive investment from Foreign Institutional Investor (FII), and for the upgradation of the company’s product software.CatalyzeX raises $1.64 million to democratise AI for developersCatalyzeX, a startup founded by brothers Gaurav Ragtah and Himanshu Ragtah for building a platform to help developers find the right machine learning techniques, code, and know-how faster, has announced $1.64 million in seed funding from Unshackled Ventures, Darling Ventures, Kepler Ventures, On Deck, Abstraction Capital, Unpopular Ventures, and Basecamp Fund.Angel investors also participating include Anthony Goldbloom (co-founder & CEO of Kaggle, acquired by Google), Joe Fernandez (co-founder & CEO of Klout), Binh Tran (co-founder of Klout), Slava Kovalevskyi, Ilya Kirnos (ex-Google), Michael Shuffett (founder & CEO of Compose AI), Ritesh Malik (founder & CEO of Innov8 acq’d by OYO), and Akshay Chaturvedi (founder & CEO of Leverage Edu).CatalyzeX currently has over 30,000 weekly active users comprising developers, data scientists, and applied researchers from both startups and larger institutions around the world.K&L Wellness Technology raises ₹30 crore fromHealth-tech company K&L Wellness Technology Pvt. Ltd (also known as RESET Tech) has raised a seed round of Rs30 crore from angel investors Vimal Kedia and Surendra Kedia of Manjushree Ventures and Narendra Firodia of Sohamm Group. Founded by serial entrepreneur Karan Talreja and holistic lifestyle coach Luke Coutinho, the company provides therapeutic-based health solutions to lifestyle diseases using natural, sustainable and traditional methods of yoga and meditation.The raised funds will be invested to launch and scale its health tech platform to redefine the lifestyle transformation of the world of wellness through science-led personalised solutions. Karan Talreja, Co-Founder of K&L Wellness Technology said, “We are glad that our investors are aligned with our vision to spread the importance of health care through yoga and meditation. The company will utilise the funds to create a robust wellness technology platform by early next quarter.”Jetking partners with NEAR Protocol for Blockchain Technology courseJetking Infotrain announced its partnership with Near Protocol, for providing an instructor-led one-on-one foundation course on Blockchain technology. This course is based on the industry-driven comprehensive curriculum approved by the National Skills Qualification Framework.The course will be delivered live online by highly trained blockchain experts from the industry and will enable 1 lakh+ students to get access to a free appreciation program of 180 minutes training capsule on Blockchain technology. The free appreciation course contains an introduction to Blockchain and will showcase the future of blockchain in India and how it will help them. Harsh Bharwani, CEO & managing director, Jetking Infotrain, said, “As the market size for Blockchain is rising, it is expected to grow to about $72 billion by 2026. Due to this, we at Jetking see this as a growing trend which will be integrated in all systems and hence, we are creating jobs and opportunities for the economy. Through this partnership with NEAR, we expect to grow and provide jobs in various sectors of work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101637406445609.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: AgriVijay is re-farming the eco-revolution in India||AgriVijay, a Pune-based agritech startup founded by Vimal Panjwani and Shobha Chanchlani, in the midst of the Covid outbreak back in June 2020, has developed a marketplace for renewable energy products connecting farmers and rural households. With a vision focussed on increasing farmer savings and incomes, reducing dependency on fossil fuels such as diesel and firewood, along with contributing to the climate change mitigation, AgriVijay is “empowering farmers for tomorrow” with renewable energy products in solar, biogas, and electricity.In the beginningA BTech in Bioinformatics and with an MBA in Agribusiness Management from Symbiosis Institute of International Business (SIIB) in Pune, Vimal Panjwani never thought that he would have his own startup, that too amidst a Covid-19 outbreak. Panjwani has a decade of experience working in different multinational companies. While he was thinking of switching his role after quitting his job in February 2020, Covid happened and Panjwani was left clueless.Says Panjwani, “I was at home with my mom, Shobha Chanchlani, a retired government employee from Rajasthan, when she said I can’t sit idle at home and want to do something in life. She asked me why I didn’t start my own company instead of building it for others? I was never inclined to become an entrepreneur, but she pushed me to become one. I was passionate for farmers and climate change and renewable energy. She was ready to invest all her funds and we thought let’s work on this.”“I came up with an idea that farmers still struggle to get renewable energy products at the village level – whether you talk about solar, biogas, electric, wind or hydro; farmers don’t have knowledge about the product and they don’t get it at village level. So, we decided why not open a marketplace of renewable energy where we will understand the energy needs of farmers and help them increase savings and income and we will also mitigate the climate change issue which is need of the hour. AgriVijay was born as an idea,” Panjwani said.Lockdown “child”Panjwani wishes that farmers and everybody else in the ecosystem wins. “Vijay, in Hindi, means winning and farmers should feel the connect with our Indian company. Our vision is to make agriculture win with renewable energy. Hence, we named our startup AgriVijay, which was officially registered on June 25, 2020. This journey started from an apartment in Pashan during the Covid-19 lockdown period.”Born and brought up in Ajmer, but settled in Pune, Panjwani had been to Rajasthan in November 2020. Meanwhile, he was working on the business model, idea, pitch deck, marketing. Stuck in Rajasthan due to lockdown, Panjwani launched operations from his hometown. Says Panjwani, “We hired a small team including a field sales executive and decided to utilise local languages to communicate with the farmers to discuss their problems related to energy requirement. We started a call centre through which farmers started reaching out to us. After hearing their problems, we started recommending a renewable energy-based solution which can be a solar, biogas, electric or anything. Our field sales team started meeting farmers to discuss the energy needs with them. So, we decided we need to have two types of models – offline and online.”Renewable energy storesIn the first few days itself Panjwani and his team realised that farmers don’t buy solar water pumps, solar inverters, biogas digesters or electric tractors online. “These are very capital-intensive products and farmers are not so comfortable buying these products online. So, we started our offline model which is called as renewable energy store model, which is at village level. These stores located in villages are opened by the businesses which were impacted by Covid and want a cash flow. Along with the cash business, we actually bring savings for rural community and also earn some income. That’s why this model worked very well. Our first store opened in December 2020 and then we started getting orders for solar pumps, solar inverters, biogas digesters. By the time we came to Maharashtra in February, we had already generated a good amount of business in Rajasthan. We had about 10 renewable energy stores by March 2021,” Panjwani stated.Survival skillsSays Panjwani, “When we started in Maharashtra on April 15, 2021, we were witnessing the second wave and then again lockdown was announced. I think we were born in Covid and the challenge of the lockdown actually aggravated our needs, but made us more resilient. For more than 1.5 months we were locked in home, trying to communicate with farmers and deliver orders and complete the installations.”“When the second lockdown opened, we grew very fast. In Maharashtra we now have 40 renewable stores activated in Maharashtra from June 2021 till date. We have covered the entire Vidarbha region. We have a branch office in Baramati with support of Atal Incubation Centre and Niti Aayog,” Panjwani added. TeamworkAgriVijay has a 15-member team spread across Maharashtra and Rajasthan. With offices in Baramati (Pune) and another one in Jaipur supported by Bajaj Foundation, AgriVijay has recently entered UK with their first international office. “We are joining the global climate change and sustainable development goals movement because we are hiring rural youth and training them to become renewable energy warriors. We are also building small rural businesses at village level as renewable energy stores,” says Panjwani.“We have a field sales and technical team along with the call centre. Availability of renewable energy products only at the urban or semi-urban areas limits the options for the farmers to choose these products and become renewable energy producers. Our renewable energy stores educate farmers and their community about the renewable products and also make them available at village level.”“We also do product recommendations, delivery and installation. We have 25+ companies in solar, biogas and electric as our partners at the head office level which gives us 150+ products range of huge renewable energy products for farmers. All these companies are either startups or other big brands such as Shakti, Toyota,” Panjwani stated.Insurance and EMI AgriVijay has now launched free solar insurance on renewable energy products. “Most of farmers and families were not switching to solar products because they feared that someone might steal the solar panel or natural calamities like heavy rains, sand dunes may damage the panel. Hence, we started giving free solar insurance against theft and damage so that farmers can switch to renewable energy easily with us. We are also launching easy EMI scheme from next month with one reputed NBFC and bank so that poor, small and marginal farmers can buy these products on easy instalments. By next month we will launch the EMI scheme in Baramati and Jaipur for farmers,” adds Panjwani.Everybody winsAgriVijay has touched the lives of 5,000 farmers and their families from Maharashtra and Rajasthan till date, claims Panjwani. “We have onboarded 100 farmers and their families with products such as solar water pumps, solar water heaters, solar inverters, biogas digesters, solar street lights, and we have mitigated thousands of tonnes of GHG and CO2 emissions in just 10 months. We want to open 1,000 renewable energy stores with 10,000 farmers/families. We are not just a marketplace. We are an Agritech social enterprise and we want to remain that. We want to scale our idea and product portfolio across rural regions of India, but at its own pace.”Future plans Says Panjwani, “After we raise our first round of funding, we want to scale our model to other states mainly Gujarat, Telangana, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh where farmers are actually waiting to have an option to increase their savings and income. We also have a plan to open 1,000 renewable energy stores in next five years. We are trying to mitigate at least 100,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. We will soon open small offices and operation points wherever our stores are increasing.”“We are also going to start our B2B department. We will work with CSR departments of companies who are looking to deploy funds or adopt a village or penetrate a renewable energy product in a village or do something with their CSR funds. We will help them make these products available, install and make the village or community savings or incomes increase. We will also add this to our portfolio as a revenue stream,” he added.Challenge from traditional distributors Says Panjwani, “Typically distributors deal with one particular product or technology or company. USP of AgriVijay is that we are multifaceted and the product range is huge. We have solar milk can chillers, solar dryers, biogas gensets, electric tractors, electric two wheelers. We are also adding electric charging stations - the infrastructure for renewable energy. Being multifaceted is why we are getting in direct competition with dealers and distributors at this time.”Does it work?“Earlier, we were paying 15 to 20 thousand on electricity bills for irrigating our vegetable farms. Now we are saving that money. We got a return on our investment on the Solar Water Pump installed by the AgriVijay team in just 1 year. We also got free solar insurance from the team making us feel secure against theft and damage from natural calamities.”- Farmer Shahbuddin, Khanpura village, Rajasthan“I took the AgriVijay franchise after COVID19 second lockdown. I have generated a profit of about ₹20,000 in three months by educating farmers and communities about and selling solar inverters, solar water heaters and pumps.”- Swapnil Chandgude, Renewable Energy Store Owner, Baramati||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-agrivijay-is-re-farming-the-eco-revolution-in-india-101637405785025.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Night club waiter in Pune dies by suicide, abetment case registered||A 26-year-old waiter working at a night club died after jumping from the 13th floor of a building in Maharashtra's Pune. A few people connected with a night club were booked as the police suspected a case of abetment to suicide, a police official said on Saturday.According to police reports, the deceased had jumped off the 13th floor of the building which houses the night club on Wednesday. His kin claimed he was being harassed, the Mundhwa police station official told news agency PTI. "He had joined there just a month ago. His kin has alleged the night club management used to harass him. We registered an abetment of suicide case against some people connected to the night club on Friday," sub-inspector Gajanan Bhosale informed.The restaurant staff was not aware of his problems or his mental condition that led to the extreme step. The police also did not recover any suicide note from his room and belongings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/night-club-waiter-in-pune-dies-by-suicide-abetment-case-registered-101637404143479.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will replicate Bhaini Sahib sports model across Punjab: CM Channi||With the Punjab assembly polls in the offing, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited Bhaini Sahib, where the Namdhari sect hold considerable sway, in Ludhiana on Saturday. Reiterating his government’s commitment to provide state-of-the-art infrastructure to sportspersons, the Punjab chief minister said he will replicate the cost-effective Bhaini Sahib model at block and district levels across the state. “Such model sports grounds would allow players to excel in world-class tournaments such as the Olympics. Officials will soon chalk out a blueprint for developing such AstroTurfs and football grounds in consultation with the management of Bhaini Sahib so that the players can practice in a professional manner as per world standards. There will be no dearth of funds for this purpose.” “The day is not far when Punjab will send the highest number of players for prestigious world-level sports events,” he said. During his maiden visit, Channi met Namdhari sect head Uday Singh, former PPCC chief HS Hanspal and other prominent members of the Namdhari sect. The votes of the Namdhari sect will be crucial in the Sahnewal and Samrala assembly constituencies. The CM was accompanied by Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA Gill and Punjab State Warehouse Corporation chief Kuldeep Singh Vaid.Satguru Uday Singh, who is also head of the Task Force of the ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, discussed the project with Charanjit Singh Channi, who assured him of the state’s support. Among those present on the occasion were senior Congress leaders Satwinder Kaur Bitti, Vikram Singh Bajwa (both ticket aspirants from Sahnewal constituency), deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, additional principal secretary to the CM Jitendra Jorwal, and sub-divisional magistrate Vineet Kumar among others.In November 2017, then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had also visited Bhaini Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-replicate-bhaini-sahib-sports-model-across-punjab-cm-channi-101637403804739.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Sundeep Sharma: Can tell where a joke will land while writing it||Comedians, many a time, face flak over things they end up saying during a performance. However, stand-up comedian Sundeep Sharma says that once he says something, he knows exactly the amount of laughs or controversy it would generate. “Just as Neeraj Chopra knows how far his javelin will go, a comedian also knows where he will land up after saying what he says. It’s a personal call. As a performer, you know how to push boundaries. Everyone at different stages of their career knows what they are saying. As a comedian, I can assume the kind of laughs a joke will get while writing it, and also have a fair idea of where it will land. In India, the more controversy you create, the more tickets you sell,” he states. Sharma hails from Mumbai, but he stayed in Delhi for 12 years at the start of his career. And, performing in Delhi-NCR is like a trip down memory lane. “I stayed in Saket... That Delhi was different. There were so many trees that the road looked like a painting, with sunlight coming through them,” he recalls. Ask him if he has a plan in mind ahead of his performances in Delhi-NCR, and he shares, “Delhi has a lot of college crowd that comes after classes. But, it also has old residents of the city who come to watch my shows. Gurugram, on the other hand, has a younger crowd. But, my content remains the same. There is, of course, a slight bit of change in the interaction with the audience, depending on the situation.”Catch it Live:What: Stand up comedy by Sundeep SharmaWhere: Imperfecto, Ansal Plaza , Barish Moon Bar and Brewery in Noida and Daddy of Tastes (D.O.T) at GurugramWhen: November 20 (Imperfecto, Ansal Plaza), November 21 (Barish Moon Bar and Brewery) and November 27 (Daddy of Tastes) Timings: 4 pm (Imperfecto Ansal Plaza), 7 pm (Barish Moon Bar and Brewery), 5pm (Daddy of Tastes)Nearest Metro station: South Extension station (Imperfecto Ansal Plaza), Noida Sector 18 Metro Station (Barish Moon Bar and Brewery) and HUDA City Centre (Daddy of Tastes)Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sundeep-sharma-can-tell-where-a-joke-will-land-while-writing-it-101637403144417.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Hybrid work the new normal? Delhiites juggle between WFH and WFO||Getting up early in the morning, packing your work bags, setting out on a long commute and making it to the office in just the nick of time... what felt like a normal daily routine once, has become a rare occurrence after a year and a half of battling the pandemic. And as the city comes back to a semblance of normalcy, many workplaces in Delhi-NCR are adopting a hybrid working model, allowing employees to work from home for some days a week and visiting office on the rest. While some are glad to be back, others feel frazzled from this half-and-half system. “I work on hardware and now that Covid-19 cases are less, I am going to work once in two weeks for things that can’t be done sitting at home. But ab aadat nai rahi travel karne ki, so it gets very tiring and then because half my stuff is at home and half is at office, it’s tough to balance. Toh office se vapis aake bhi kaam karna padhta hai,” says Siddharth Verma, a tech professional from Malviya Nagar. And Verma is not the only one who feels tied to work 24*7 in this model. Rahul Bhardwaj, a sales professional who travels from Faridabad to Noida for work, shares, “It takes me one hour in the morning and one hour in the evening in commute. It’s exhausting. Usually at office, the day ends once you step out of the office. But now, in this setup, once you are back home, you are still working as you have your laptop .”And to further add to the difficulties, all employees are not called in at the same time to maintain social distancing. “My work involves physical review of fabric qualities. We work as a team, but if half of people are working from home and half are present at the office, then work never gets done correctly,” says Neha Shukla, a merchandising manager from Paschim Vihar. But for some, going to work is a welcome change. “We all missed our chit-chats with colleagues and the coffee breaks. These fillers keep us going about our schedules,” says Diksha Garg, a CA from CR Park. Aditi Gupta, a Gurugram-based marketing professional, makes the most of the situation by carrying her laptop to work. “I’m happy to go the office as it helps me concentrate. I carry my laptop, so it’s easy to set up workstation wherever I am working from,” she saysAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hybrid-work-the-new-normal-delhiites-juggle-between-wfh-and-wfo-101637402973356.html
20-11-2021||Other||Odisha allows jatra shows with a maximum audience of 2000 people||With daily Covid cases in the range of 200-250 over last week, the Odisha government on Saturday allowed all cultural activities, including jatra and open-air theatres, with a maximum attendance of 2000 people, officials said.In his order, Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said cultural gatherings/programmes including melodies, orchestra/jatra/opera, dances-classical, folk and other permitted dance forms, cultural competitions, open-air theatres/drama/nukkad natak/street plays/other such performances would be allowed to open with due compliance to Covid-19 protocols.Jatras are travelling open-air theatres that are very popular in rural and semi-urban Odisha and perform shows on social issues at night. Over 40000 artists and technicians depend on jatra.However, only 2000 persons would be allowed to attend such shows and will have to maintain a distance of 6 feet from each other. Everyone in the audience will have to wear face masks.Expressing happiness, Daitari Panda, president of Jatra Kalakar Sangh, said, the permission to have 2000 people watch jatra shows is a welcome step to stop the industry from dying. “Though we had permission to organise Jatra with a provision of 500 audiences, it was not enough to revive the industry and the artists,” he said. With jatra troupes unable to hold shows, many artists had taken to selling vegetables, fish and fruits to run their families.The government said the facility for online booking of tickets may be arranged by the organisers and a sufficient number of counters should be opened to prevent crowding during the booking of offline tickets. For indoor halls, the number of viewers/spectators will not exceed 50% of the seating capacity of the hall.The order said cinema halls, theatres would be allowed to open with up to 50% of capacity and operate with due compliance to Covid protocols. In such places, people having two-dose vaccination certificates and Rapid Antigen Test and RT-PCR negative reports obtained within 72 hours prior will be allowed to attend.The government also said vulnerable people such as those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women are not advised to attend the function. Chewing of Gutkha/Paan and spitting at such shows has been prohibited.On Saturday, Odisha reported 239 new Covid cases and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours. Officially, 8391 people have succumbed to Covid. Its highest single day case was reported on May 22 when 12,852 people tested positive.The state government has so far allowed the opening of schools for students studying in classes 6 and above....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-allows-jatra-shows-with-a-maximum-audience-of-2000-people-101637402006812.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||#AadiMahotsav: A celebration of tribal culture, cuisine and creativity||New DelhiPromoting tribal craft, culture and spirit, the annual Tribes India Aadi Mahotsav in the Capital breaks the perception around tribals or adivasis, being primitive forest dwellers and connects them to buyers and adds to their income stream. For Lahaul Spiti-based tribal textile artisan Gulshan Kumar, who has been participating since 2015, the exhibition is a way for generations to continue their crafts. He says, “Coming to the festival adds to our revenue, which also helps in next generations not repelling from our traditional craft.” One among the 1,000 participating craftsmen from over 20 states across India, Kumar exhibits handmade shawls and woollen clothing from the Himalayan region. The exhibition at Dilli Haat, INA sees the sale of vibrant tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabrics and jewellery across 200 stalls. The team of Rajesh Yalam, a Gond tribal from Bastar, Chhattisgarh, is selling local tribal food. “I’ve been visiting [the exhibition] for three years. We are selling mahua tea and laddus, rice alcohol and chapda chutney, made from red ants. Events like these helps the situation back home, as it increases demand and in turn, helps in rozgaar (livelihood),” says Yalam. With the e-commerce revolution, the tribal artisans are also being taught how to use digital payments by Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED). “We have digitised payments for tribal artisans, and have also made their fare available online. There will be a fair price set by TRIFED for each item, so no bargaining occurs with these sellers,” informs Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED. Catch It LiveWhat: Tribes India Aadi Mahotsav 2021Where: Dilli Haat, INA, New DelhiOn till: November 30Timing: 10:30 am - 8 pmNearest Metro Station: Dilli Haat INA on Yellow and Pink LinesAuthor tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aadimahotsav-a-celebration-of-tribal-culture-cuisine-and-creativity-101637401889145.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal | Chitkara University unveils entrepreneurship cell Jazba||Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, on Friday unveiled its entrepreneurship cell, Jazba, under the aegis of the Chitkara University Centre For Entrepreneurship Education and Development (CEED). Jazba hopes to motivate students to become job creators and inculcate leadership qualities in them. Speakers at the entrepreneurship summit included a 16-year-old budding scientist and crypto expert Aryaman Verma; IIT Mandi catalyst programme faculty and head Puran Singh; Learning at Ingenious Faces director Nupur Mahajan; and WYN Studios founder Souniya Khurana.Professor Sumeer Walia, director CEED, Chitkara University, said, “Jazba or passion is very much related to entrepreneurship as risk-taking ability, freedom and creativity are all a part of the process. Moreover, entrepreneurship is about daring personalities who have the passion to walk on the cliff and take risks to build great enterprises, that’s why we named our e-cell as Jazba.”Speaking at the event, Mahajan said, “Such events form an integral part of the career of a student. If a student has experienced global exposure by being an intern in an international start-up, it adds a tremendous amount of confidence and hones the personality and skills.”“Failure is a new qualification that is respected by top employers and podcasting is the future communication methodology where we can leverage the power of audio and turn it into a business,” said Khurana.“Startup is a new way of creating and developing the product and delivering a service in an innovative way. The focus of incubators should be the development of a founder’s mindset and creating founders rather than creating only innovators,” said Puran Singh. Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “Entrepreneurship development has been one of our focus areas. Chitkara University Himachal Pradesh has a successful record of creating some brilliant start-ups such as Chai Nagri, ROBO Champs, SD Academia and many more.”Talking about the future events of JAZBA, Professor Sumeer Walia, director CEED, said, “In December, a huge event ‘Hackday 2021’ will be conducted where teams of students will compete against each other to create problem-solving business ideas using AI-based technologies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-chitkara-university-unveils-entrepreneurship-cell-jazba-101637401165906.html
20-11-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses to interfere with ECI’s decision to exclude Solapur from MLC elections||The Bombay high court has refused to interfere with the decision of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to exclude Solapur local authorities constituency from elections to the Maharashtra legislative council (MLC). Ashpak Balorgi, a councillor of Akkalkot Municipal Council in Solapur district, had moved high court questioning the November 9, 2021 decision of the ECI and sought a direction to the authority to hold elections for the MLC seat from Solapur local authorities constituency. The term of sitting members from seven seats of the Maharashtra legislative council ends on January 1, 2022, but the ECI has decided to hold elections only for Mumbai, Kolhapur, Dhule-Nandurbar, Akola-Buldana-Washim, and Nagpur constituencies The ECI has, however, decided to exclude two seats – Ahmednagar and Solapur local authorities constituencies – for failing to meet the criteria of at least 75% functional electorate. Balorgi moved high court questioning the decision on two counts – first, he contended that the conclusion that Solapur constituency did not meet the criteria of 75% functional electorate was factually incorrect, for five new recently created municipal councils in the district were taken into consideration. He contended that no elections have been held for the new municipal councils and if they were excluded from the zone of consideration, the functional electorate (elected representatives of local bodies) in the constituency would be 82.82%. The contention, however, failed to impress upon the division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar. The bench dismissed Balorgi’s petition on Monday. The bench said once a municipal council is constituted, it is difficult to see how it can be “excluded” from the computation for the purposes of reckoning a number of electors. “Indeed, we perceive a wholesale failure of logic in this argument,” said the bench. HC clarified that if these newly formed councils were to be excluded today, and an election from the Solapur constituency was directed to be held, then, in a few months, when the newly-formed councils have their electors, there will be no possibility of an election to the Solapur constituency, for the election will already have been done — and the newly formed councils would be entirely disenfranchised. Instead, the court said, if Solapur is excluded for the present, then, once the electors for the newly-formed councils are formed, the election process can begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-eci-s-decision-to-exclude-solapur-from-mlc-elections-101637400865607.html
20-11-2021||Other||Bankatwa becomes Bihar’s first block to complete double vaccination in eligible population||East Champaran’s Bankatwa has become Bihar’s first block where the entire eligible target population above 18 years of age have been vaccinated with the double dose against Covid-19, said officials.According to officials, as many as 73,749 people have received the second dose in Bankatwa block as against 52,500 people above the age of 18 who received the first dose in the block. Of those vaccinated, 38,000 were in the 18-45 years of age group and the remaining 35,749 were above 45 years of age.“Apart from Bankatwa, residents of neighbouring blocks namely Chirraiya, Dhaka to name a few were also vaccinated in Bankatwa block and as a result, the number of the second dose inoculation surpassed the first dose of vaccination in our block,” said Dr Ashutosh Kumar, medical officer and in-charge of primary health centre (PHC), Bankatwa.East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said that except for children and non-resident workers, the double dose of vaccine has been administered to all available eligible 18-plus population in Bankatwa block. “This could be possible thanks to the active participation of beneficiaries aided with assistance extended by the state government and efforts taken by our government officials, health workers and UNICEF,” said district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok.Ashok said that the district administration is keeping an eye on workers and other non-residents of Bankatwa block. “They will be administered the same if remained to be inoculated yet. Of lately, we ran a special drive which benefitted a large number of non-residents in the course of their stay in native places during festive occasions,” said the district magistrate.When asked if Bankatwa is Bihar’s first block to achieve this feat, DM’s said, “It could well be but anything can precisely be said only after confirmation from authorities concerned at the state headquarters.”When contacted, Pratyaya Amrit, additional chief secretary, health, Bihar described it as a stupendous effort and complimented the efforts. “There isn’t any reason to disagree with what DM (East Champaran) says. If it is so, Bankatwa is Bihar’s first block to achieve it. It’s great teamwork... The people of Bankatwa have set a model for other blocks of Bihar to follow,” said the additional chief secretary.Located in East Champaran’s Sikarahana subdivision with ten panchayats, 27 revenue villages and 131 Anganwadi centres and having a population of 1,16863 as per 2011 census, Bankatwa sought limelight in June this year after it became Bihar’s first block where entire eligible inhabitants above 18 years of age were vaccinated with the first dose against Covid-19 as well.Munendra Kumar, block mobiliser coordinator (BMC) of UNICEF, Bankatwa, described the biggest challenge to alert the beneficiaries. “Unlike the vaccination for the first dose, the alleged misgivings about the vaccines were not there. But then we had to alert the beneficiaries for their second dose. However, we had to give many reminders in some cases,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bankatwa-becomes-bihar-s-first-block-to-complete-double-vaccination-in-eligible-population-101637400325889.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Despite nod, no Friday prayers offered at Gurugram Gurdwaras on Gurupurab||A day after the Gurudwara Singh Sabha Committee of Gurugram announced that it was opening its doors to the Muslim community for them to offer Friday Namaz at its premises, Friday prayers were not offered at any Gurudwara in the Millennium city.The Committee in a statement on Friday stated that due to the Gurupurab celebrations, Muslims themselves refused to offer Friday Namaz to avoid any conflict.A final decision on the same would be taken next week, said the Committee.Speaking to ANI over the matter, the spokesperson of the Gurudwara management committee, Daya Singh said, "Committee had decided to offer space for Nawaz if Muslims were facing problems; will let them offer Namaz here. Due to Gurupurb, the Muslims themselves refused to offer Namaz to avoid any conflict. We will take the final decision on Namaz next week.""Why there is an issue in offering Namaz in public or open space when we can take out Kanwar Yatra or Nagar Kirtan. In the 1984 riots, Muslims gave a message of brotherhood by saving the lives of thousands of Sikhs," he added.Meanwhile, a local resident Lakhiram Yeduvanshi has offered his land to perform Namaz."I contacted the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch in order to offer them land to offer Namaz. There are some miscreants who want to disturb the peace in the area. I am offering my plot to the Muslim brothers to perform Namaz," said Yeduvanshi.Earlier on November 18, the Gurdwara association of Sadar Bazar in Gurugram had decided to offer its premises for Friday prayers following objections over the offering of namaz in public and open places.The Gurugram administration had withdrawn permission to offer namaz at eight out of 37 designated sites.As per an official statement from the district administration, the permission was cancelled after an objection from the local people and Resident Welfare Association (RWA).On several occasions earlier, residents of Gurugram have complained and staged a protest against Friday namaz offered at a public ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/despite-nod-no-friday-prayers-offered-at-gurugram-gurudwaras-on-gurupurab-101637398978884.html
20-11-2021||Other||65-yr-old declared foreigner in Assam dies before last chance to prove Indian identity||A 65-year-old tea garden worker, Sukdev Ree of Assam’s Hailakandi district, was declared a foreigner and served imprisonment for three years. On November 3, Gauhati High Court found the Foreigners Tribunal’s order incomplete and asked the Hailakandi foreigner’s tribunal (FT) to hear the case again on December 3, 2021. Ree died on Friday evening due to a cardiac arrest. His last wish was to prove his Indian identity which remained unfulfilled.In December last year, 104-year-old Chandradhar Das died with a similar unfulfilled wish. Das, who migrated to India from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) in 1956, used to say, “I won’t die before I prove my identity.”Sukdev Ree was a resident of the Mohanpur village under Algapur assembly constituency in Hailakandi district. He was released from the detention camp on February 26, last year based on a supreme court’s advisory to release the inmates who have served imprisonment of two years or more. A daily wage earner, Ree used to earn ₹110 per day whenever there was production going on in the tea estate. A case was registered against him in 2012 and he appeared before the court a few times before his arrest on June 24, 2016.Tribunal Court declared Sukdev Ree a foreigner of post 25.03.1971 stream in an ex-parte judgement because he did not appear at the time of cross-examination on several occasions. The court said, “The petitioner failed to discharge the burden cast upon him under Section 9 of the Foreigners Act, 1946.”Recently, this order was challenged by Ree’s lawyer in Gauhati High Court. Justice Kotiswar Singh and justice Malashri Nandi after hearing a petition to reopen Sukdev Ree’s case on November 3 found that Ree deserved another chance to produce his documents.They wrote to the FT Hailakandi, “Considering the nature of the case and after hearing, we are of the view that the petitioner has furnished documents before the Tribunal to claim that he is an Indian. Documents including voters lists of 1966 and 1970 in which the name of his father appeared and subsequent the voters lists of 1977 and 2005 where the name of the petitioner appeared. Accordingly, it has been submitted that the petitioner has sufficient evidence. Considering the circumstances, we are of the opinion that another opportunity may be granted to the petitioner to prove that he is an Indian citizen and not a foreigner.”“It is made clear that if the petitioner fails to appear before the foreigner’s tribunal, Hailakandi on 03.12.2021, the earlier order passed by the learned foreigner’s tribunal on 20.04.2016 will stand revived and the order passed by this Court today will stand vacated and law will take its course,” the order further states.Sukdev Ree’s wife Sishubala expressed that at one point, her husband refused to appear before the court due to the harrasment by the lawyers.“After getting a notice from Tribunal Court, we met a lawyer. But he kept asking for money – sometimes ₹2,000- ₹3000 or more. We took loans and paid the lawyer but after a point, we just gave up as we did not have enough money to fight the legal battle. We have kids to feed instead. We didn’t realise that he’ll be arrested,” she said.According to Dhonu Ree (35), the eldest son of Sukdev Ree, his father didn’t want to challenge the court’s order even after coming out from detention camp.“My father lost hope when few social activists came forward. Recently, when he heard about a fresh change to prove his identity, he started preparing. He was so excited and used to say that he’ll fight again. He won’t leave a legacy for his kids that their father was a Bangladeshi. His dream remained unfulfilled,” Dhonu said.Dhonu also informed that they’ll appear before FT-3 of Hailakandi on December 3, with all documents of Sukdev Ree, so that he becomes an Indian even after his death.Social activist Kamal Chakraborty, who fought for Sukdev Ree’s bail last year, informed that Sukdev’s father’s name is Dhiraj Bauri and his grandfather’s name is Monu Bauri.“When Sukdev Ree’s father’s name got changed from Dhiraj Bauri to Dhiraj Ree during voters list updating process, they had no clue. Someone like Sukdev Ree, who is an original inhabitant of Assam and has got nothing to do with Bangladesh, had to live as a foreigner unless he appealed at High Court.”“Supreme Court says, Tea Garden Tribes fall under Original Inhabitants of Assam category in respect to The Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and issues of National Identity Card) Rules 2003, under clause 3(3). I am surprised how the tribunal court declared Sukdev Ree a foreigner,” Chakraborty added.Sukdev Ree fell unconscious on Friday afternoon and was taken to a local government hospital. After an initial medical checkup, he was sent back home. In the evening around 6:30 pm his health deteriorated and family members called a local doctor. The doctor visited his house and declared him dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yrold-declared-foreigner-in-assam-dies-before-last-chance-to-prove-indian-identity-101637399064378.html
20-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP's Tathagata Roy bids 'farewell' to party's West Bengal unit for time being||Senior BJP leader Tathagata Roy, who has been lashing out at the party's West Bengal leadership since the assembly poll debacle, on Saturday said he has decided to bid "farewell” to the state unit of the saffron camp for the time being, apparently indicating that he would stop criticism of its leaders.Roy said he would wait to see the municipal poll results in Bengal. According to sources close to him, the term “farewell” doesn’t mean that he is leaving the party. Roy was trying to say that he would stop attacking the state leadership for the time being as his criticism led to an embarrassment to the party, the sources said. Earlier this week, the former governor of Meghalaya had said the party would become extinct if the state unit did not mend its ways. "I was not writing on Twitter to get applause from people. I was doing this to make the party aware of the fact that some leaders got swayed by women and wealth. Now only results will speak. I will wait for the results of the municipal polls. Farewell, for now, West Bengal BJP!” Roy said on the microblogging site on Saturday. State BJP leaders declined to comment on the development. "BJP’s well-wishers pointed out that I should make complaints about money and women within the party and not publicly. I politely tell them that the time has passed. The BJP can do whatever it wants to me. But if they do not radically reform their way of functioning, the extinction of the party in West Bengal is inevitable," Roy tweeted earlier this week. Roy had asserted that he would continue to play the role of his party's "conscience-keeper" after BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh told him that he was free to leave the camp if he was "upset and ashamed" over its style of functioning. Roy had recently been critical of the decisions taken by BJP's West Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Ghosh, and senior leaders Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, ahead of March-April assembly polls, and blamed them in a series of tweets for the saffron camp's poor show in the last assembly elections. The BJP won only 77 seats of the 294-member West Bengal assembly in the last elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-tathagata-roy-bids-farewell-to-party-s-west-bengal-unit-for-time-being-101637397959221.html
20-11-2021||Other||Videographer killed during celebratory firing in Rohtas||A videographer was shot dead during a celebratory firing in a marriage function at Kadawa village under Nokha police station limits of Rohtas district in Bihar on Friday late night, police said.The deceased was identified as Ravi Kant Singh, 28, of Masauna village under nearby Sanjhauli police station. He was hired by the groom’s side for videography of a marriage ceremony, police said.“We have inspected the video camera and smartphone of the deceased to locate the accused. Family members of the deceased would also register a murder case after postmortem examination and cremation,” Nokha station house officer, Rajesh Kumar said.There was Tilak (a pre-marriage function) of the younger brother of gas agency owner Brajesh Kumar Mishra on Friday night. The celebratory firing started at about 9 pm when the bride and her family reached the venue of the function.One stray bullet hit the videographer on the chest and he died on the spot, the officials added. The deceased’s father, Ajay Kumar Singh, was called by police and the body was sent for post mortem examination on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/videographer-killed-during-celebratory-firing-in-rohtas-101637396424656.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Odd-even rule to return in Delhi? What we know so far||With no relief from air pollution, Delhi government may bring back its ‘odd-even’ rule for vehicular traffic, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Saturday. Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital has already asked commuters to get colour-coded fuel stickers for their vehicles, Livehindustan further said.This comes days after Delhi's environment minister Gopal Rai told news agency Reuters in an interview, "If air pollution levels stay high, we will look at new measures like the odd-even (vehicle) system."The odd-even system of the Delhi government allows private vehicles to be driven only on alternating days, depending on the last digit of their number plate.The chromium-based hologram fuel stickers – blue for petrol or CNG and orange for diesel – were mandated by the Supreme Court and under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for all vehicles registered in the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi, read a notice issued by the Transport department on Friday."The owners of old vehicles are advised to approach dealers concerned for affixing Chromium based hologram stickers on the windshield of their vehicles depending on the relevant class of fuel," the notice stated.The rule was implemented especially for vehicles registered prior to April 2019 that did not come with these stickers. The colour-coded stickers help enforcement personnel easily identify the fuel type of a vehicle during checks on the roads.Those who commute in their vehicles without the sticker are liable to a fine of ₹10,000, compoundable to ₹5,500 for the offence."We are only increasing awareness about these stickers and no enforcement drive is planned in near future," a transport department officer told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oddeven-rule-to-return-in-delhi-what-we-know-so-far-101637386740733.html
20-11-2021||Jaipur||‘Centre should decide soon on need of booster dose’: Gehlot||Emphasizing the need for Covid-19 booster dose, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said a letter will be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to permit booster dose. He said it is learnt that booster doses are being administered in about 35 countries of the world. In such a situation, it is necessary for the Central government to take appropriate decisions regarding the need for booster doses and issue guidelines to the states to save the people from the third wave. The state health department will be conducting its own serosurvey to assess the need for vaccines booster doses. Under the survey, over 16,800 samples from 14 districts will be collected to assess the immunity of the people who have been administered with the first, second or no dose of the vaccine. Gehlot expressed his concern over the increase in the number of corona positive cases in some districts of the state in the last few days. He said that in view of the experiences of the second wave and the nature of this virus, the strategy of re-testing, tracking and tracing should be implemented strongly. He said that it is necessary to stop the infection at the primary level so that the people of the state can be saved from the third wave. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation and that of seasonal diseases on Friday, he said that sampling should be increased across the state. Principal of SMS Medical College, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, said that after vaccination, serosurvey is being done to check the immunity in people, in which frontline workers, health care workers and the general public have been included. The purpose of the survey is to measure the immunity level in the general population and health care workers, find out monthly changing trend of immune response for 12 months, compare immunity level in vaccinated non-diseased, vaccinated and diseased, non-vaccinated without disease and non-vaccinated with disease persons in the general population and compare immunity level. Bhandari said the study will help in the prediction of the risk of further outbreaks/COVID wave and the need for a booster dose of vaccines. After three-month, Rajasthan reported a death due to Covid-19 in Jaipur district on Thursday. The state reported 18 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 95. As many as 12 cases were found in Jaipur, followed by 4 in Ajmer and one each in Baran and Pali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/centre-should-decide-soon-on-need-of-booster-dose-gehlot-101637388083819.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' category, may improve tomorrow||Delhi's air quality continues to remain in the “very poor” category for the seventh consecutive day on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR), as the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) rose to 355 from 332 on Friday.Authorities have said that the air quality in Delhi is likely to improve "significantly" from Sunday owing to relatively strong winds and reach "poor category".The AQI in neighbouring Ghaziabad (342), Gurgaon (340) and Noida (363) was also in the “very poor” category.Also read | Despite reduced fire counts, air in Noida and Ghaziabad remains ‘very poor’Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality in the national capital remained in the “very poor” category on Friday with AQI in the evening being recorded at 381.Neighbouring areas like Faridabad (354), Ghaziabad (372), Greater Noida (388), Gurugram (345) and Noida (385) also recorded air quality index (AQI) in the “very poor” category.Also read | Delhi air may improve as wind speed picks up: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.The Delhi government on Wednesday issued 10 emergency measures, including a ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in the city and closure of schools and colleges till further orders, in order to tackle air pollution.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that there will be 100 per cent work from home for the government departments till November 21. Rai said that schools and other educational institutes will remain closed in the national capital until further orders and construction and demolition work has also been banned till November 21 in Delhi.Also read | 'Shot of smoke for Delhi': Nasa photo shows how farm fires added to pollution"We have given instructions for a ban on the entry of all vehicles in Delhi, except those involved in essential services. The police department and the transport department will ensure this together,” Rai told reporters after a high-level meeting for strict implementation of the suggestions of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).The AQI stood in the “very poor” category on Thursday as well. On Tuesday, Delhi's AQI slipped into the “severe” category in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-in-very-poor-category-may-improve-tomorrow-101637384673732.html
20-11-2021||Bhopal||MP govt plans to impose surcharge on liquor, others services to fund cow welfare||The Madhya Pradesh government is planning to impose a surcharge on products such as liquor and services provided by local bodies to generate ₹100 crore to meet the expenses of running cow shelters in the state, a senior finance department official said on Friday, after meeting of Gau Samvardhan Board with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan a day before.The official said a decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of Gau Samvardhan Board Thursday in Bhopal after the efforts to get donations evoked lukewarm response from people and the revenue for cow protection from Mandi Board had declined due to the implementation of new farm laws in 2020.Although Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the three farm laws would be repealed, the state government officials provided no clarity on whether the sale and purchase of agricultural produce in designated markets would resume.“The (Gau Samvardhan) board needs ₹160 crores to feed 2.6 lakh cows living in 1,300 cow shelters. But, the budget provided is ₹60 crore. So, every day per cow expenditure needed is ₹20 as against provided ₹6 per day. In the meeting, which was chaired by Chouhan, the discussion was held on generating funds only,” said a senior officer of the animal husbandry department, who did not wish to be named. According to JN Kansotiya, additional chief secretary, Animal Husbandry department, the CM directed officers to impose some welfare surcharge on products and services to generate income for cow welfare and protection scheme to resolve the issue of financial crises. He added that the finance and commercial tax department have been asked to prepare a proposal.A senior officer of the finance department, not willing to be named as he was not authorised to speak to media, said, “We can’t impose any additional tax on the products and services which are already covered under GST. We are left with two options - imposing a surcharge on alcohol used for human consumption and petroleum product. As the prices of fuel are already high, we are focusing on imposing a tax on liquor, electricity and services provided by the municipal bodies.” The plan will be finalised soon and it will be approved by Gau (cow) cabinet which was formed last year for deciding for welfare and protection of cows, the officer said. State finance minister Jagdish Devda said, “The state government is planning to impose an additional duty for welfare and protection of cows. But at the same time, we don’t want to put an extra burden on common people so the decision will be finalized by the cabinet soon.” Earlier, then chief minister Kamal Nath had also proposed to impose cow cess in October 2019 but after he resigned in March 2020, the proposal took a back seat. The opposition Congress attacked the state government for spending money on events and putting an extra burden on the people by imposing a tax to run welfare activities. “BJP-led state government is spending crore of rupees to organise events like they recently did on Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas but they have no money to feed cows. The state government wants to run all the welfare schemes by imposing the tax on common people. Even the money collected from the tax will be spent on organising events of cow protection not on cow welfare,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, MP Congress committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-plans-to-impose-surcharge-on-liquor-others-services-to-fund-cow-welfare-101637385083917.html
20-11-2021||Ranchi||Rail track blown in Jharkhand’s Latehar, Maoists-link suspected||The railway track on the Tori-Latehar section in Dhanbad division was allegedly blown in a bomb blast on Friday midnight affecting rail traffic, officials said Friday morning. The incident came hours ahead of Bharat Bandh called by the outlawed CPI (Maoists) on November 20 to protest the arrest of their top ideologue Prashant Bose and his wife and central committee member Sheela Marandi by Jharkhand Police last week. “Rail tracks on both up and down line have been damaged in the alleged bomb blast at around 12.40 am. The matter is being investigated. Keeping passengers’ safety in mind, two passenger trains have been cancelled while a few others have been diverted,” said Rajesh Kumar, spokesperson, East Central Railway. The official said a relief van has reached the spot from Barkakana and work is in progress to restore traffic at the earliest, he added. Latehar superintendent of police Anjani Anjan said the incident seems to be of an IED blast. “Prima facie it looks like an IED blast. The damage is restricted to the rail tracks. The police are on high alert in wake of the Bandh call. We are investigating the case further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/rail-track-blown-in-jharkhand-s-latehar-maoists-link-suspected-101637383403925.html
20-11-2021||Jaipur||4.6 magnitude earthquake hits Rajasthan's Jalore||An earthquake with a magnitude of 4.6 on the Richter Scale shook Rajasthan's Jalore in the middle of the night on Saturday, according to National Centre for Seismology.The agency for monitoring seismic activity in the country said that an earthquake of 4.6-magnitude occurred at 2.26am south-southwest of Jodhpur."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.6, Occurred on 20-11-2021, 02:26:17 IST, Lat: 25.03 & Long: 72.35, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 150km SSW of Jodhpur, Rajasthan," tweeted National Center for Seismology.No casualties have been reported so far.On Thursday, tremors were felt in Jodhpur at around 3.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/46-magnitude-earthquake-hits-rajasthan-s-jalore-101637365416240.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Despite PM Modi’s assurance, farmers refuse to call off protest at Ladowal Toll Plaza||Despite the Prime Minister announcing the revocation of the three farm laws, almost a year after their passage triggered widespread farmers’ protests, the farmers protesting at the Ladowal Toll Plaza have refused to vacate the spot.While the farmers’ protests were primarily concentrated on the Singhu border, the protest at the Ladowal Toll Plaza, also came to gain significance as farmers blocked the Panipat-Jalandhar Toll demanding revocation of the controversial farm laws that were enacted on September 17.Farmers, who have been living in temporary huts at the Ladowal Toll Plaza for almost a year, say they would end their protest after all the contentious farm laws, including the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmer’s (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement Of Price Assurance And Farm Service Bill, 2020, and The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, are officially withdrawn in the winter session of the Parliament.‘Pained that we had to lose 700 farmers’“This is the best gift we could have expected on Gurpurab, but we are also pained as over 700 farmers were martyred in our battle against the arrogant Central government. For now, we will continue to hold fort here till the laws are officially withdrawn,” said Boota Singh Shadipur of the Kirti Kisan Union. Pardeep Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said the protest will continue until the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is an umbrella body of farmer unions, calls off the protest. “Many farmers have been protesting against the controversial farmers’ laws for a year. A few lost their family members, but that did not deter their spirit. The government could have taken the step earlier when our leaders invited them for talks. Meanwhile, we lost hundreds of farmers. Now, we want everything in writing before we end our protest here”, said Pardeep.Commuters congratulate farmers Commuters, including truck drivers, police men and passersby, stopped at the Ladowal protest site to hug and congratulate the farmers for their landmark victory.“We are not distributing sweets yet but we will do that once the laws are slashed in the parliament. We are happy that the Guru has blessed the Prime Minister with better sense and humanity”, said Surender Kumar, a farmer at the Ladowal toll site.Ram Kumar, a truck driver said that many people including beggars would eat food at the Ladowal site. All sections cheer The urban population, which has also been supporting the farmers’ agitation, were also seen cheering for the farmers. Restauranteur Sukhkaran Gill, who is member of a biker group that has been holding rallies in support of farmers, said though it is a politically motivated move, it is a victory for farmers. “We have been supporting the agitation as implementation of these laws would have impacted the urban population too. Corporate houses would have taken over the markets and there would have been no place for small traders and businessmen.” A transporter, Jagdish Singh said that the economy of the state depends on the farming sector and it was necessary to support the farmers in their fight against the Union government. “The government should repeal the farm laws at the earliest so that the farmers, who have been protesting for over a year can return to their houses safely. Over 700 farmers have already died during the agitation and the Union government is responsible for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-pm-modi-s-assurance-farmers-refuse-to-call-off-protest-at-ladowal-toll-plaza-101637361192841.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day after arrest, drug peddling accused escapes from court complex in Ludhiana||A day after his arrest, a man accused of drug peddling escaped from police custody at the new court complex on Thursday. The accused, Sukhraj Singh of Dongra village, and two others had been arrested with 9g heroin, 53 empty sachets, and an electronic weighing machine on November 17, said assistant sub-inspector Jivan Singh of the Dehlon police station. On Thursday, when the accused was brought to the court complex for hearing, Sukhraj pushed constable Darshan Singh and fled. The cops chased him, but to no avail. ASI Sukhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful appre­hension) of the Indian Penal Code at the Division-5 police station. A hunt is on for his arrest.Deja vu This is the second such case to be reported in the last three days. On November 15, an alleged serial killer had tried to escape from the court complex. He had beaten up and torn the constable’s uniform, but he was apprehended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-arrest-drug-peddling-accused-escapes-from-court-complex-in-ludhiana-101637360832787.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws repealed: Ludhiana industry anticipates boost in business, investment||Ludhiana: Not just farmers, even the local industry, which suffered losses due to frequent disturbances, dip in sales and increased transport costs due to farmer agitations on the Delhi border, has reason to celebrating the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.With an end to the agitation finally in sight, industrialists are hoping that peace in the state will boost investment and business as investers and customers from outside the state will be able to visit the industrial hub without any fear.An industrialist, requesting anonymity, said, “Our transport costs had increased as drivers had to take detours due the farmers’ protest on the Delhi border. Frequent ‘bandhs’, and ‘rail roko’ agitations were also a setback for businesses that were already suffering due to the pandemic.”All Industries And Trade Forum president Badish Jindal said, “This will also improve the relationship between the state and Union government, which is good for the economy. International and domestic buyers will now be able to reach the state without fearing disturbances. Demand in the local markets will also increase, as farmers had curtailed the purchase of non-essential items amid the ongoing agitation.”Knitwear And Textile Club president Vinod Thapar said, “At least 50% of our business comes from traders in New Delhi and thus, our business was severely hit as the cost of transportation and raw materials increased.”Urging farmers to call off the protest, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said, “A few persons with vested interests are now provoking farmers to wait till the laws are repealed. The PM has assured that the laws will be repealed, and the farmers should accept his word and end the agitation.”Even traders were relieved, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal president Arvinder Makkar said, “The farmers had postponed the weddings of their children and have also stopped purchasing non-essential products. This had a major impact on the market. Now, hopefully, things will go back to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-repealed-ludhiana-industry-anticipates-boost-in-business-investment-101637360532808.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws repealed | A silver lining appears for out-of-work toll plaza staff||For the toll plaza workers of Punjab and Haryana, who had been rendered jobless after the agitating farmers laid siege to their work stations, a silver lining is finally in sight, now that the Prime Minister has agreed to annul the contentious farm laws. The enactment of the three farm laws had led to widespread protests, with the agitating farmers capturing toll booths in the region . Out-of-work staffers are hopeful that once the farmers call off their protracted protest, they will be reinstated. Shekhar, who has worked at the Ladowal toll plaza, says over 100 staffers worked at the toll plaza in three shifts – 8am to 4pm, 4pm to midnight and midnight to 8 am – before the farmers captured the booth. “Now, around four to five people of the cleaning and security departments work at the plaza. Many people were not given salaries as the company managing the toll for the National Highway Authority of India did not earn anything,” he said, adding, that their manager had also been fired. “Though workers were paid only ₹10,000- ₹12,000, but at least they were making a living. As the farmers will call of their protest in all likelihood, toll plaza operations will get back on track and the staff will be reinstated. The project manager of the private company managing security at the Ladowal toll plaza , Krishna, said that no notification had been received so far regarding the resumption of normal operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-repealed-a-silver-lining-appears-for-out-of-work-toll-plaza-staff-101637360232842.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked on charge of sexual harassment||A resident of Pritam Vihar, Bhamian Kalan, has been booked on the charge of sexually harassing a 21-year-old nursing student.The victim told the police that the man concealed his identity to befriend her. After she snapped all ties with him after knowing his name, the accused threatened to throw acid at her. He also abducted and molested her. After she informed her parents, the accused fled after dropping her near Subhash Nagar.The accused has been identified as Mohammad Raj of Pritam Vihar of Bhamian Kalan. He is on the run.The victim, who is a resident of Bhamian Kalan, said she is a nursing student. Two years ago, she had met the accused during computer classes. The accused had introduced himself as Raj.Later, after she realised that he was a Muslim and had concealed his identity, she stopped talking to him.The girl alleged that the accused threatened to kill her and her family.She added that on Thursday the accused and his brother intercepted her near Veer Palace on the Chandigarh road. He asked her to come with him and on resisting, threatened to throw acid at her after which she sat on his motorcycle.“The accused molested me near the railway station and forced me to make a call to my father saying I want to live with Mohammad Raj. I made a call to my father but informed him that he had abducted me. He started threatening me and took me to Subhash Nagar and dropped me and fled,” said the victim.ASI Dalbir Singh said a case under Sections 323(voluntarily causing hurt) 354 (assaults or using criminal force to any woman), 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354-D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC had been registered against the accused at the Jamalpur police station. A hunt is on to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-on-charge-of-sexual-harassment-101637359872662.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 3 teens held for murder bid on classmate||Three teenagers have been arrested for carrying out a murder bid on their classmate on Thursday. The police have arrested Gurashish of New Suhash Nagar, Hritik Khatri of Swaran Park and another minor accomplice. However, 15 others were also involved in the assault. The victim, Rajveer Chahal, 18, of New Shastri Nagar, a Class-12 student, said, he had gone to the Hosiery Complex, Guru Vihar, to resolve the differences between his friend, Vansh, and, Gurashish. The two had had a spat over a girl the previous day. However, when they reached there they saw that the accused had sharp-edged weapons and baseball bats. Chahal suffered a head injury during the assault and was taken to the hospital by Vansh. Assistant sub-inspector Gurjit Singh said Vansh had also suffered minor injuries in the attack. A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (grievous hurt ), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting), and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. Two Samrala residents held for murder bid on friend Five days after two men shot their friend and left him injured in Lopon village in Samrala, the police arrested the accused on Thursday.The accused, Navpreet Singh and Amritpal Singh, are residents of Lopon village. The victim, Harpreet Singh, suffered a damaged jaw in the attack as the bullet hurt his cheek. In a written statement, Harpreet Singh, said the accused were his friends and frequently visited his house. On Saturday, they were making small talk when the accused asked him for money. When he expressed his inability to arrange the money, they threatened to shoot him. Harpreet took it in a light vein, assuming that they were joking. However, the accused actually whipped out a gun and opened fire, injuring him.Station house officer inspector Parkash Masih said a case had been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The weapon used to commit the crime is yet to be found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-teens-held-for-murder-bid-on-classmate-101637359632649.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Police lodge FIR after rape victim takes to social media||A medical store owner was booked for rape after a 30-year-old woman took to social media to narrate her ordeal. The woman claimed that she had taken ill in April this year. Due to her poor financial condition, she had to request the accused, a medical store owner, to give her medicines on credit. One day when she was alone at home, he turned up and injected some sedatives. After she lost consciousness, he allegedly raped her and also captured objectionable pictures and videos of her. Later, he started blackmailing her to establish physical relations with him. When she told him that she had got pregnant, the accused allegedly told her to “send her 12-year-old daughter” to him. The woman said she approached the Moti Nagar police to lodge a case but a cop told her to “take money from the accused and settle the issue”.Distraught, she took to the social media to bring the accused to book. As the video started circulating on social media, the Moti Nagar Police lodged an FIR against the accused. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Sulakhan Singh refuted allegations leveled by the woman against the police. He said the woman filed a complaint on Tuesday, but asked them to go slow on the action as she wanted to discuss it with her family members. She did not turn up at the police station again, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-lodge-fir-after-rape-victim-takes-to-social-media-101637358372734.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Atal Apartments scheme relaunched on Gurpurab||After dropping the scheme twice in the last 10 years, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has relaunched the Atal Apartments scheme where 576 HIG and MIG flats will be established on 8.8 acres at Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar on the Pakhowal road.The self-financing scheme has been opened for the public on Gurpurab on Friday and residents can apply for flats till December 18 by submitting an application along with the earnest money. Of the total 576 flats, 336 are HIG and 240 are MIG flats.As per LIT officials, the facilities being provided under the scheme include earthquake-resistant structures, separate parks, video door phones at each flat, indoor swimming pool, multipurpose hall, gymnasium, parking space etc. It is a Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA)-approved scheme.The cost of the HIG flat will be ₹48 lakh, while the MIG flat will cost ₹37.40 lakh and residents will have to submit earnest money of ₹2.4 lakh and ₹1.87 lakh, respectively, along with the application form. Twenty-five per cent of the amount has to be submitted within 45 days after a draw of lots and the rest in six equal instalments along with 9.5% interest. A certain discount will be offered if the entire amount is submitted at once.The application form can be availed from the LIT office in the Feroze Gandhi market on working days or through LIT official website www.ludhianaimprovementtrust.org for ₹500, which is non-refundable. The draw of lots will be conducted on December 24 and the results will be out by December 25.The officials stated that the project will be completed in three years after the allotment of contract. Earlier, the department had proposed to allot 50% flats through a draw of lots and the rest through auction, but the criteria have been changed and all the flats will be allotted through draw of lots.Chairman of LIT Raman Balasubramaniam said, “Quality infrastructure will be provided to the residents and they should take the benefit of the opportunity. The project will be established within the MC limits. The online form will be uploaded in a day or so and residents can also avail the application form from the LIT office.”The Atal Apartment scheme was initially launched in 2011 when then local bodies minister Tikshan Sood laid the foundation stone for the project. The department had even allotted flats to many persons, but the scheme was cancelled after the allottees failed to submit the amount due to high prices in 2017. The scheme was relaunched in 2018 and applications were also sought from the residents along with the earnest money, but it was again dumped in 2020. The funds were returned to the residents.Proposal to change scheme’s name droppedAfter facing ire over the proposal to change the name of the scheme to Sahir Ludhianvi Apartments, LIT has dropped the proposal and will continue with the Atal Apartments. Earlier, the BJP had opposed the proposal to change the name terming it as a political vendetta. The LIT chairman, however, said the proposal had been dropped as they had to follow a long process to change the name and the scheme would have been delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-atal-apartments-scheme-relaunched-on-gurpurab-101637358012631.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Daughter of Jalandhar farmer who died during R-Day tractor rally couldn’t handle shock||Bhupinder Singh, 52, who owned 1-acre land at Doaba Bolena village in Jalandhar district, was regularly attending the farmer protests at the Singhu border since November 26 last year. Last time, he went to Delhi on January 23 to attend the Republic Day tractor parade along with his nephews but died on January 26 due to cardiac arrest. Bhupinder is survived by his wife and three children. His son Hardeep Singh, who got a job of peon in the state agriculture department, said that his father was even encouraged the fellow villagers to participate in the protests. Hardeep said his elder sister Amanjot couldn’t handle the shock of their father’s death and went into depression. “She suffered brain haemorrhage attack and died on March 26. We have got compensation from the government but we are facing problems over electricity bills. It is a great news that the Centre has announced to repeal the 3 laws and the “sacrifice” of his father and sister did not go in vain,” he added. ‘For my father, protest was a fight for survival’Baldev Singh, a 63-year-old farm labourer from Dadwindi village in Kapurthala district, had been visiting the Singhu border along with his fellow villagers since November 26 last year. His son Jagdeep Singh said, “He would say that the protest was a fight for the survival not only of labourers and farmers, but the entire society.” He used to work on farmland on a daily basis while Jagdeep does a private job. Baldev, who went to Singhu in the first week of March with a group, rushed to rescue passengers from a car that had fell into sewer at the protest site. Soon after, he suffered heart attack and died on March 9. Baldev is survived by his wife besides son Jagdeep who got a government job and compensation. The family doesn’t own any land. Jagdeep said that had his father been alive, he would have been happy to see as the government agreed to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daughter-of-jalandhar-farmer-who-died-during-r-day-tractor-rally-couldn-t-handle-shock-101637355312778.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure punishment to those involved in killing of civilians in Hyderpora: PAGD to President Kovind||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that the rule of law prevails in Jammu and Kashmir and those “erring officials” involved in the killing of civilians in the Hyderpora encounter are brought to book and punished. In a letter to the President that was issued to the media on Friday, PAGD president Farooq Abdullah said the tragic incident in Hyderpora has evoked enormous public anger. “In this unfortunate incident three civilians got killed in suspicious circumstances. The incident calls for a time-bound judicial probe so that true facts are unravelled and brought in public domain,” he said. PAGD is the alliance of six mainstream political parties in Jammu an Kashmir, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Abdullah, who heads the National Conference, said such unfortunate incidents widen the gulf between the people of Jammu and Kashmir and the Government of India and, therefore, are to be avoided at any cost. “We would remind Your Excellency that the administration of Jammu and Kashmir is being run in the name of Your Excellency by the Lt. Governor acting as an agent and, therefore an onerous responsibility is placed on Your Excellency to ensure that the rule of law prevails and the involved erring officials are brought to book and punished under law,” he said. He also raised the issue of the practice of taking away bodies of the victims of such incidents and depriving their families of the right to organise their burial in accordance with religious practices. “In the unfortunate incident of Hyderpora also, the bodies of three civilians have been taken away by the security forces and reportedly buried 100 km away from their residences. Your Excellency, the right to decent burial is well recognised in the Constitution of India as well as in the international humanitarian law. “The dead bodies cannot be denied the right to burial under any circumstances including the so-called law and order problem. The bereaved families likewise also have a right to organise burial of the dead body in accordance with their religious practices,” he wrote in the letter dated November 18. The PAGD alleged that in the past few years such rights have been “violated with impunity”. “In the present case these rights are being denied. We would request Your Excellency to intervene in the matter and ensure that the dead bodies are returned to their families so that they can perform their last rites in accordance with their respective religious practices,” it said. The matter is of grave concern and calls for an urgent action, Abdullah added. The bodies of the two civilians -- Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul -- killed during Monday’s encounter in Hyderpora area of the city were exhumed at Handwara late on Thursday and were handed over to the families. The bodies were buried here during the night after their last rites were performed by the families. PTI SSB SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-punishment-to-those-involved-in-killing-of-civilians-in-hyderpora-pagd-to-president-kovind-101637354472235.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||People’s will essence of democracy: L-G Manoj Sinha on farm laws’ repeal||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Friday said that despite efforts, a section of farmers could not be convinced by the government and on the auspicious day of Gurpurab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured the nation that farm laws will be repealed. “Despite best efforts, a section of the farmers could not be convinced by the government and on this auspicious day of Gurpurab, the Prime Minister has assured that in the ensuing parliament session these laws will be repealed,” he said while addressing the Sikh community at Bibi Chand Kaur Gurdwara here. “I feel in democracy, honouring the people’s will is supreme and it is the essence of democracy and this has been done by the PM,” he added. He also thanked the PM for re-opening Kartarpur corridor before Prakash Utsav. Sinha paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sahib, Chand Nagar and prayed for sustained peace, prosperity, happiness and well-being of all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/peoples-will-essence-of-democracy-l-g-manoj-sinha-on-farm-laws-repeal-101637354233704.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm stir: The death of Baba Bakala family’s head their worsened financial condition||Saudagar Singh (70) of Kaler Ghuman village in Amritsar district’s Baba Bakala sub-division, whose 1-acre land was mortgaged to the moneylenders from whom he had borrowed ₹4.5 lakh, actively participated in the farmers’ stir against the three agriculture laws at Singhu border. His death further deteriorated the condition of the grieving family which is already reeling under debt. The elderly man, who had already spent 20-25 days at the protest site in July this year, went there again in mid-September for 15 days. On the day he was to return, when he went to the langar to take food he suffered a massive heart attack and died.His son Amarjit Singh, 37, said, “We are not able to repay the loan and our land is mortgaged. I am forced to do labour work in a company at Indore and my elder brother runs an auto-rickshaw. Our family is struggling to earn the bread.”‘My father spent nights on road to fight for farmers’ rights’ Kabal Singh (55) of Lashkari Nangal village falling in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division was returning home on a bike from a sit-in being staged by the farmers outside the residence of senior BJP leader Shwait Malik along with his friend Hira Singh on October 8. The two met with an accident and Kabal, a retired armyman, died on the spot due to his injuries. Hira, who was seriously injured, is still fighting for his life. “After protecting the country’s borders for years, he was forced to spend days and nights on the road to fight for the rights of farmers for several months. Sadly, he is not around to see the victory of the stir,” said Kabal’s elder son Jagmeet Singh.All of Kabal’s four children, including two sons, are married. “Both the sons are struggling to feed their families. Jagmeet drives a school bus, while younger one tills a small landholding,” Balraj Singh, a resident of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-stir-the-death-of-baba-bakala-family-s-head-their-worsened-financial-condition-101637354232553.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Old Delhi man from Rohini||Birds withdraw from their tree in the morning, and fly back to that same shelter by night. This bird leaves its tree in the sundown instead, and returns with the new sun. The bird in question is an extraordinary man. Nem Singh is 70. Long retired from a career in the “press,” he lives in distant Rohini but commutes daily to Kucha Lalman in Old Delhi. Here he comes with no other aim but to spend his entire day lounging quietly under a peepal tree. This is the street’s only tree—a peepal so tall, gigantic and dense that it reflects the kucha’s personality through its singular presence.It is 2pm and Mr Singh, as always, is perched on the marble platform that circles the tree’s wide trunk. The stately bark is wrinkled into numerous folds, making the tree appear so venerable that the first instinct on seeing it is to bow the head in reverence. Indeed, idols of various gods have been carefully placed within the trunk’s natural niches. “This peepal must be a 1,000 years old,” mutters Mr Singh. With his long white hair, he too looks as reverential.A native of Old Delhi where he passed most of his life, Mr Singh moved to Rohini some years ago with his eldest son “after we sold off our ancestral house in (nearby) Katra Budhan Rai.” A Delhi Jal Board employee, the son is privileged with a government-allotted residential flat “where I’m looked after very well.” However, Mr Singh is pulled daily into the arms of his beloved “Purani Dilli.” He feels truly at home only in this street, under this tree. “Our old house is no more but this ilaka (area) is my true address.”The tree stands at an intersection of four by-lanes, and some local or the other is always striding past it purposefully on way to their destination. Everyone of these passers-by seems to be acquainted with Mr Singh, including the area’s “electric metre reader.” Many pause to exchange “haal chaal” with him. “All the kucha wale treat me with respect—Hindus and Muslims, ladies and gents.” While attended to with love and care by his son’s family, Mr Singh says he prefers the daytime ambiance of Old Delhi because “here people are always out on the streets, you can see life is continually going on, you are always hearing the sounds of fellow humans… in Rohini, everyone stays inside their flat.”Mr Singh arrives every morning at 9 by bus. A nearby tea-stall man keeps him supplied throughout the day with (free) chai. A resident who considers him “like a father-figure” sends afternoon meal without fail. “Although my bahu always packs lunch for me.” He leaves for Rohini by 7.Mr Singh now gets up for a brief stroll. Moments later, the street is resounding with the tap-tap-tapping of his metallic walking stick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-old-delhi-man-from-rohini-101637353584281.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Family of Bathinda farmer who died at Tikri border struggles to run the household||The family of Karamjit Singh Bhullar (48) of Mandi Kalan village near Maur town in Bathinda district, who died after falling sick while participating in the farmers’ agitation at the Tikri border near Delhi in April this year, finds it challenging to manage the household.“I never went to school and Karamjit ensured that all three children in our joint family studied well. Be it is farming or looking after other fronts, I was just assisting him. Now, I feel helpless without him in the fields,” said Karamjit’s younger brother Darshan Singh. The two brothers with a small landholding of 1.5 acres used to take another 5-acre land on lease to cultivate paddy and cotton in the kharif season and wheat as a rabi crop. The deceased’s son Kamalpreet Singh, 24, said his father was an activist of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) and contributed to the protests against the contentious farm laws. Bhullar passed away a week before his 49th birthday on Baisakhi day of April 13. “My father followed a call of the union and visited the Tikri border site of protest thrice. He passionately worked against the farm laws and we are happy today that these will now be repealed. During his last visit, he complained of acute diarrhea on April 2. He was rushed back home and died four days after he suffered a massive heart attack,” he said.The family received a compensation of ₹5 lakh with Kamalpreet, a graduate, getting assurance of job of a clerk in the agriculture department this month.The deceased had no debt on him. ‘A befitting tribute my brother, farmers’ Natha Singh, elder brother of Sukhpal Singh (30) of Bathinda’s Mandi Kalan village, who breathed his last on March 31 at home after falling seriously ill at the Tikri border during the farmer agitation in January this year, says that the announcement to repeal the central farm laws is a befitting tribute to his brother and farmers. “After losing our parents a few years ago, Sukhpal left for the Delhi border to protect the interests of the farming community. He was among other volunteers from Mandi Kalan frequenting Tikri several times,” said 43-year Natha to whom chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in September personally handed over a job letter of a peon in the agriculture department.Natha was given a compensation of ₹5 lakh by the state government.Natha’s cousin Major Singh recalls that Sukhpal was diagnosed with a fatal infection in the pancreas and the community extended financial support of ₹8 lakh for his treatment.“He was treated for over two months at PGIMER, Chandigarh. The youths took an initiative and collected money from villagers and leaders of the BKU’s Sidhupur and Dakaunda factions also ontributed. Though our family lost a member while battling at the dharna site, we got some sort of relief in an announcement to repeal the laws that were rejected by the entire rural community,” said Major, a school bus driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/family-of-bathinda-man-who-died-at-tikri-border-struggles-to-run-the-household-101637353453073.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir observes complete shutdown over Hyderpora civilian killings||Kashmir observed a complete shutdown on Friday against the killing of two civilians during an operation in Hyderpora earlier this week.Meanwhile, political leaders asked the government to return the bodies of another civilian from Jammu killed in the Hyderpora operation.On Friday, all shops and businesses establishments remained shut in the city and other rural townships, however, transport remained unaffected. The shutdown call was given by Hurriyat Conference against the killing of civilians.Due to the shutdown, there was less attendance in the government offices and elaborate security arrangements had been made across the Valley, especially in areas where the two civilian victims, Altaf Bhat and Dr Mudasir Gul, lived. Bodies of both the civilians were buried after exhumation on Thursday night.A senior police official said that no untoward incident took place during the burial. Additional troops were deployed in the city to meet any exigency, however, the day passed peacefully.Meanwhile, mainstream politicians and Hurriyat Conference demanded the return the body of another civilian Amir Ahmad Magray killed in the Hydepora.Former National Conference legislator and prominent Shia leader Ruhullah Mehdi raised questions on the Hyderpora operation. “Has Amir Magray’s body been returned to his family? And if not, why? Do the administration, and also we (the society), think he was a child of a lesser mortal? And what about the identity and details of the fourth one killed? Or was there a fourth one? Was there even a combatant among them?” tweeted Ruhullah Mehdi.Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also sought return of the body of the third civilian killed at Hyderpora. “As a citizen of India, Amir Magray of Ramban enjoys the same rights (in life and in death) under Article 21 of the Constitution of India as Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul. Request @manojsinha_ Sahab that his mortal remains be handed over to his family for last rites,” Mattu said in a tweet.Hurriyat Conference in a statement said that body of a third person should be returned without any delay. “The authorities should desist from the criminal practice of ceasing bodies and denying their families the right to a proper burial. It is abhorrently inhuman,” Hurriyat Conference said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-observes-complete-shutdown-over-hyderpora-civilian-killings-101637353152085.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||DS Patwalia appointed new Punjab advocate general||The Punjab government on Friday appointed senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia as new advocate general (AG) in place of APS Deol who had resigned on November 1 in the wake of demand for his ouster by state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. A service matters lawyer, 47-year-old Patwalia is the son of former Supreme Court judge Kuldeep Singh. An alumnus of Panjab University, he was designated as a senior advocate by the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2014. Patwalia’s name was considered first after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as chief minister on September 20. But, the choice fell on Deol, who soon ran into controversy for being the defence counsel of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and some other accused in the 2015 sacrilege violence cases. Sidhu had been gunning for Deol. Patwalia, who took over the office late on Friday evening, has multiple challenges before him. The Channi government is running against time ahead of polls and is pressing for some kind of breakthrough in drugs cases and 2015 sacrilege violence cases. In the past, the Sidhu-led group had been critical of Amarinder Singh government of tardy probes on both these issues. The high court is yet to decide on opening of sealed cover reports in Punjab’s drugs cases. As of probe in 2015 sacrilege violence cases, it has also made little progress as the appointment of special public prosecutor Rajwinder Singh Bains has run into controversy and there is a stay on probe against Saini in any FIR till February from the high court. Saini’s role in building up the case in sacrilege violence cases is considered crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ds-patwalia-appointed-new-punjab-advocate-general-101637352912109.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Agri laws: Repeal ripples will go far beyond the farm in Punjab||The repeal of three contentious farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Gurpurb (the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev) is imbued with huge symbolism for Punjab which was the epicentre of farmers’ protests for more than a year. The surprise announcement — a week before one of the most dogged stirs against agriculture reforms in the nation’s recent history was to enter its second year with a renewed intensity — is sure to impact the political dynamics in the poll-bound border state where the assembly election is slated for early next year. Here is how:Reprieve for BJPA closure on the agitation, sustained by a groundswell of sentiment and support in the countryside, comes as a major breather for the saffron party which was facing farmers’ ire on the ground in Punjab. The farm laws not only led to the rupture of its 24-year-old poll alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal which walked out of the National Democratic Alliance government last year, but also made it the prime target of the agitators’ wrath in rural Punjab. Now, the BJP is expected to leverage Modi’s well-timed gesture which came two days after the Centre reopening the Kartarpur corridor to Pakistan for Sikh pilgrims to regain the ground it lost in the Sikh constituency. But, a shrill politics over the agitation’s human toll of over 700 deaths will cast a shadow on the party’s outreach in the first election that it will be contesting in Punjab without its pre-poll ally Shiromani Akali Dal since 1996. BJP’s stakes are limited to urban areas but Modi’s course correction will help it test the waters in the countryside.Congress ups the credit warThe ruling Congress in Punjab which has consistently opposed the farm laws and passed assembly resolutions rejecting the central legislation twice has been quick to credit the ‘anndata’ (farmers) for “forcing” the Modi government to relent. Taking a political high ground on the Centre’s climbdown sits well with the party’s electoral objectives: to live down anti-incumbency sentiment and garner a slice in the rural vote pie. Not surprisingly, the Channi government, having already announced a string of concessions to farmers and other sections of voters, will now make the roll-back a key plank of its poll pitch in the assembly sweepstakes. Of course, Aam Aadmi Party and Akalis will be competing with the Congress to milk the issue for all its worth.New political equations on the cardsThe repeal of the laws has opened possibilities of new political alignments and alliances in Punjab. It is a major relief for the Shiromani Akali Dal which was smarting under the double whammy of the break-up of its alliance with the BJP and a backlash from its core constituency among peasantry for having initially supported the Modi government’s ordinances on farm reforms before the Parliament stamped them as the laws. Desperate to be in poll reckoning, the Akalis had forged an alliance with the BSP leaving 20 of 117 assembly seats to the junior partner. But, the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister negated SAD’s caste card through BSP. The Akalis can now hope to recover some of the political ground they lost in their traditional bastion of Sikh peasantry. But, the key question in Punjab now is: will the SAD and the BJP warm up to each other and again forge an alliance that once welded the Sikh and Hindu constituencies in an electorally formidable way? Not before the polls, say Punjab observers. Their reasons: one, the bitter overhang of agitation vis-à-vis BJP will not dissipate in the run-up to elections; two, Akali bete noire Capt Amarinder Singh has already cosied up to the saffron party; and, third, SAD has already moved on, firmed its alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party and even announced seats. All this, however, doesn’t foreclose their post-election options in case of a hung assembly.Clears the way for Capt-BJP TangoThe repeal of farm laws opens up the window for a poll tie-up between breakaway Congress leader and former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who has floated a new party, Punjab Lok Congress, and hinted at seat-sharing with the BJP in case there is a resolution of the farm issues. Though his party is yet to take off, former two-time CM is counting on his political heft to woo the disgruntled Congress leaders and make a common cause with the BJP to dent the party he was pushed out of unceremoniously. “I look forward to working closely with the BJP-led Centre for development of kisani,” Amarinder said in his post-repeal reaction, revealing his gambit.X-Factor of farm bodiesThe 32 bodies comprising the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, most of them rooted in Punjab, will be in a triumphant mode over the repeal of farm laws. But, will they take the electoral plunge to cash in on their victory? So far, they have ruled out contesting polls. But, some of the SKM constituents, particularly the Rajewal faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, are known to harbour political ambitions. All political parties will try and co-opt the farm unions who, buoyed by the success of their tenacious agitation, will be an X-factor at the Punjab hustings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/agri-laws-repeal-ripples-will-go-far-beyond-the-farm-in-punjab-101637352494199.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Farmers refuse to end protest in Noida despite repeated requests||The farmers protesting against the Noida authority refused to end their agitation on Friday, even as senior government officials assured them that their demands are being looked into. The farmers have been protesting for the last two and half months outside the Noida authority’s main administrative building located in Sector 6, seeking hiked compensation for their land acquired for the development, 1,000 square metres residential plot, and changes in building regulations in villages, among others. On Thursday night, Meerut division commissioner Surendra Singh and Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari held a meeting with a 10-member farmers’ delegation in Sector 6 and requested them to end the agitation as their issues are being addressed. “We have sent the farmers’ demands to the state government which will take a decision as per the law,” said Maheshwari, CEO, Noida authority. However, the agitating farmers have refused to vacate the protest site.“They (authority officials) said the state government will look into our demands and take appropriate action. But we do not trust officials of the Noida authority because they keep changing their stands on our demands. We have decided that our agitation will end only after the authority accepts our demands and takes necessary action in a board meeting,” said Sukhbir Yadav, founder president of Bharatiya Kisan Parishad that is leading the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-refuse-to-end-protest-in-noida-despite-repeated-requests-101637352372075.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram pays floral tributes to Indira Gandhi on 104th birth anniversary||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday paid rich tributes to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her 104th birth anniversary by offering flowers on her statue at the historic Ridge in Shimla. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Shimla mayor Satya Kaundal, deputy mayor Shalinder Chauhan, deputy commissioner Aditya Negi, MC commissioner Ashish Kohli and other prominent persons also paid homage to the former PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-pays-floral-tributes-to-indira-gandhi-on-104th-birth-anniversary-101637351951953.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Farmers celebrate at UP Gate after PM’s announcement to repeal agri laws||Farmers camping at the UP Gate since last November celebrated with sweets and termed their year-long agitation against the three controversial farm laws a ‘victory’ after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the Union government has decided to repeal the laws passed by the Parliament in 2020. However, they reiterated that their protest will continue till the laws are not completely repealed. Farmers at the UP Gate have been occupying portions of the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageways on National Highway 9 for almost a year, and put up hundreds of tents at the protest site demanding roll back of the three farm laws and a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for a range of crops. Hundreds of farmers at the UP Gate protest site, mostly from districts in western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Uttarakhand, have been preparing for a march to Delhi on November 29 ahead of the next Parliament session. Soon after the announcement on Friday, there was an exodus of farmers rushing to the protest site at UP Gate, said leaders of farm unions.Groups of young farmers also took rounds of the UP Gate in their tractors while waving the tricolour and chanting slogans of “Bharat mata ki Jai, kisan ekta zindabad.” Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of all farm unions, issued a statement soon after the PM’s address. “Samyukta Kisan Morcha welcomes this decision and will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures. If this happens, it will be a historic victory of the one-year long farmers’ struggle in India. However, nearly 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. The central government’s obstinacy is responsible for these avoidable deaths,” said the statement. “SKM also reminds the Prime Minister that the agitation of farmers is not just for the repeal of the three black laws, but also for a statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers,” it added. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and a spokesperson of SKM, rushed to the UP Gate on Friday. “It is indeed a victory for the farmers, and about 700 of them who gave their lives to the cause of this agitation. The PM’s announcement has come on the day of Prakash Utsav (Guru Nanak’s birthday) and it is a welcome step. However, we will still wait and watch till the laws finally get repealed. Moreover, a law on minimum support price (MSP) should be passed. The SKM will decide the future course of action in the coming days but for now, the protest will continue.” “The government is feeling the heat of the sustained agitation by the farmers.The decision has come ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in several states next year. There should also be discussions on withdrawing the FIRs registered against farmers and the benefits that will be extended to the families of those who lost their lives during the agitation,” said Bajwa.The decision to repeal the three farm laws comes months before several states--Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand where there is an opposition to the farm laws--hold the assembly elections due next year. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), and one of the principal leaders of the protesting farmers, said the agitation will not be called off anytime soon. “We will wait for the day when the farm laws are rolled back in the Parliament. The government should talk to farmers on the issues of MSP...” he tweeted. There have been multiple rounds of talks between the government and the farm unions, but none since January 22 this year, after which both sides have taken a strong stand on the question of repealing the farm laws. Sardar V M Singh, a prominent farmer leader who heads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, which moved out of UP Gate in January after a tractor march to Delhi turned violent on the occasion of Republic Day , said there had to be some guarantee on MSP. “This agitation, however long it lasts, should result to something that benefits farmers. An ordinance (what ordinance) came in June 2020 and crops, such as wheat, dhan, makka, etc., were then going at a rate of 30-40% below the MSP. The government should give some guarantee on MSP. If the guarantee would have been given, there would have been no need for the three farm laws,” said Singh. In his address to the nation on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the MSP will be made more robust and transparent, and a committee will be constituted to take decisions on the matter. Some farmer leaders at the UP Gate protest site viewed the development as a “political compulsion”. “The decision has come ahead of the assembly elections in UP. It shows that the government is feeling the heat of the farmers’ sustained agitation for almost a year. The decision of the PM is welcome but we will wait to see it turn into a reality,” said Prabal Pratap Singh, spokesperson for BKU (Asli). However, Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Uttar Pradesh, refuted the claims of the PM’s announcement coming in the wake of the assembly elections “The statements have come from none other than the Prime Minister. The condition of the opposition in Uttar Pradesh is evident to all. The BJP is committed to farmers’ welfare and the statements coming from the PM shows that farmers’ welfare is his top priority,” said Mohan. Gathering to swell at UP-Gate border Many farmers rushed to the UP Gate protest site to celebrate their ‘victory’ in the ongoing agitation after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three farm laws on Friday morning. Officials of the Ghaziabad police said the gathering at the UP Gate will swell further and that they are keeping an eye over the development. “Many farmers, who went home, have started thronging the protest site at UP Gate to be with the protestors. It is expected that the gathering will swell further and we are keeping an eye over the development. We are in regular touch with farmer leaders; our personnel will continue to man the protest site,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Police estimate currently, there are 400 to 500 farmers camping at the UP Gate protest site. Farmer leader Bajwa said more farmers will join. “It is a victory for farmers. They want to be with the protesting farmers as a mark of celebration. More farmers will arrive here,” he added. Commuters want route be opened nowMeanwhile, daily commuters are upbeat about the development but are apprehensive as to when normal movement of vehicles will resume on National Highway 9. They also demanded that farmers should vacate the protest site after the PM himself announced a repeal of the farm laws. “When the PM himself has announced to roll back the farm laws, farmers too should cooperate and vacate the UP Gate protest site in the interest of daily commuters. It is almost a year that commuters are having to take alternate routes for their daily commute,” said Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony, Indirapuram. The farmers’ protest at UP Gate has led thousands of daily commuters to take alternate routes to enter Delhi. A huge volume of traffic also passes through the Kaushambi Township near the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border. “We see the development as a welcome sign, but we think that there is no immediate relief coming our way. Thousands of vehicles pass through the township every day. We will wait for the developments and hope the farmers’ issues get resolved soon, so that commuters don’t have to suffer,” said V K Mittal, president of the Kaushambi township Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa). Recently in October, the Delhi police removed barricades from the UP-Gate but the farmers continued with their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-celebrate-at-up-gate-after-pm-s-announcement-to-repeal-agri-laws-101637351772057.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||‘Will return after repeal process goes through in Parliament’||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a repeal of the three contentious farm laws breaking a year-long impasse and asked protesting farmers to return to their homes, demonstrators at the three borders across Delhi exhibited mistrust against the promise and said they would not leave the protest spots unless the laws were repealed in the Parliament.Sukhbir Singh, 43, a farmer from Moga district of Punjab who has been on the Singhu border since November 26 last year, said the mistrust stems from the fact that the government had gone back on its promises several times.“Be it implementation of the Swaminathan report or other matters, the government is known to sway from one side to another. We welcome the announcement but this is only a half-victory. We will wait till the laws are repealed on paper and other demands of the farmers are met including removal of all fabricated cases against us,” he saidA similar sentiment was shared by farmers at Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Yubraj Singh, 62, a farmer from Moosa village in Mansa district said celebrations could wait. "We want to wait for this announcement to be acted upon. Along with the farm laws, there are other laws around electricity bills and stubble burning which have provisions such as a fine of ₹1 crore and a five-year jail term for stubble burning. We want to wait and see the government’s stand on these issues while they work on the repeal," Singh said.Gurpreet Singh, 25, a farmer from Harchowal village in Gurdaspur district in Punjab, said that despite the announcement of repeal, the move would not benefit the Bharatiya Janata Party electorally in Punjab in the Assembly election next year. Singh and his family had voted for the party in the last Lok Sabha election.“Sustaining the agitation took money and lives of our people. For instance, every ten days, our village had to spend ₹40,000 just for diesel to make one round trip to the protest spot. Nearly 700 farmers died during the movement. Though we won, it came at a heavy cost. No one from our village will vote for BJP in the upcoming elections as their arrogance forced us to protest and pushed our state’s economy back by several years,” he said.His friend Naib Singh, a member of Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan in Gurdaspur, however, said the government was not eyeing Punjab Assembly elections. “The decision has nothing to do with elections in Punjab or the protesting farmers because the government knew that they will not garner votes in Punjab. That was never an option. But through us, they want to win the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election that is crucial for this regime."Several protesters said that the events of the past year also fuelled the anger and mistrust against the Centre and BJP. “It takes a toll to travel back and forth every two weeks for one whole year,” said Gurdeep Singh, a computer engineer from Kurukshetra in Haryana who came to the protest site for three days in December last year but decided to stay throughout these months. “People have been demanding repeal of laws since September last year and protesters have been attacked and vilified in various ways across different states. We have been killed and mowed down. All those will not be forgotten,” he said.With the harvest season underway, many agitating farmers have returned home to either work on the field or celebrate Gur Purab – the festival marking the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev – with their families in their home states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. While the protest sites had fewer than the usual number of protesters in the initial days, those present at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri on Friday engaged in celebrations by distributing sweets and holding tractor rallies. They also held kirtan earlier in the day.The lack of crowds also sparked concerns among many over possible face-off with authorities or mischievous elements. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer groups, also said that it is mobilizing farmers from several states to mark the first anniversary of farmer agitation on November 26.“We all know what this government is capable of. You saw what happened on January 26; how farmers were vilified and how the narrative was turned against us. We do not want history to repeat and will mobilise more supporters. More people will start coming in by evening (Friday),” said Prakash Singh, a farmer from Moradabad at Ghazipur.(With inputs from Soumya Pillai and Paras Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-return-after-repeal-process-goes-through-in-parliament-101637350922542.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shukla gives clarion call to Himachal Congress workers for 2022 assembly elections||A fortnight after the party won bypolls to three assembly constituencies and Mandi parliamentary segment, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Himachal Pradesh affairs, Rajiv Shukla on Friday, gave a clarion call to the warring factions of Congress to sink their differences and work for the party’s victory in 2022 assembly elections. “All Congressmen needs to put their differences aside. Congress stood as a united force during the bypolls, it needs to do it further in the 2022 elections,” said Rajiv Shukla while addressing a meeting convened in party headquarters Rajiv Bhawan to commemorate former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s birth anniversary and launch of a membership drive. Shukla’s unity call to party workers came a day after Congress leaders put up a show of unity at a luncheon hosted at Holly Lodge by Mandi MP Pratibha Singh, who is also former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife. As many as 20 legislators and a large number of former legislators also attended the luncheon. “Victory in bypolls has laid the foundation for formation of Congress government,” he said in his address. “All Congress leaders worked with unity, strength and vigour and the bypoll results are in front of you,” he said, adding that the bypolls result not only surprised the ruling BJP but put the ruling party on the alert. “Congress workers will have to work harder for the general assembly elections,” he said, adding that bypoll results forced the BJP to reduce the petroleum prices. Shukla also hit out at the government saying that the central government should have withdrawn the three ‘black” laws much earlier.” “We all should work together to live up to the dreams of beloved leader Virbhadra Singh,” he said. AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt gave credit to party workers and leaders for the victory in bypolls. “The Congress results have startled the BJP; we would continue this winning streak in the assembly elections too,” he said. The party leaders also honoured the three newly elected legislators Rohit Thakur, Sanjay Awasthi and Bhawani Singh Pathania. Party honoured Lok Sabha member Pratibha Singh. State party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore exhorted the party workers to continue their diatribe against the BJP. He also lauded Congress legislator Rohit Thakur for forfeiting deposits of BJP candidates in Jubbal Kotkhai. Congress legislature party leader Mukesh Agnihotri also spoke on the occasion. He hit out at both the central government and state government over its policies. Earlier, the Congress leaders paid floral tributes at the statue of Indira Gandhi on the ridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shukla-gives-clarion-call-to-himachal-congress-workers-for-2022-assembly-elections-101637351532167.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 39 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Three more coronavirus-related deaths were reported in Punjab on Friday, while 39 fresh cases raised the infection count to 6,02,943, according to a medical bulletin.Three deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Patiala, bringing the pandemic toll to 16,580 in the state, the bulletin said.Among new COVID-19 cases, Hoshiarpur and Mohali reported 10 cases each, followed by eight in Pathankot.The number of active cases stands at 315.Twenty-seven people recovered from the infection, taking the recovery count to 5,86,048, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-39-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101637351351870.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man ends life, fiancée living in Canada booked for abetment||Allegedly betrayed by his fiancée, a 23-year-old man of Sataur village committed suicide by hanging himself in his fields on Friday night. The police have booked the girl and three of her family for abetment to suicide. In his complaint to police, deceased Sukhraj Singh’s father Gurmail Singh said in May 2019, his son was engaged to a Bahadurpur-based girl who had cleared IELTS and aspired to go to Canada for study but her family was unable to pay for her trip. He claimed that he paid around ₹12 lakh to send the girl abroad but on reaching there she turned hostile.“Initially, she used to talk to my son but later she stopped taking his calls. We contacted her family many a times, but they also did not respond positively,” he alleged.Gurmail said that on Thursday, they went to the girl’s family to sort out matter, but they threatened them and refused to continue the relation.“Feeling slighted and betrayed, my son put an end to his life. We recovered his body hanging from the roof of the tubewell room around midnight,” he stated, demanding action against the girl and her family members.Hariana station house officer Hargurdev Singh revealed that a case had been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-ends-life-fianc-e-living-in-canada-booked-for-abetment-101637351171843.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||34,000 migratory birds nesting in Pong Dam wetland||With their homeland far north freezing under intense cold, over 34,000 migratory birds from Central Asia and the Trans-Himalayan region have descended on to the Pong Dam wetland, their home for winter.As per the fortnightly estimation conducted by the wildlife wing of Himachal forest department, a total of 34,465 birds have been recorded at the Pong Dam till November 15. The number of species recorded is 78, of which more than 20 are migratory species.Fifteen teams of forest officials and volunteers were deployed to conduct the census.“Among the winged visitors who have descended on to the Pong Dam wetland in large numbers are the world’s highest-flying bird, the bar-headed goose,” said Rahul Rohane, divisional forest officer (wildlife), Hamirpur. So far, their number is estimated to be around 8,345 and will further increase as the winter advances, he added. Amur Falcon has been spotted in the wetland after eight years. Earlier, three birds of the species were reported here in 2013. It breeds in south-eastern Siberia and Northern China. Other species having considerable population that arrived at Pong Dam wetland are Common Coot (7,127), Northern Pintail (3,621), Little Cormorant (3,130), Common Teal (2,728), Common Pochard (1,601) and Ruddy Shelduck (1,149).The Gadwell, Spot-billed duck, Northern Shoveler, Common Moorthen, Purple Moorthen, Black-headed goose, River Tern, Tufted Pochard, Eurasian Wigeon, Black-winged stilt, brown headed gull and river lawping have also arrived in good numbers, besides and impressive number of other species,” says Rohane.The number of the migratory birds crosses 1 lakh mark at the peak of the winter.The birds return in March to their native land such as Siberia, China, Tibet, Mongolia and Iraq.Resting reserveMore than 1,08,578 birds of 96 species were counted last year at the Pong Dam Lake Wildlife sanctuary.Of them, water dependent migratory birds were 1,01,431 of 51 species and water dependent resident birds were 6,433 of 29 species. As many as 714 birds of 16 other species were also recorded. Since 1988-89, more than 430 species have visited the wetland.Alert for bird fluThe wildlife authorities have also put its teams on alert for any eventuality in case of bird flu outbreak. Rohane said no bird has been found dead in the wetland area as of now. People in the peripheral areas have been told to inform the authorities if they notice any fatality. More than 5,000 had died in Pong Lake Wetland area due to the avian influenza last year. Most of them were bar-headed geese, the bird that arrives here in maximum numbers.Apart from it, the department has also stepped-up vigil against the poachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/34000-migratory-birds-nesting-in-pong-dam-wetland-101637351113120.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||HPSC officials’ arrest an achievement of govt to eliminate corruption: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday termed the arrest of a deputy secretary and two other officials of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) as an achievement of the government in the direction to eliminate corruption.“Our government is committed to eliminate corruption. Arrest of the officials is a step in this direction as action was taken immediately and further investigation is on,” he said, during his visit to Karnal.On arrest of the HPSC officials having raised questions over the government’s tall claims of fair recruitments, Khattar slammed the previous governments for not taking action against people involved in corruption. “The BJP government did not hesitate to send them behind the bars. There is no space for the corrupt and corruption in this government,” he said.The state vigilance bureau on Thursday had arrested the deputy secretary of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and two others for allegedly manipulating the marks of candidates who appeared in the written examination for recruitment of dental surgeons, conducted on September 26, 2021, and recovered ₹1.07 crore from the officer’s residence.‘Want to break old myths’Khattar on Friday said he intentionally wants to break the old myths of not visiting Kapal Mochan Mela or other places which might lead to electoral losses in future, which is a common belief in Haryana.“I’ve also heard that no sitting CM of Haryana or Punjab has visited the mela in the last 50 years. I cancelled two meetings to attend the mela and had come here earlier as well. There are also myths that no incumbent CM goes to Madhuban (in Karnal) and none has visited in the last 30 years. I’ve been there thrice, even during my last term. I’m here to break such myths. We should not follow such superstitions,” the CM said.Khattar was in Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur region to take part in the ongoing historical mela, a spiritual site of communal harmony that started on Monday. He visited many places of worship and took a holy dip in a sarovar. He praised the district administration for making good arrangements in a limited time and said nearly two lakh devotees visited the mela on Thursday.“In view of religious tourism, we will develop the region between Panchkula’s Kalka and Yamunanagar’s Kalesar under which we are enhancing infrastructure in Kapal Mochan,” Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsc-officials-arrest-an-achievement-of-govt-to-eliminate-corruption-khattar-101637351111958.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Low turnout of first-dose beneficiaries may hamper vaccination target in Ghaziabad||Officials of the district health department said on Friday that the low turnout of the first-dose beneficiaries is posing hindrance in meeting target of the first dose set by the Uttar Pradesh government for November 30.According to official figures of the department, the first-dose target for the administration is nearly 5,400 as daily average during the past four weeks, and the department has to administer an average of nearly 12,200 first doses to meet the target in the remaining 12 days.The district has set a target of administering 2,702,167 first doses, however, they administered nearly 2,334,861 first doses till November 19 evening.The daily average of Covid-19 doses administered between October 21 and November 18 is nearly 14,785, and the contribution of first doses of the daily average is just about 5,406, according to the official figures.“We are trying our best to meet the target, but the turnout of beneficiaries at the vaccination centres has come down during the festival season. We are running about 220 centres and there the vaccines are available in abundance, which is nearly 30,000-35,000 per day. So, there is no shortage,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination.“Many of our staff have also been assigned duties of the block level officers for election work. Otherwise, we have made complete outreach to the residents with different measures including evening camps, door-to-door campaigns, and making telephonic calls. Many centres have been given a target of 150 doses daily, and those have witnessed a turnout of only 80-90 beneficiaries. So, we are reviewing the situation, considering the deadline which is set on November 30,” Dr Mathuria added.The daily turnout of beneficiaries has also come down after Diwali on November 4 this year.According to the CoWIN portal, the health department administered a daily average of 6,084 first doses per day between October 21 and November 3, and 5110 first doses per day between November 4 and November 18.“Vaccination is of utmost importance for protection against Covid-19. It has been a trend in the past that complications like tuberculosis or polio have reduced considerably only after vaccination... Door-to-door vaccination should now be started to vaccinate the remaining beneficiaries,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.“At present, there’s a lower rate of infection and a higher rate of sero-prevalence in the district, keeping the spread of infection at bay. In case of the predicted third wave outbreak, people who have not been vaccinated will be affected,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/low-turnout-of-first-dose-beneficiaries-may-hamper-vaccination-target-in-ghaziabad-101637350991842.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chamkaur Sahib: CM, guv open ‘Dastan-e-Shahadat’ theme park||Paying tributes to the Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh, the elder sahibzadas (sons) of Guru Gobind Singh and 40 martyrs, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, accompanied by the Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit, on Friday dedicated the “Dastan-e-Shahadat” (a saga of sacrifices) theme park in Chamkaur Sahib to the people of the state. The monument is dedicated to martyrs of “Saka Chamkaur Sahib” (the Battle of Chamkaur Sahib, fought with the Mughals in 1704) in which two elder sons of the tenth Guru along with 40 other Sikhs were martyred.Speaking on the occasion, Channi said the state-of-the-art theme park project would go a long way in apprising the people about the saga of “Kacchi Garhi”.The CM said the battle of Chamkaur Sahib is a watershed moment in the Indian history where just 42 brave warriors, including the elder sons of Guru Gobind Singh, fought valiantly against the coalition forces of the Mughals.Channi also complimented his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh for initiating the prestigious project during his tenure.The CM and governor also visited 11 galleries at the theme park, which effectively showcase Sikh history and glorious past. Earlier, the CM and governor paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sri Qatalgarh Sahib and inaugurated a heritage street from the main road to shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chamkaur-sahib-cm-guv-open-dastan-e-shahadat-theme-park-101637350940255.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal of farm laws: Much needed reprieve for Haryana govt||Repeal of the three farm laws has come as a political and administrative relief for the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana which has been fire-fighting the law and order fallout of an unrelenting farmer agitation for around a year.It all started on November 25 when farmers from Punjab assembled in Ambala with their ‘Dilli chalo’ call. The agitation soon gathered momentum in Haryana. The state’s proximity to New Delhi led to farmer unions pitching permanent tents on the Haryana-Delhi border at two locations, Singhu and Tikri, hindering the major arteries to the national capital.As the agitation gathered momentum, the emboldened farm union leaders started targeting the BJP-JJP coalition leaders through boycott calls and more seriously, by disrupting their functions and field visits.That led to multiple clashes between farmers and the police. With the Opposition parties, the Congress and the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) at the back of farmers, the farmers’ stir polarised the state polity.A string of confrontations in Ambala, Karnal and Jind spiked tensions, even as the Khattar government claimed to have exercised “utmost restraint” while dealing with the delicate law and order crisis.Adding to the BJP’s woes, it’s own senior leader and former Union minister Birender Singh came out in support of farmers and counselled the state government to resolve the deadlock. Farmers’ protest resonated in the recent bypoll in Ellenabad in which the BJP lost to INLD despite having improved its vote share. In fact, the farmers’ unrest seemed to overshadow a series of pro-peasantry initiatives of the state government.All that is set to change after the Prime Minister’s announcement on Friday, says Prof Rajender Sharma, of political science department at the Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, adding, “The political and economic activities will finally resume after a year of disruption.”Narendra Kumar Bishnoi, head of the business economics department at Hisar’s Guru Jambheshwar University, said the farmers’ economic condition has not improved in the last seven to eight years. “They are losing confidence in government policies. They do not trust the government’s three farm laws which were basically good for them. Instead of looking for foreign companies, the government should motivate local traders and farmers to start agro-based projects,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-much-needed-reprieve-for-haryana-govt-101637350939141.html
20-11-2021||Other||With seven fresh cases in a day, dengue tally reaches 603 in Gautam Budh Nagar||Seven fresh dengue cases were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday, taking the tally to 603, officials said. The active cases in the district have been seeing a dip, with 19 patients under treatment at present.The dengue tally had breached the 500-mark on November 6 this year, with the district reporting 160 dengue cases this month alone.Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer (DMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the dengue cases are seeing a declining trend. “The active and fresh cases are decreasing this month. In the next fortnight, the dengue cases are expected to go down further,” said Sharma.Sharma, however, added that the health department is still on alert and has been conducting intensive fogging drives in the district. “We have also managed to contain the spread of dengue infection in 18 clusters which were identified earlier in October.”With the death of a 44-year-old man, the death toll reached two on November 13. The first death due to the vector-borne disease this year was reported on October 19, after a 14-year-old boy died of dengue.At present, dengue testing is being done at District Hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida. The health department has also been conducting health camps or ‘Aarogya Mela’ at 33 health centres in the district every Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-seven-fresh-cases-in-a-day-dengue-tally-reaches-603-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101637350813857.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Transport department to deregister 100,000 old vehicles to check pollution||The Noida transport department has started the procedure to deregister about 100,000 diesel and petrol vehicles older than 10 and 15 years, respectively, to check pollution. The National Green Tribunal (NGT), in a 2015 order, has banned petrol vehicles older than 15 years and diesel vehicles older than 10 years in the national capital region (NCR). In October 2018, the Supreme Court upheld the NGT order and directed that such vehicles be impounded.AK Pandey, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that there are approximately 775,000 registered vehicles in Gautam Budh Nagar. “We found that there are about 110,00 diesel and petrol vehicles that are over 10 and 15 years old. We conducted an enforcement drive and impounded 34 petrol vehicles and 48 diesel vehicles. We also issued fines of ₹10,000 each to about 276 violators for not being able to show us Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates,” he said. Pandey said that the transport department is issuing notices to the owners of these old vehicles to surrender their registration papers. “They should scrap the old vehicles and inform the transport department. We will deregister these vehicles from our records. If people are found driving such vehicles, action will be taken against them,” he said. Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic department is also conducting enforcement and awareness programmes to check pollution. “This month, we seized 233 diesel and petrol vehicles that are older than 10 and 15 years, respectively. We also deployed traffic police personnel at different fuel stations to compulsorily check vehicles’ PUC once people visit for fuel. The vehicles lacking PUC certificates are fined ₹10,000,” he said. The traffic police have deployed its personnel at the Noida-Delhi borders to stop the entry of heavy vehicles in Delhi till November 21 in accordance with Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM)’s directions.The CAQM late night Tuesday directed that schools, colleges, and educational institutions in the National Capital Region will remain closed until further orders. It also said that only five of the 11 thermal power plants located within a 300km radius of Delhi will remain operational till November 30, construction and demolition activities are banned in Delhi-NCR till November 21, and banned trucks carrying non-essential items from entering Delhi till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/transport-department-to-deregister-100-000-old-vehicles-to-check-pollution-101637350812743.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Case registered as stray bullet hits hotel window in Noida||A case was registered against an unknown person after a stray bullet hit a window in Sector 18’s Mosaic Hotel around 1.45am on Thursday. The bullet, fired from outside, damaged the window of a room on the second floor and hit its roof. No one was injured in the incident, the hotel management said in the complaint. Rishikant Sharma, 35, hotel manager, said in the police complain, “We dialled 112 and informed police about the matter. We demand the police investigate the matter and take action,” he said. When contacted, Sharma said that he has filed a complaint and he has nothing else to add. Arun Malik, Sector 18 police checkpost in-charge, said that a police team reached the spot after receiving the information. “A guest was staying in the room when the incident took place. There was a sudden bang and the window’s glass smashed. The guest informed the hotel management. Initially, it was believed someone had thrown a stone or a piece of brick at the window. But investigation showed a bullet was fired,” he said. Malik said the police team scanned the footage of CCTV cameras in nearby areas but could not trace the suspect. “It appears someone opened fire randomly in an inebriated condition and fled the spot. We have registered a case against an unknown person under Section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), Section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and Section 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 20 police station. We are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/case-registered-as-stray-bullet-hits-hotel-window-in-noida-101637350811674.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Noida airport: UP minister reviews preparations for foundation stone-laying event||The Uttar Pradesh minister of medical health, family and child welfare department Jai Pratap Singh on Friday reviewed the progress of the preparation for the event in the which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Noida International Greenfield Airport on November 25.He first reviewed the progress with top officials of the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), Gautam Budh Nagar police and administration officials at the NIAL’s office in Greater Noida’s sector Omega 1, and then visited the actual site in Ranhera village.“We directed officials to complete all preparations properly, because it is going to be a historic event that will witness the beginning of a new chapter of development in the state,” said Singh, after the initial meeting.Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police Alok Singh, Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officials of NIAL, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY and Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, as well as other officials were present at the review meeting. At Ranhera, the minister visited the parking lots, the stage, the sitting area, and the helipad, and directed the staff to make sure that the general public who will come to attend the event do not face any kind of inconvenience. After the inspection, Singh also attended small gatherings of the general public at Jewar town, and appealed to the people to attend the event on November 25, where Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Narendra Modi will address the public after laying the airport’s foundation stone.The airport is expected to become operational by 2024-end according to the schedule.Officials said that before November 25, UP CM Yogi Adityanath is also expected to inspect the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-airport-up-minister-reviews-preparations-for-foundation-stone-laying-event-101637350512901.html
20-11-2021||Noida||Despite reduced fire counts, air in Noida and Ghaziabad remains ‘very poor’||Even as the instances of stubble burning have reduced considerably over the past one week, the air quality in Ghaziabad and Noida remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Friday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index (AQI) of Ghaziabad on Friday was 377 against 360 a day earlier. Similarly, the air quality in Noida and Greater Noida also worsened. While Noida recorded an AQI of 376 on Friday against 336 a day earlier, Greater Noida witnessed an AQI of 382 against 308 on Thursday, showed the CPCB data. The condition has been persisting despite the share of stubble burning in PM2.5 has reduced and ranged from 12% to 2% during the period from November 14 to 19. On November 7, three days after Diwali, the share of farm fires had gone up to 48%, according to the data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar). Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that different agencies in both Ghaziabad and Noida are regularly taking up pollution control measures. “However, the prevailing conditions are due to trapped pollutants which are not getting dispersed due to low wind speed. The situation is likely to persist till November 21. We are awaiting orders from the state officials regarding the directions given by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region. However, our ground level enforcement has been strengthened with regular inspections, including night inspections, by our teams,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. Experts said that the government agencies have not done enough to deal with local pollution sources. “The prevailing conditions are due to local pollutants. The officials are still waiting orders from the UP government after the CAQM recently issued renewed directions to take up stringent measures like stoppage of construction activities, closure of schools, among others,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. Meanwhile, a forecast by Safar said on Friday that the AQI is expected to remain in ‘very poor’ category on Saturday even as the farm fire counts have reduced considerably. “Local surface winds are low with moderate ventilation of near surface pollutants. From 21st onwards, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality. Transport level winds are likely to be strong during November 21-23, flushing out locally emitted pollutants from Delhi to the south-east region that may improve air quality further to the lower end of ‘very poor’ or ‘poor’ in Delhi,” the forecast said. It added that the effective farm fire count is 1,077 and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 on Friday was negligible at 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/despite-reduced-fire-counts-air-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-remains-very-poor-101637350511770.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Covid, now pollution: Shutting schools taking a toll on learning||With the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) announcing the closure of educational institutions for in-person classes until further notice in Delhi, uncertainty has once again clouded learning in schools, many of which reopened for physical classes only two weeks ago.Several principals said that there is a lot of uncertainty and despondency among students due to the abrupt closure of schools, and advocated a more nuanced approach in response to air pollution.Manika Sharma, director, The Shri Ram Schools in Delhi-NCR, said that classes should be allowed in schools that were equipped with adequate infrastructure for countering pollution.“Schools like ours that already have air purifiers installed should be exempted from closure. We are all already masked up (to protect against Covid-19). That takes care of pollution as well. Now, we are doing more harm by compelling children to stay at home. This is something that should be looked into by the government,” said Sharma.School administrators and educators pointed to the toll the continuing closure of schools takes on students -- not just in terms of learning outcomes, but also social and psychological development.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said that it is crucial to come up with a workaround to tackle pollution so that children’s learning is not interrupted. Acharya said that the abrupt closure of schools has affected the mental health of children yearning to be back in classrooms.Schools in the Capital were closed for physical classes on account of Covid-19 last March and allowed to reopen in a limited way for students of higher grades early this year. They finally reopened for all classes on November 1 only to be shut again on November 13.“The blanket closure of schools is not the solution to the pollution problem. The government might not be able to provide exemptions to some schools due to logistical reasons but some sustainable solution that doesn’t disrupt learning is needed. Most people are going out and about. They are not locked up inside their houses due to pollution. Constant closure of schools both because of Covid and pollution gives the impression that they are the most unsafe places, which is not true,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.She said that the unpredictability and uncertainty from school closure has adversely impacted the learning environment. And the suspension of in-person classes for the past two years had also led to behavioural issues among children, she added.Other schools that have taken measures to tackle pollution within the campus said that doctors and experts could suggest measures for schools to function amid the prevailing situation.Richa Sharma Agnihotri, principal, Sanskriti School, said that the school has taken multiple measures over the years to ensure that learning is not disrupted on account of pollution. The school had created the area outside the premises into a no-car zone for the past many years. All classrooms are equipped with air purifiers and purifying plants have been placed across the school campus.“There is a constant conversation around pollution and we encourage children and their parents to avoid cars and walk,” said Agnihotri.She said that while the suspension of in-person classes was disappointing, one could not take the concerns surrounding pollution lightly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-now-pollution-shutting-schools-taking-a-toll-on-learning-101637350073439.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal of farm laws: Respite for embattled BJP, SAD in poll-bound Punjab||The repeal of the three contentious farm laws announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has come as a much-needed respite for the embattled Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab that votes in three months even though the protesting farmers are still to call off their stir.The BJP and its former alliance partner, SAD, have been at the receiving end of the farmer unions’ ire in the state that is the hotbed of the agitation. Their leaders have been repeatedly targeted by the protesters, who halted their movement, disrupted meetings and even laid siege to houses of some of them, in the past one year.Besides easing tension in Punjab where the stir started in August 2020 before spreading to Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh, the PM’s big announcement appears set to change the electoral dynamics by creating a level-playing field ahead of the elections, according to political experts.Crucial issue slips out of Cong handThe SAD and the BJP are now hoping for normalcy to return to the state following the Centre’s move to renege on an important decision so that they can run their campaign smoothly, while the ruling Congress, seeing an important issue is slipping out of its hands, has amped up its rhetoric on statutory guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) and other demands of the protesting farmers.Guru Nanak Dev University’s former head of political science department Professor Jagrup Singh Sekhon said the BJP agreed to withdraw the laws primarily with an eye on the crucial UP elections, but its impact would also be felt in Punjab where the party is not a major political player on its own in a four-cornered contest. “Pressure will be off from both the BJP and SAD. The Akalis have strong pockets of support in rural areas, but face trust deficit, whereas the Congress remains sharply divided. The AAP is still to get in the groove,” he said, calling the upcoming elections anyone’s game.BJP’s tie-up with Capt possibleFor the BJP, the doors have opened for a “seat arrangement” with former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who announced his separate outfit, Punjab Lok Congress, after quitting the Congress and the breakaway factions of the SAD. “I look forward to working closely with the BJP-led Centre for development of farmers and Punjab’s progress,” the two-time former chief minister said while welcoming the PM’s announcement to withdraw the controversial laws. Capt Amarinder had resigned from the CM’s post on September 18 amid a rift in the Punjab Congress.SAD hopes to recover groundAt the same time, the Centre’s decision is also a breather for the SAD, which had walked out of the NDA over the farm legislations, but has still been facing the heat for initially backing the laws. The Akalis also seem confident of regaining the support of the farming community, their core political constituency, and the rancor to peter out.Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science, Panjab University, said the scrapping of farm laws is a setback for the Congress, which adopted a soft approach towards the protesting farmers and has been counting on their support. “The BJP can fight on urban seats in alliance with Capt Amarinder who has acceptability in the Hindu community. There is, however, no chance of revival of alliance with the SAD before the elections as the latter has tied up with the BSP. It is a fluid situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-respite-for-embattled-bjp-sad-in-poll-bound-punjab-101637350331884.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal of farm laws: Much delayed, but a welcome step, says Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday termed the Centre’s decision to repeal three farm laws as much delayed, but a welcome step. “Had Prime Minister Narendra Modi taken this decision much earlier, several precious lives would have been saved,” he said in a statement, accusing the Centre of thrusting the legislations “arbitrarily” on the farmers without taking them into confidence. Asking the Centre to make its stand crystal clear on the minimum support price and public procurement of farmers’ crops, Channi said the Central government should admit on record to have made a Himalayan blunder in bringing these bills for which it hardly bothered to even relent for the past one-and-a-half years. The CM also demanded adequate compensation for the farmers for the humungous losses of life and property suffered by them. “A financial package should be announced to help the farmers and labourers reeling under the huge burden of debt,” he added. He said that the state government should also be compensated for financial loss and damage to property during the farmers’ protest. Hitting out at the rivals, Channi said that the SAD and the BJP had been singing paeans for the central government for these laws but with what face they would go to people now. “There was a nexus between Akalis, BJP and even Captain Amarinder Singh who made all out efforts to weaken the farm movement but in the end it’s victory of good over evil,” he said, targeting his predecessor. Channi, who was sworn in as the chief minister two months ago, said his government had outrightly rejected the three farm laws, besides repealing the contentious Contract Farming Act 2013 enacted by the then Parkash Singh Badal led SAD-BJP alliance government in the recently concluded special session of the state assembly.Channi said the Centre announced the repeal of these laws when it was left with no other option. “They have just made the announcement but we will wait till these laws are repealed in Parliament. They (Centre) cannot be trusted till then,” he said at a press conference convened at a short notice before demanding statutory guarantee for the minimum support price. The CM said the central government needed to guarantee MSP by law to regain this trust and this should be done along with the repeal of the three laws. There was a conspiracy to weaken Punjab by wearing down its agriculture sector but the Centre has had to back off due to the strength of democracy, he alleged, congratulating the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Channi also exhorted the farmer unions to join the fight against the Centre’s notification that extended the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km inside the international borer. “It is a big battle. We all have to fight together to reduce this (BSF’s operational remit) to 5km,” he said, urging the protesting farmers and labourers to get ready for this. Channi also hit out at the AAP for notifying one of the three laws in Delhi ruled by the party, telling them to also withdraw it. “A memorial will be set up in the memory of farmers who lost their lives during the protest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-much-delayed-but-a-welcome-step-says-channi-101637350091810.html
20-11-2021||Other||10-year-old girl succumbs to dengue, first fatality in Gurugram||A 10-year-old girl from Kadipur village is the first in the city to have succumbed to dengue this year on Friday. Health department officials said that the girl died at a private hospital where she was taking treatment for high fever. Data released by the district administration on Friday evening confirmed that one person died of dengue. The city has reported around 300 cases of dengue till date. According to the girl’s medical summary, a few days ago, she was admitted to a private hospital for high fever, which turned out to be dengue haemorrhagic fever that led to multiple organ failure. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram said patients should report immediately to the hospital if they have any dengue symptoms. “Any delay in treatment leads to complications, which sometimes proves fatal. All measures are being taken to check the growth of mosquitoes but still people must take precautions,” he said. Yadav also said that residents of urban villages and densely populated areas should particularly take precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10yearold-girl-succumbs-to-dengue-first-fatality-in-gurugram-101637349731681.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Traverse Vasant Vihar on wheelchair to ascertain useability: Delhi HC||Freedom of movement is a constitutional guarantee and it should not be hemmed in by the lack of civic amenities, the Delhi high court has said.The court, while hearing a plea on the concreting of hundreds of trees in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar, also ordered an official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to traverse the length of the colony’s footpaths on a wheelchair, without any help from anyone, to ascertain the useability of pavements.The court was hearing a plea by a resident who alleged inaction on the part of the authorities to preserve trees. The plea also cited non-compliance of earlier orders passed by the high court as well as the National Green Tribunal.“Citizens need to be empowered and facilitated in the enjoyment of their constitutional rights, for which provision of basic civic amenities is essential, like a safe and secure neighbourhood, and tree-lined avenues and footpaths, where an endeavour of a leisurely stroll is actually a pleasurable exercise and not an obstacle dodging, harrowing experience,” justice Najmi Waziri said in an order of November 15.The court said such a harrowing experience would discourage people from walking to neighbourhood shops, taking part in community bonding, holding cultural events, and spending their leisure time in parks.“Instead, people would use motor vehicles, adding to the city’s ever-burgeoning traffic congestion and unmitigated air pollution. So, it all starts with taking care of the neighbourhood trees and greenery and ensuring that the footpaths winding through the tree-shaded avenues are obstacle free,” the court further said.HT, on December 11, last year, reported how 80% of the trees in Vasant Vihar have been concretised. The story was based on a citizens-led tree census, which showed that of a total 4,993 trees on its streets, 3,859 were heavily concretised. The census also showed that over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off, and at least 793 trees were infested with termites.To ensure the useability of footpaths, the judge directed the executive engineer/ assistant engineer/ junior engineer of the SDMC, to traverse the length of the colony’s footpaths on a wheelchair without any aid or assistance from anyone.“This will test the efficacy of the SDMC’s efforts to make streets and footpaths user friendly,” the court said.During the earlier hearing on November 9, the court had sought the response of the SDMC and the Delhi Police on the concreting of hundreds of trees in Vasant Vihar. In response, the civic body submitted numerous photographs to the court and informed the court that it had removed the concrete from around several trees.The court noted that efforts have been made by the municipal corporation since the last date to rectify the lack of care for trees, while also recording the civic body’s assurance that the work will continue in earnest.Additional standing counsel for Delhi Police submitted that all assistance will be given to the SDMC for carrying out the court’s directions and for removal of encroachments and/ or obstructions on footpaths and other public spaces.The judge then directed that remedial measures be initiated in earnest and all concreting, beyond the road and the walking paths, be removed, no matter how deep the concreting was.The matter will be next heard on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traverse-vasant-vihar-on-wheelchair-to-ascertain-useability-delhi-hc-to-sdmcofficial-101637349551812.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt reconstitutes Covid deaths panel||The Delhi government has re-constituted the six-member panel tasked with investigating deaths due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, and award compensation up to ₹5 lakh, pursuant to a Delhi high court order in September that overruled the objections raised by the Delhi lieutenant governor to the panel.The committee, which was initially constituted on May 27, never took off as the Delhi lieutenant governor did not approve it.But, the Delhi high court in September allowed the constitution of an expert committee to probe the deaths related to oxygen shortage, stating that its function will not overlap with another Supreme Court sub-committee that was tasked with understanding what led to the shortage of oxygen, and what could be done to prevent such a situation in future.The overlapping of the brief of the two committees was cited as one of the reasons by the LG office for not granting the approval.“… pursuant to the directions of the Hon’ble High Court … the committee comprising of the following officers constituted to assess on case to case basis, complaints and/ or representations received regarding death due to lack of oxygen, for grant of ex-gratia compensation over and above the no-fault ex-gratia of R 50,000 already ordered by the government,” read the November 15 order, issued by deputy secretary of health and family welfare S Sunil. HT has seen the order.According to the order, the committee comprises professor of medicine at Lok Nayak hospital, Dr Naresh Gupta; senior anaesthetists from the hospital, Dr Amit Kohli; senior anaesthetist from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, Dr Sanjeev Kumar; assistant director of planning at the directorate general of health services, Surendar Kumar; medical superintendent of Mata Chanan Devi hospital, Dr AC Shukla, and medical superintendent of Tirath Ram hospital, Dr JP Singh.Calls to three of six committee members went unanswered; and a fourth member, on asked not to be named, confirmed that the committee has been “revived” but hasn’t met yet.“Yes, the committee has been revived but we haven’t received any notice for meeting yet,” the member said.The committee members remain the same, however, two additional terms of reference were added as per the November 15 order. The new terms of reference mentions that committee will pass a “reasoned order” only after examining all documents and asking the hospitals for an explanation. The committee has also been asked to conduct only a “fact finding” exercise and not assign fault to any hospital or nursing home, the order states.On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage. Later, health minister Satyendar Jain said that it was a “preliminary report”.In June, the Delhi government proposed another expert committee to ascertain number of deaths caused by oxygen shortage in the Capital during the last wave of the pandemic but Baijal did not approve it.On July 20, the central government told the Parliament that states recorded no deaths caused by oxygen shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic. With that, the AAP government in Delhi, revived its demand for setting up its own expert committee on the matter.On August 16, Sisodia sent a file to Baijal’s office for the second time seeking approval for setting up the expert panel and sought Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention in the matter. But, LG rejected the demand again.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22 respectively. Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in two separate incidents in two separate hospitals – Jaipur Golden and Batra hospitals.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on August 25 said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has written to the Delhi government that it does not need to form a separate committee for probing oxygen related deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic, citing a separate committee which is already working on it.“The central government’s fraud on deaths due to lack of oxygen has come out in the open. Union health minister is presenting false arguments to avoid investigation. He has written to us saying Delhi government does not need to set up a committee to probe deaths caused by shortage of oxygen because a high-level committee, constituted under the Supreme Court’s direction, is already working on the matter across states,” Sisodia then said in a video press briefing.Neither the task force set up by the Supreme Court, nor the sub-group formed in the states for oxygen audit is mandated to investigate the deaths due to lack of oxygen, the task force and the sub-group are mandated with configuring allocation of oxygen supply and medicines,” Sisodia added.On September 21, a Delhi high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that it does not see any difficulty in the constitution of the committee, which, besides finding the reasons for the death, will recommend the compensation amount for the families of those deceased.“[The] Supreme Court [order] is on logistics and not specifics... We take it that there should be over overlap,” the bench said, clarifying that committee will not overlap with the areas already being looked into by the subcommittees constituted by the apex court.Medical superintendent Dr SCL Gupta, of Batra hospital, where 12 critical Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor from the hospital, died on May 1 due to an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply, on Friday said that the hospital has received no communication from the committee.Dr DK Baluja, medical superintendent of Jaipur Golden hospital, also said that the hospital received no communication from the committee. Twenty Covid-19 patients at the hospital died on April 23 after a drop in the oxygen pressure because of the shortage.A senior official from a tertiary care hospital in the city, asking not to be named, said there was no mechanism to report deaths due to oxygen shortage so far because the last time the committee was disbanded as soon as it was constituted.According to the order, the complaints will be received by the nursing home cell of the health department both online and offline. The committee will meet at least twice a week either physically or through video conferencing, and it will be empowered to seek documents from hospitals such as supply records and stock position. It will also check what were the steps taken by hospitals for maintaining sufficient oxygen stock, the order said.“The committee will draw up an objective criteria to award compensation, limited to a maximum of R 5 lakhs in each case,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-reconstitutes-covid-deaths-panel-101637349372991.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Aftermath of farm laws’ repeal: Residents hope for a smoother commute soon||With one of the longest running movements in the post-Independence India being carried out right at their doorstep, local residents near the three key farm protests sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have had their share of good and bad experiences. Several local residents helped sustain the protesters, who were hundreds of kilometres away from their homes, but several others were frustrated by traffic snarls, long detours, and the loss of business that the stir caused.At the Tikri border, Dinesh Sangwan, a local resident who runs a medical shop which directly overlooks the main protest stage, said it has been an unprecedented experience for the area’s residents. “Yes, there is resentment among people, but the majority still supported the farmers during the protest. I remember that there was an acute drinking water shortage after the first two days last year, and all bottled water was exhausted. The locals then provided drinking water, and also sent milk, buttermilk and vegetables,” Sangwan said. Rajesh Lohat, another resident of the area, said that the protest helped bridging the Haryana-Punjab divide. “There has been a complicated relation between our two states due to water-sharing, Chandigarh, and language issues. But the protest has helped bridge the differences to a large extent,” Lohat said.Across the eastern border of the city, Prem Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad who was at the Ghazipur border on Friday, said his family has been coming to the protest site for the last six months and helping the farmers with odd jobs such as chopping vegetables, providing drinking water, and cleaning tents. He said they wanted to show their solidarity with the farmers. “We all come here in the evening and peel potatoes or peas, or do any other small jobs around here to help the farmers. My son is in college, so once his classes are over for the day, he comes here and listens to the speeches. These people have braved a lot over the last year and it is not easy to live outdoors, facing the heat, the rain and the cold,” said Singh.For commuters between Delhi and Ghaziabad, the Friday’s announcement by the Prime Minister that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, came as a signal that their daily traffic woes may soon come to an end. Brijesh Goswami, who goes from Delhi from Indirapuram daily, said people had to spend an additional 40-50 minutes on the road to reach their destinations. “Either we take a 3km detour from Anand Vihar while moving from UP to Delhi, or go through a narrow road passing through Ghazipur poultry market and Khoda Colony. A checkpoint at Khoda adds 30 minutes to 1 hour during peak traffic hours,” Goswami said.Manoj Kumar Saini, 42, who runs a budget eatery -- Janta hotel near the Tikri Industrial area -- said he supports the farmers’ demands, but added that businesses along the highway have been devastated by the protests. “Unlike the Singhu and Ghazipur borders, the Tikri site has a large number of shops and industries. After the pandemic-induced lockdown, the protest has been a second major blow to the economy of the area. “I used to employ 13 workers last year, but now I have only four because factories have shut down and there are no customers,” Saini said. Rituraj Jha, a worker in the factories agreed with Saini. “Almost 40% factories and units have closed down operations due to lack of road access and labourers have migrated as there was no work,” Jha said, and added that Covid also led to closure of businesses. Sham Singh, who works at a store near the Singhu protest site, said the government’s decision was relief. “Our mall remain shut for more than 70 days before we reopened it in February. We suffered huge losses. Although farmers are buying clothes and shoes from us regularly, the income is still very low. I hope that the protesters soon vacate the site and we start getting normal business again,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella association of various farmers’ groups that was spearheading the agitation, welcomed the announcement by the Prime Minister, but said that the future course of action will be decided after the core committee meetings on Saturday and Sunday. For now, the farmers continue to stay put on Delhi’s borders.(With inputs from Soumya Pillai and Fareeha Iftikhar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aftermath-of-farm-laws-repeal-residents-hope-for-a-smoother-commute-soon-101637349371810.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Town planning dept slaps notice on 17 plot owners for violating norms||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday continued its drive against construction activities in private colonies and issued notices to 17 plot owners for continuing with their illegal construction activity or for not storing construction material properly. According to the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Commission, construction activities have been banned in Gurugram and other adjoining districts due to high pollution levels. R S Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said notices were issued to nine property owners in DLF Phase 1 and eight owners in Uppal South End and Vipul World after it was found that they were violating the CAQM directions. “A penalty of ₹30,000 has been slapped on each property owner for violations. We have also received complaints from other colonies and action would be taken against the owners,” he said. DTCP officials said that while developers of large projects have ceased construction, they are receiving complaints that individual plot owners are still going on with construction activity in some pockets of private colonies. “We are continuously monitoring the situation but can’t reach everywhere. We request people from across the city to inform us about any such violation. We will take prompt action,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner. The department also asked plot owners and contractors to ensure water is sprinkled on sand and other construction material and that they arecovered properly. The drive will be further intensified and the focus would on curbing activities causing pollution in the next few days, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-town-planning-dept-slaps-notice-on-17-plot-owners-for-violating-norms-101637349314579.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz not offered at gurdwara in Gurugram||A group of Muslims visited the Sadar Gurdwara on Friday, and offered their greetings to the Sikhs who were celebrating Gurupurab even as no prayers were offered at any of the five gurdwaras offered to them by the Sikh community in view of the repeated disruptions by the Hindu right-wing groups. However, members of the Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha -- which manages five gurdwaras in the city -- on Friday said that their offer was only in “case of an emergency”. The development came after several Sikhs said that they will protest if the committee members allow Muslims to offer namaz on the premises of a gurdwara in the city.Members of the Muslim community said they had a plan to offer namaz at 1pm at the gurudwara, but members of some right-wing groups reached there to disrupt the Friday prayers. “Hence, we made a collective decision to not offer namaz at the gurdwara,” said Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ platform, and spokesperson for the Gurgaon Muslim Council. Sherdil Singh Sandhu, president, Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, on Wednesday offered the gurdwara premises for namaz, but on Friday said that it was only in case of an emergency. Sandhu said his intention was not to offer space of a gurdwara to the Muslim community. “This is not possible in any way. How can we let our religious place get into any kind of controversy. Anyone can use ‘guru ka darbar’ in case of an emergency,” he said. Sandhu further said that even the Muslims will not like to use the premises for offering Friday prayers. “We will not take a decision that can land us in any controversy. I urge people to not believe any rumour that we have offered our space to the Muslim community. We will not let this happen anytime in future,” he said. Meanwhile, members of some right-wing groups on Friday reached the Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha at Kamla Nehru Park in the Sadar area around 12pm, and met the gurdwara committee members and spent nearly two hours inside the premises. Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the legal advisor for Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, a right-wing outfit which has been protesting against offering of namaz in the open, said that they will not let the Muslims use their space for offering namaz. “We distributed 2,500 copies of a book titled ‘Guru Tegh Bahadur-Hind ki Chadar’ and paid tributes to Gur Nanak Dev. We asked the gurdwara committee members to not allow the Muslim community to use gurdwaras for Friday prayers. If the Muslims offer prayers in their houses or mosques, we have no objection,” he said. “After a discussion, the gurdwara sabha members have retracted their statement,” he said. Several police teams were also deployed at the Sadar gurdwara. A senior police official, seeking anonymity, said that the situation was under control at the gurdwara. Sardar Ravi Ranjan Singh, chairman of Jatka Committee, who released a video on Thursday night to criticise the decision of Sandhu, said that the gurdwara is only for Gurbani. “We held a meeting on Friday and criticised the decision taken without discussing it with other members. Gurdwaras are only for ‘Gurbani’. The president has assured us to reconsider his decision. No individual can take any decision without taking consent from others,” he said. Singh said there are many ways to promote peace and harmony, but ‘jagrarta’ in a mosque and namaz in a gurdwara is not logical. “We will discuss the issue with Sikh Sangat of Amritsar and Delhi and request for issuance of necessary direction,” he said. Daya Singh, president of All India Peace Mission and member of the Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, said, “We had offered adjacent school space to the Muslims but they refused to offer namaz there. We did not want any issue on the occasion of Gurupurab,” he said. Raman Malik, spokesperson of Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said, “Those who are opening doors of gurdwaras for namaz are making a political statement, but those who responsible for maintenance of gurdrawa should remember that Sikh panth was started for protection of Sanatana Dharma from atrocities of Muslims,” he said. Representatives of the Muslim community said that they decided not to offer namaz at the gurdwara to “avoid anything untoward on the occasion of the birthday of Guru Nanak”. A delegation of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch met gurdwara committee members and handed over a letter to them, thanking them for their generous gesture of offering space to Muslims for namaz. “The manch salutes Sherdil Singh Sandhu for becoming the torchbearer of a movement that will inspire many people in Gurgaon to follow in his footsteps,” stated the letter. Henna Ahmad, who was part of the delegation, said that Muslims may not have offer namaz at a physical space of gurdwara, however, crores of Muslims in India have read namaz sitting in the hearts of the Sikh community. “Since Thursday, members of right-wing groups were using condemnable tactics to mount pressure on the gurdwara committee to stop Muslims from offering Friday namaz. Since today was a big festival of Sikh community -- Gurpurab, a huge rush of Sikh devotees was being expected and we did not want to jeopardize the security of anyone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/namaz-not-offered-at-gurdwara-in-gurugram-101637349312882.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh SSP issues orders to transfer 28 cops to district crime cell||After the announcement to form a new district crime cell in the city on Wednesday, the UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) issued orders to transfer 28 cops in total to the newly formed cell. Out of this, four cops, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and three constables, were assigned to be the reader staff of the DSP district crime cell and 24 cops, including one sub-inspector (SI), six ASIs, eight head constables, seven constables and two senior constables, have been deployed as staff for the district crime cell.The cell was formed after a one-member police reform commission, headed by former IPS officer KB Singh, in a report submitted on August 29, had recommended separation of investigation and law-and-order wings of the Chandigarh Police for better efficiency. The report stated that when the same personnel were assigned investigation and law-and-order duties, it had a cascading effect on the probe and leads to delays. The Chandigarh Police already have two investigation wings — the crime branch in Sector 11 and the operation cell in Sector 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ssp-issues-orders-to-transfer-28-cops-to-district-crime-cell-101637349200739.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC chief for action against medical officer of health||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) commissioner has written to the secretary, local government, UT administration, recommending action against medical officer of health (MOH) Dr Amrit Pal Singh for alleged “misconduct”.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra has submitted a draft chargesheet against the official after “delay” in servicing a tender for providing manpower (122 drivers) for 96 twin-bin garbage collection vehicles, said a senior UT official, who shared the letter with HT.The letter to the secretary states: “He (Dr Singh) has misconducted himself during his posting as medical officer of health in MC, Chandigarh. Accordingly, a draft chargesheet has been prepared against him... Since he is on deputation from Punjab, the chargesheet is required to be served by his present department being his appointment authority (sic).”After the UT secretary’s approval, the chargesheet will be forwarded to the secretary, health, Punjab. Thereafter, the department can chargesheet the MOH on the basis of the draft chargesheet prepared by the Chandigarh MC.It is learnt that Mitra took serious note of the proposal for constitution of a technical evaluation committee being put up on November 16 when technical bids were already opened on October 27.The MC commissioner further observed: “This is an extremely important tender as with these 122 drivers... 96 vehicles shall become operational for door-to-door garbage collection of unserviced areas. This is a problem of immediate concern as we are facing NGT cases as well as falling back on the Swachta Survekshan front…This is gross misconduct and misleading statements have been made and an important tender delayed (sic).”Mitra has reportedly also chargesheeted a superintendent and a senior assistant posted in the MOH branch in the same case, it is learnt. ‘I was fighting with medical issues’When contacted, Dr Singh said: “There was some delay in the tendering process, but now it has been completed well in time even though I was fighting with some medical issues. So now, we will request our superiors to withdraw the chargesheet.”Recently, Dr Singh was also grilled by the councillors in the MC General House meeting for delay in inviting fresh bids to award the sanitation contract in southern sectors. He was questioned on his file noting seeking the total road length in the city from the engineering department even after the final tender document was ready, which councillors alleged led to the delay in tendering process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-chief-for-action-against-medical-officer-of-health-101637349199589.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||UP man held for posing as RAW officer, duping Chandigarh woman of ₹11 lakh||The police have arrested a 42-year-old man from Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, for impersonating a RAW officer and duping a 20-year-old woman of ₹11 lakh. According to the police, Monika of Sector 38 (West), met the accused, Nilutpal Mishra, on Facebook in October 2019. Nilutpal told her he was a RAW officer and sent her pictures of their operations. On February 14, 2020, the accused told her he was going on a mission to Siachen and asked her for money, claiming he had lost his wallet. She gave him ₹35,000 and then on various pretexts he asked her for more money. She gave him ₹11 lakh in total. Later, he faked his own death sending pictures of his cremation through a friend and the friend who had been talking on his behalf told her not to contact him anymore. A cheating case was registered on November 3. The cyber cell froze ₹30 lakh in the account of the accused. The accused was arrested on Thursday from Mathura. He was presented in a court on Friday that sent him to one-day police remand. The accused told the police that he was working in Delhi and after his account was frozen, he fled to Mathura. The police said he had also duped other girls through various social media platforms in a similar manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-man-held-for-posing-as-raw-officer-duping-chandigarh-woman-of-11-lakh-101637349198571.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Farmers rejoice Centre’s U-turn on agri laws||Celebrations broke out at the Matka Chowk in Chandigarh on Friday morning after the Prime Minister announced that the three contentious farm laws will be repealed. Activists who had been sitting at the iconic roundabout since March 6, braving the second wave of Covid-19, monsoon and police intervention, were in a jubilant mood, as they danced to the dhol beats and raised slogans for farmers’ unity. Labh Singh, the septuagenarian Nihang who has become synonymous with the protest against farm laws at the Matka Chowk, was all smiles too, but said his sit-in will continue to press for other demands. “We will see whether the government follows through with what the PM has said. We will continue to protest till the government also listens to our demands on minimum support price (MSP) and pays compensation to those who lost their lives during the agitation,” he said.Many Panjab University student outfits had also been participating at the Matka Chowk protest and turned up there on Friday to celebrate. “The PM’s announcement is the first step. However, radical changes are needed and the government needs to do more for the benefit of farmers,” said Sandeep, president of Students For Society (SFS). As the announcement coincided with Guru Nanak’s Prakash Purab, protesters could be seen distributing sweets and wishing each other on the auspicious Sikh festival. In the evening, they lit candles and waved flags at the busy intersection. Cops were stationed nearby to ensure law and order.‘Historic, but just half victory’ While terming the PM’s announcement “historic” and “victory of farmers”, various agricultural organisations in Mohali also welcomed the move.Lakhwinder Singh, block president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said the yearlong agitation of farmers has finally borne fruit. “The PM gave us a big present. However, the laws are yet to be repealed by the Parliament, and at present, this is just a half victory. About 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. Also, the government must roll back the electricity act and pollution act, besides bringing in a law to guarantee crop procurement on MSP.”Meanwhile, the organisation members continued to sit on a dharna at the Azizpur toll plaza and said it will be lifted only after a decision is taken by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.Manpreet Singh Bunny Sandhu, vice-chairman, Punjab Agro Industries, and a senior Congress leader, said: “After tasting defeat in the recent bypolls, the BJP government has knelt before the farmers’ demands. This pro-people movement had garnered a lot of support from all over the world.”Even BJP workers celebrated the occasion. Led by the party’s state executive member Sanjeev Vashisht, some of them reached the farmers’ protest site at the Phase 3/5 light point in Mohali and distributed laddoos to those present there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfarmers-rejoice-centre-s-u-turn-on-agri-laws-101637349197666.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Graft: HPSC officer sent to 4-day remand, recoveries mount to ₹3.3 crore||A Panchkula court on Friday sent Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) deputy secretary Anil Nagar to four-day police remand, a day after he was arrested in a graft case. The state vigilance bureau had arrested Nagar and two others for allegedly manipulating the marks of candidates who appeared in the written examination for recruitment of dental surgeons, conducted on September 26, 2021, and recovered ₹1 .07 crore.The other arrested persons are Ashwani Sharma, a resident of Jhajjar, and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani.On Friday, the bureau conducted more searches at residences of Nagar and one of his associates, and recovered ₹2.22 crore and property documents. With this the total amount of recoveries has mounted to around ₹3.3 crore.“Cash amounting to ₹2.1 crore belonging to Nagar has been seized from the residence of his associate, who had kept the bribe money on his behalf,” the official statement mentioned. Further, ₹12 lakh cash and a registered land deed for ₹50 lakh, laptop and digital media were recovered from Nagar’s house.Meanwhile, Nagar was produced in the court of judicial magistrate and remanded in four-day police custody.“Further investigation in the case is underway to ascertain more details of the criminal conspiracy and bring all culprits to book,” a VB official said.Nagar is a 2016-batch officer, who was posted as HPSC deputy secretary in March 2021. Earlier, he was posted as joint director, administration, secondary education, Haryana, and deputy secretary to government, Haryana, school education department. The FIR was registered on November 17, after Naveen Kumar, a government employee, was caught red-handed while accepting ₹20 lakh. Based on his confession and other evidence, the vigilance officials arrested Ashwani Sharma and seized ₹1.07 crore during a search at his house.According to the vigilance, Sharma was a “private player”, who received money on Nagar’s behalf. A trap was laid and Nagar was arrested while accepting the money from Sharma on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/graft-hpsc-officer-sent-to-4-day-remand-recoveries-mount-to-3-3-crore-101637349196606.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vehicles, vendors crowd streets in Ward 12||Stray dog menace, parking mess and poor maintenance of parks are top of the agenda for the voters in Chandigarh’s Ward No. 12 this municipal election.After the reorganisation, the ward comprises Sectors 15, 16, 17 and 24. Previously, these sectors came under three different wards. Sector 15 was under Ward 2 and represented by BJP’s Raja Bala Malik. Sectors 16 and 17 were with Ward 3, represented by mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. Sector 24 fell under Ward 4, which elected Sunita Dhawan of the BJP as the councillor.The ward is residential, commercial and institutional hub of the city. Sector 15 is known for a large number of paying guest accommodations and eateries; Sectors 16 and 24 predominantly have housing for government employees, bureaucrats and judges; and the Sector 17 is the commercial and institutional centre of the city.In Sector 15, the MC had allotted dedicated space to street vendors a couple of years back. Surender Sharma, a resident who plans to stand as an independent candidate in the MC election, says: “The situation in the ward has worsened in the last five years. The allotment of space to street vendors in the sector has created major problems for residents. But nobody is listening to our problems. We are tired of political parties not delivering.”In addition to the street vendors, Sector 15 residents complain about the mushrooming of paying guest accommodations, which particularly create parking problems.Parking woes, say residents in the ward, have increased in the last few years. Dr Madhurima Sharma, a resident of Sector 16 and an educationist, says: “The Sector 16 is managed very well. But the parking problem is getting worse every day particularly near the markets.”“Within the residential lanes, too, the problem has become so acute that during the night emergency, vehicles cannot pass through. We have sought authorities’ help, but so far nothing has happened,” says Anupam Mehta, a resident of Sector 16.Strays on the prowlEven stray dog menace is a problem across the ward. VK Jain, Sector 15 resident, says: “Senior citizens are afraid to venture out in the open as stray dogs are always on the prowl in the streets. The problem has become acuter now with the dogs moving in packs. Even though the MC repeatedly declares that it carrying out sterilisation drives, but we only see an increase in dog population.” In the neighbouring Sectors 16 and 24, too, residents complain of stray dog menace.Raj Bala Malik, BJP councillor representing Sector 15, says: “The stray dog menace is a pan-city problem. My opposition to settling street vendors in the area led to major reduction in the number of designated vends.”On the issue of poor park maintenance, Sunita Dhawan, BJP councillor representing Sector 24, says: “I got the RWA formed for proper management of parks. But they couldn’t manage it properly.”KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Sectors 15, 16, 17 and 24General WardVoters: 17,000 (approx)KEY ISSUESParking has become a major problem and creates severe traffic bottlenecksStray dog menace and poor maintenance of parksStreet vendors and encroachments in marketsLocal voicesAs there are no residences in Sector 17, it is totally ignored by councillors. We want a nominated councillor from the sector to represent us in the council: Neeraj Bajaj, 63, president, Business Promotion Council, Sector 17Some issues need immediate attention: Haphazard car parking, stray dog menace, small lanes, and irregular fogging against disease-spreading mosquitoes: Anupam Mehta, 75, social worker, Sector 16 residentThe street vendor problem is a major election issue in the sector. Also, stray dog menace should be solved on priority basis by the new councillor: VK Jain, 74, retired central government employee, Sector 15 residentThe market does not have a toilet which results in the whole place being used as an open lavatory. Also, the garbage is openly dumped near the shops: Rakesh Raman Sharma, 63, businessman, Sector 24 resident||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhvehicles-vendors-crowd-streets-in-ward-12-101637349195004.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||34 more infected with dengue in Chandigarh tricity||Though the dengue cases have started ebbing in Mohali and Panchkula with a dip in temperature, Chandigarh is still reporting over 20 cases daily. A total of 34 fresh infections of dengue were reported in the tricity on Friday with Chandigarh reporting 22 cases followed by seven infections in Mohali and only five in Panchkula. The tricity’s fresh dengue count was 38 on Thursday. After a peak of dengue infections in October, the fresh cases are now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature as the climate conditions are not suitable for aedes mosquitoes to breed. However, no death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on Friday.For this year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,732, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,336 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 843, with one death so far this year.18 fresh Covid infections in tricityWhen dengue cases are dipping in the tricity, the daily Covid-19 infection tally is increasing. As many as 18 fresh infections were reported on Friday against six cases on Thursday. Ten people were tested positive in Mohali while four infections each were reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula.So far in November, Mohali has reported two Covid-related fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula. On Friday too, no fatality was reported in the tricity.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 84, with 46 patients still being infected in Mohali, 27 in Chandigarh, and 11 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,398 positive cases, of which 64,551 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded to date are 68,905. Among these, 67,789 patients have recovered and 1,070 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,793 includes 30,403 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/34-more-infected-with-dengue-in-chandigarh-tricity-101637349193883.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC eyes 100% coverage with 96 more garbage vehicles||In another week, the Chandigarh municipal corporation will press into service 96 more twin-bin door-to-door garbage collection vehicles to achieve 100% coverage in the city, as mandated by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).“The additional vehicles will cover all markets in the city (around 200). Also, the vehicles will be used in areas that have fared poorly so far in garbage collection,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra. UT adviser Dharam Pal in a review meeting on the solid waste management targets set by the NGT had directed the MC to achieve 100% door-to-door garbage collection by November 30.Since the takeover of garbage collection, the MC has already deployed 489 twin-bin vehicles in the city. While around 400 vehicles were purchased at a cost of around ₹40 crore last year, 100 were earlier deployed in villages.The MC took over door-to-door garbage collection in December 2020, and has covered 85% of the city so far. There are 2.5 lakh households and commercial establishments that are to be covered. The takeover so far has bene marred with teething problems. There are issues related to MC vehicles not turning up on regular intervals and garbage not being picked from the doorsteps, particularly from upper floors. “As and when we receive a complaint, we immediately take action and ask the garbage collectors to follow rules laid out in the agreement signed with them. The MoU clearly stipulates that they would have to continue to carry on their duties as was earlier being done,” said Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-eyes-100-coverage-with-96-more-garbage-vehicles-101637349192843.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: HC grants default bail as Mohali police delay challan||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted default bail to a man held in a drugs case after the Mohali police failed to submit the chargesheet in stipulated time.The high court (HC) was dealing with a plea from one Gopi Jindal, who was arrested after the registration of a drug peddling case at the Dhakoli police station in Mohali’s Zirakpur on August 28 this year. On November 9, a Mohali court had dismissed his plea for default bail. Jindal had argued that the challan in the case has still not been presented. The forensic report obtained revealed that the total weight of drugs seized from him was 35.28 grams, whereas the NDPS Act considers seizure above 50 grams as commercial quantity. Therefore, it was not a case of commercial quantity and the challan in view of this had to be submitted within 60 days of the registration of FIR, the petitioner had stated.During the hearing, police had admitted that the quantity recovered from him was not commercial.The court, allowing bail, observed that for offence involving commercial quantity, the time limit for filing of the challan has been extended to 180 days. However, in the present case, the offence does not involve commercial quantity. Hence, the challan ought to have been presented within 60 days, and in case of non-presentation of challan, the petitioner is entitled to grant of default bail, which is a statutory right, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-hc-grants-default-bail-as-mohali-police-delay-challan-101637349191758.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram gets ‘very poor’ air for 5th day in a row||Pollution levels continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category with Gurugram recording an air quality index (AQI) of 323 as wind speed remained low on Friday. This is the fifth consecutive day that the air quality in the city is in the ‘very poor’ zone. With no rise in wind speed predicted till Sunday, experts said the air quality will remain bad as pollutants over Delhi and Gurugram are not getting dissipated. The air quality monitoring station at Teri Gram recorded an AQI of 333 while Gwal Pahari recorded 258. The AQI at Sector 51 station was 347 while the station at Vikas Sadan behind the mini-secretariat recorded an AQI of 357, which is the highest in the city. According to the IMD forecast, air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to improve significantly from November 21, owing to relatively strong winds, and hover in the ‘poor’ category. “The air quality over Delhi-NCT is likely to improve and reach in lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and ‘poor’ category on Sunday,” the IMD predicted on Friday. Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor at Teri School of Advanced Management, said currently, the windspeed was moderate at 2km/hour in Delhi NCR, which was not helping in dissipating pollutants, but is likely to pickup from Sunday onwards. “The cold winds coming from the hills are further reducing the temperature and the lack of local winds is keeping the pollutants trapped over the region. There is no control over meteorological factors but strict enforcement to curb local sources of pollution can help right now,” she said. Meanwhile, officials said they are doing everything possible to reduce pollution. R S Bhath, district town planner, (enforcement) said regular inspections are being done to ensure no construction activity is being undertaken and construction material is stored properly. “We are issuing challans if there are violations,” he said. Officials of the pollution control board said they are also checking construction sites to prevent violations. Vehicles are being checked to ensure there is no wrong parking alongside roads. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of state pollution control board, said all measures under the Graded Response Action Plan are being implemented. A spokesperson of the district administration said they are coordinating with all the agencies to ensure Grap directions are implemented. “All the civic agencies and other departments are coordinating to keep the pollution under control,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. According to the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-gets-very-poor-air-for-5th-day-in-a-row-101637349071629.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||A year of farm protests: Joy at Ground Zero, after 358 days||A year ago, when farmers from the agrarian states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh reached the Delhi borders to agitate against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre, they did not expect to be at the protest sites for 358 days.The occupants of the three border points -- in tents and trucks that morphed into shanties and makeshift cottages at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri-- on Friday burst crackers, danced, and sang to welcome the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Union government has decided to repeal the contentious laws.Though several of the protesters cautiously described the decision as a “half-victory”, it was not the surprise they expected on the morning of Guru Nanak Jayanti.“I was performing my morning prayers when a relative from Canada called up and informed me that the PM has announced they would repeal the three farm laws. I was shocked and exhilarated at the same time. But I still consider it a half-victory since we have been given only verbal assurance. We will only trust the government once they pass this decision in the Parliament and make it official. We will not leave before that,” said Karam Singh, a farmer from Bathinda who has been protesting at the Singhu border since last year.SinghuThe Delhi-Haryana border near Singhu village has become the focal point of farmers’ agitation over the past year. The protest site, which stretches up to 7km now, is dominated by farmers from Punjab and Haryana. Initially, farmers brought trucks and trolleys which served as their temporary homes. Gradually, concrete structures and air-conditioned trucks and have mushroomed amid an atmosphere of protest that is fuelled by several massive langars (community meals).In fact, the area has started looking like a small town in itself, with farmers even installing signage designating their own names for different areas on the Kundli highway.The stage area that was initially set up using tarpaulin sheets and bamboo sticks is now auditorium-like. The place has a makeshift hospital, a gym, a laundry service, a massage corner, and its own small gurdwaras.The agitation spot was only sparsely populated on Friday -- most farmers had gone back home, and were expected to return next week to mark November 26 as the anniversary of their occupy movement -- some protesters broke out into jigs near the main stage area soon after the PM spoke.Protesters said the resilience and support of their fellow farmers from across the country helped them continue the yearlong agitation. Surdev Singh, 54, a farmer from Malliana village in Moga district, said: “It will be difficult to say goodbye to the protest spot and other farmers as we have given a year of our life to this agitation. But I have learned the importance of peaceful protest.”GhazipurAt east Delhi’s Ghazipur border, where the protest has been spearheaded by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who emerged as one of the principal faces of the agitation, protesters distributed jalebis and ladoos to mark the PM’s announcement.The Ghazipur border, initially as an ancillary protest site, gained national attention in January when UP Police tried to remove the agitators days after the tractor rally on Republic Day plunged into chaos and violence across sensitive areas in the national capital. The protest regained momentum overnight as images of Tikait -- in tears and appealing to people to join him at Ghazipur -- went viral.Ram Kumar Sharm, 68, from UP’s Nithari, has been arranging a langar for the protesters at the Ghazipur border from the first day of the agitation. He said that to celebrate the announcement on Friday, he made ‘moong dal khichdi’ with ghee and curd for lunch.“We usually have rotis and rice along with a vegetable and some dal for lunch, but since today is a big milestone for us, we are distributing khichdi. I started the langar stand on the first day of the protest and since then, I do not let anyone who comes here go hungry,” Sharma said.Many also said that the last year has been tough for them. Nanak Singh, 70, from Moradabad, remembers how many of their fellow supporters, with whom they had developed a bond, passed away waiting for this announcement.“A friend that I had made (75-year-old Kashmir Singh Ladi) went to the washroom, and died there. Over 700 farmers have died during the last year. Do you think this has been easy?” Singh asked.Om Raj, 85, said an announcement by the PM was not enough to call off the agitation. But, when the government agrees to all their demands, and when he does return home, he will miss his new friends. He has filled over 10 small diaries with the names and contact details of people he made during the protest. “I remember each one of them. We will catch up over the phone,” he said, pointing at his small diary.TikriThe dusty protest site at Tikri border between Delhi and Haryana witnessed dim celebrations on Friday. While a section of youngsters was bursting firecrackers, the organisers issued appeals from the main protest stage to desist from using any celebratory fireworks.Jagmati Sangwan, from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)’s women’s protection group at Tikri, said there was certainly a feeling of happiness as three “black farm laws” were taken back, but the larger question was farm distress due to which thousands of farmers have committed suicide. “The monthly income of 86% farmers with less than 2-acre land holding is mere ₹6,286 -- even less than labourers in the unorganised sector. To make farming sustainable, we need MSP. It is a matter of life and death,” Sangwan said.Unlike the Singhu border protest site, with its relatively lavish langars, the counterparts at Tikri border have had a larger representation of farmers with smaller landholdings.Sweetened vermicelli and “kada prasad” was distributed at three places at the site on Friday.SKM leader Ruldu Singh, Mansa, president of All India Kisan Mahasabha, said the PM’s announcement came when they were celebrating Gurpurab. “We are still celebrating Gurpurab only. Several announcements have been made in the past, and we are not going back unless Parliament formally rolls back the laws. A meeting will be held by all farm leaders in a day or two,” he said.The trolley camps at Tikri are now restricted to the median of the road. On October 28 this year, police partially removed barricades from the border to restart vehicular movement. Heavily guarded by the central police forces, the narrow row of police barricades currently permits two-wheelers, ambulances and pedestrians to ply between Delhi and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-year-of-farm-protests-joy-at-ground-zero-after-358-days-101637348891621.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Few residents in Gurugram offer spaces to Muslims for Friday prayers||Amid the stiff opposition that members of the Muslim community are facing in several areas in the city for praying in the open, about 20 Muslims on Friday offered namaz at a vacant shop in Sector 12 that was offered by a resident last week. People from the Muslim faith said they have received offers from at least six residents, who are willing to let them use their premises for offering namaz.Haji Shehzad Khan, the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said they have been receiving offers since last Friday from people of different communities. “Residents from at least six residential areas have offered their commercial and private land to us to offer prayers on Fridays. We have received calls from new, old and developing sectors in Gurugram, where in people are asking us to offer namaz from their place and get rid of the harassment we are facing every week,” said Khan. “We do not want to disturb anyone’s routine and are accepting only vacant land where maximum people can offer prayers,” he said.Some of the places offered for the Friday prayers needed cleaning. Muslims said they would be able to use the land next week. Likhi Ram Jadwanshi, a resident of Indra Colony in Sector 52, has offered his land in Sector 12 (Sheetla Colony). “Muslims can offer namaz at my 100 yard plot, which is lying vacant. I have no plan to start construction in the near future. I will not come under any kind of social or political pressure and go back on my decision,” he said. Apart from Jadwanshi, residents from Sector 44, 46, 57, 12 and areas from Old Gururgam have offered their places, said Khan. Altaf Ahmad, a representative of the Muslim community , said they do not want to disclose all the names. “People have big hearts and are offering their private places. We do not want others to come under heat as protesters have been mounting pressure on those who are offering to help us,” said Ahmad. “We are receiving offers to use someone’s office space, their parks and vacant land. We have enough places to offer namaz but only if there are no disruptions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/few-residents-in-gurugram-offer-spaces-to-muslims-for-friday-prayers-101637348771784.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Protests against farm laws: Cops booked many, but charged a few||In 358 days since the morning of November 27 -- when farmers largely from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh started their sit-in protest against the three farm laws at three city borders -- Delhi Police filed at least 70 FIRs against the protesters in multiple cases. These include the Republic Day violence case and the Disha Ravi “toolkit” cases, according to officers aware of the matter.The cases relate to allegations of rioting, attempt to murder, obstructing police from doing their duty, and violating Covid-19 guidelines. Over 250 people have been arrested, who are all out on bail.HT spoke to several mid-level Delhi Police officers who confirmed that, of the 70 FIRs, police filed a charge sheet in only one case – the Republic Day violence. It is on the basis of a charge sheet, usually filed within 60 or 90 days of a case being registered, that court takes cognisance and starts a trial.With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing on Friday that the government had decided to repeal the farm laws, farm groups demanded that the government withdraw all cases related to the protests. Delhi Police officers said they were yet to receive any directions about the investigation or filing of charge sheets in the cases other than the one about the violence on January 26, 2021, when a tractor march by the farmers got out of hand, leading to clashes in which 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured. One of the farmers lost his life during the protest, but that appeared to be an accidental death.“The withdrawal of farm laws and the crimes for which the FIR was lodged are two different things. The incidents happened, so legally speaking, the cases have to be investigated. But because the charge sheets have not been filed, it is possible that we may be asked to seek legal opinion,” said a senior officer who asked not to be named.Another officer, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said a decision may be taken only after protesters vacate the three spots on the Delhi border that they have blocked for nearly a year. “The decision will be taken at the MHA level. But one thing is for sure. In the Republic Day violence case, police will proceed legally because the charge sheet has been filed,” the second officer said.During the Republic Day tractor rally, protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved route of the rally and clashed with police personnel. Protesters also entered Red Fort, vandalised the protected monument, and hoisted two flags -- one religious and one of a farmer union. Police said that the violence was a “well-planned conspiracy to defame the government”, but the farmer leaders distanced themselves from the event, some that some youngsters and “outsiders” got carried away.In a meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha(SKM) held on Friday at the Singhu border, one of the agenda items of the meeting was the cases filed during the movement. SKM is an umbrella body of at least 40 different farmer unions. Prominent Farmers leaders, including as Darshan Pal, SS Pannu, Buta Singh Burjgil and Rakesh Tikait, have been named in more than one FIR. Harinder Singh, SKM’s media coordinator, said: “Hundreds of fabricated cases were imposed on protesting farmers in Punjab, Haryana, and other states including the ones during the Republic Day incident in Delhi. All such cases should be dismissed.”Another farm leader, Om Pal Mallik, regional secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union(BKU), said they would only vacate the borders cases only after the cases were withdrawn. Apart from the January 26 violence case, another case related to the movement was that of Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist. Police arrested Ravi on February 13, accusing her of collaborating with pro-Khalistan groups to orchestrate the Republic Day violence. Police said that she held a Zoom call with these groups before January 26 to plan a “social media storm” during the tractor rally. They also accused her of sharing a Google “toolkit” with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, on which the social media storm conspiracy was detailed. But police have not filed a charge sheet in this case. Ravi denied any role in a conspiracy, and several experts have contended that toolkits were a routine exercise in planning social media campaigns for a cause.A police officer, aware of the case development, said that police are still waiting for replies from Google and Zoom on the IP addresses of the people who had access to the toolkit. “The case is with the cyber cell. It can only proceed if they share the details,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protests-against-farm-laws-cops-booked-many-but-charged-a-few-101637348651657.html
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Hindus play cricket, chant slogans to disrupt namaz at two sites in Gurugram||A group of residents and members of a Hindu outfit on Friday again disrupted namaz at two sites, designated by the city administration for Muslims to offer Friday prayers, despite assurances from the police that they will not allow disruptions. One of the sites where the prayers were disrupted was Sirhaul Village park, where prayers were disturbed last Friday as well. Protesters from the Hindu community raised religious slogans, following which Muslims shifted to another location. Namaz was also disturbed at the ground in Sector 37, where locals started playing cricket. Muslims offered namaz at the ground itself, but only after the police cleared the space. In Sirhaul, more than 40 members of Manavta Sanghatan, a Hindu group engaged in “social service”, and residents congregated at the park designated for namaz and started chanting religious slogans. “Last week, we informed everyone that we would not let anyone pray in the open. But Muslims again came to the park on Friday. We are adamant about not letting our parks be used for prayers. We will close the gates of the park next Friday and things may get ugly,” said Praveen Yadav (33), a resident. Haji Shehzad Khan, chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said when members of the Muslim community reached Sirhaul park, they were not allowed to offer prayers. “We are not troubling anyone, still people are not supporting us in many areas. Such incidents create differences between communities and we should try to spread love and peace instead of hatred,” he said. At Sector 37, around 15 men started playing cricket before Muslims reached the spot to offer namaz. The ground is opposite to the police station and Muslims had to seek the help of the police, who took almost an hour and a half to clear the ground. Sunder Chauhan of Khandsa village, who protested against namaz in the open, said they play cricket on the ground on their days off and the ground was not for any religious activity. “The cricket match was planned in September; and we will not allow Muslims to offer prayers in our area,” he said. Sachin Yadav, another resident who was playing cricket, said police asked them to allow the Muslims to offer namaz. “There is no ground in the village; this is the only space where children can play. Due to the namaz, our match was disrupted and we had to postpone it to Sunday,” he said. Police said Muslims who came to the spot for prayers did not have any permission document. Police have asked them to get a copy of the permission document next week, else they will not be allowed to offer namaz there. “We stopped the cricket match and got the ground vacated for Muslims to offer prayers. Both the groups had started arguing but we reached the spot and controlled the situation ,” said Sanjay Singh, station house officer of Sector 37 police station. On Friday, most Muslims chose to offer prayers at Sector 57 mosque, after the number of public sites for namaz was reduced from 37 to 20 two week ago. Namaz was not offered at any of the sites where objections were raised earlier, said officials of the district administration on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hindus-play-cricket-chant-slogans-to-disrupt-namaz-at-two-sites-in-gurugram-101637348300838.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC fines man ₹10,000 for appearing in a vest during virtual hearing||The Delhi high court fined a man ₹10,000 for appearing in a vest during a virtual hearing, saying that such conduct was “totally unacceptable”. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said the person, one of the parties in the case, should have appeared properly clothed. “During the course of video conferencing (VC), petitioner number 5 appeared through VC for identification by the investigating officer in his vest.The conduct of the petitioner no 5 in appearing before the court in his vest is totally unacceptable,” the judge said in an order dated November 8. “Even though the proceedings were being conducted through VC, he should have appeared before the court in proper clothes,” the judge said, adding that the cost be paid to the Delhi High Court Legal Services Committee within a week. The judge gave the order while hearing a plea seeking the quashing of an FIR related to domestic violence and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court was informed during the proceedings that the party had amicably settled the matter and the marriage had been dissolved. “Keeping in view the above facts and circumstances, since the matter has been amicably settled between the parties, no useful purpose will be served by keeping the case pending. It will be nothing but abuse of the process of law. “Consequentially, this petition is allowed and FIR...shall stand quashed,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-fines-man-10-000-for-appearing-in-a-vest-during-virtual-hearing-101637347871411.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks Centre, govt response on plea by oustees of Gol Market seeking flats||The Delhi high court has sought the response of the Union government and the Delhi government on a plea by more than 60 families, who had approached the court seeking allotment of flats as part of a rehabilitation scheme announced after their shanties were removed from Gol Dak Khana.Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MHUA), the urban development department of the Delhi government, and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) on the petition which contended that these families were illegally evicted from Gol Market in Central Delhi in 2010.The plea said ever since the eviction, and in compliance to an October 2011 order of the authorities, they are staying at a community centre which was turned into a shelter home.The plea said the eligibility of petitioners for rehabilitation was established and full payment has been made to the authorities for rehabilitation under a 2015 policy of the Delhi government, according to which the eligible families will get ownership rights over the allotted apartment.The plea challenged a December 2020 circular issued by the MHUA that said all vacant and under-construction houses under erstwhile schemes — Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JnNURM) and Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) — will be available as affordable rental houses for urban migrants and the poor.The petitioners submitted that even though they were entitled to be allotted flats by DUSIB and the MHUA as a part of the rehabilitation scheme, they have not been allotted the same on account of the December 2020 circular of the MHUA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-centre-govt-response-on-plea-by-oustees-of-gol-market-seeking-flats-101637347812674.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Study on clamping to check blood loss during caesarean hysterectomy acclaimed||Pune: A study by a team of city doctors on aortic clamping for limiting blood loss during caesarean hysterectomy has been published in the International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, the official journal of the apex body of the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO). The doctors who published the study suggested a modified technique of temporary aortic clamping which can significantly reduce blood loss and further complications. The study was conducted by a team of doctors from Pune’s King Edward Memorial Hospital (KEM) which includes Dr Vivek Joshi, director and consultant-obstetrics and gynaecology department, along with Dr Suhas Otiv, consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology, Dr Yogesh Sovani, consultant, urology and Dr Prasad Kulat, junior consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology. The placenta normally detaches itself from the uterus after delivery of the baby. However, due to previous surgeries on the uterus, like a caesarean-section, the placenta becomes pathologically stuck to the uterus and, in some cases, invades outside the uterus (placenta percreta). Dr Joshi said that in such cases the uterus has to be removed. He said, “A caesarean hysterectomy refers to removal of the uterus at the time of caesarean delivery and is a technically challenging procedure especially in placenta percreta due to massive bleeding which may occur during surgery. Currently, the technique used is the temporary aortic clamping which is an effective technique used during this procedure refers to clamping of the aorta which is the main artery coming from the heart and which supplies blood all the way down.” Explaining the suggestions made by the team in the study, Dr Joshi said, “We clamp it just above the bifurcation of the common iliac arteries, so that blood supply to kidneys, intestine, spinal cord and other organs is preserved, but the blood supply to the pelvis is blocked. Earlier the clamping was done all round the artery, but this could injure the lumbar vessels leading to paralysis of the lower limbs. We modified the technique wherein the same clamp is put from above covering only two sides and avoids posterior dissection of the aorta. Since the blood supply to other parts is maintained and blood supply to pelvis is blocked, the blood loss is limited significantly making the procedure safe and effective. This is becoming important as more C-section procedures are being performed especially in the last decade or so which is causing an increase in the incidence of placenta percreta.” Dr Joshi added that aortic clamping has reduced the blood loss from 3000-4000 ml to just about 650 ml. It would also reduce ICU admissions of such patients as complications are reduced. The simple technique of clamping can be mastered with practice by obstetricians under the supervision of a vascular surgeon, he said. The conclusion is based on a case study series of 15 women with placenta percreta who underwent a caesarean section with total hysterectomy at the hospital. The doctors had tried this technique of temporary clamping of the infra-renal aorta for reducing blood loss during hysterectomy. These fifteen women with placenta percreta underwent classical caesarean section followed by total hysterectomy with temporary clamping of the aorta. The procedure was associated with median estimated intraoperative blood loss of 650 ml. In addition, none of these women had ureteric injury or needed post-operative intensive care. Dr Joshi said, “Aortic clamping for 28-70 minutes was not associated with any intraoperative vascular complications or postoperative ischemic lesions in the lower limbs, kidneys, or bowel. After the initial successful results, we increased the procedures and till today we have used this technique in 26 women with similar outcomes. We feel that this should become a standard for management of such conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/study-on-clamping-to-check-blood-loss-during-caesarean-hysterectomy-acclaimed-101637347572427.html
20-11-2021||Other||Dev Deepawali: Diyas, laser show leave all spellbound||As the sun set on Friday, the iconic ghats of Varanasi were lit by 12 lakh earthen lamps on the occasion of Dev Deepawali, celebrated with spiritual fervour .Diyas were lit across the east bank of the Ganga and their twinkling reflection in the waters created a stunning view that left people enthralled. The laser show added to the beauty of the celebration.Dev Deepawali festivities begin on the Ekadashi Tithi of Kartik Shukla Paksha and conclude on the fifth day, which is the Kartik Purnima Tithi (full moon night). The festival is known as Dev Deepawali because on this day, the devas celebrated Diwali, after Lord Shiva defeated the asuras. Lord Shiva primarily defeated the asura Tripurasura and that is why, Dev Deepawali is also referred to as Tripurotsav.This year, the festival drew a large number of domestic tourists and a few foreign tourists who witnessed a magnificent spectacle of lakhs of diyas which were lit up at the same time and their reflection on the Ganga waters. A replica of India Gate was made on Dashashwamedh Ghat. At the same time Mahaarti of the Ganga was performed by Ganga Seva Nidhi (GSN) which organises Ganga arti daily at Dashashwamedh Ghat.The GSN paid tribute to martyrs by lighting Akashdeeps (skylamps), said Sushant Mishra, president, GSN and added that a resolution to keep the Ganga clean and to conserve the environment was taken.All the boats were beautifully decorated with digital lighting. People rode these boats and watched the Dev Deepawali celebrations on the banks.Tight security arrangements were in place at the ghats. Under the supervision of additional commissioner of police, headquarters and crime, Subhash Chandra Dubey, the nodal officer for the security arrangements on the occasion of Dev Deepawali, PAC personnel, police personnel were deployed at the ghats and NDRF men and water police personnel were deployed on boats on the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dev-deepawali-diyas-laser-show-leave-all-spellbound-101637347096609.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||2 held in Delhi for abducting, killing Haryana man, demanding ₹1 crore ransom||Two men were arrested on Friday for allegedly abducting and murdering a man from Haryana, and demanding a ransom of ₹1 crore from his family. Police said that the suspects had left their respective jobs and were on the lookout to make quick money. They befriended the victim when they found out he owned property in Rewari and belonged to an affluent family. Police said they abducted and strangled him to death while he was on a business trip to Delhi. Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer) Parvinder Singh said that on Wednesday, they received information regarding a body in Jawalpuri area of Paschim Vihar area. They formed a team and rushed to the spot where they found a policeman from the Kosli police station of Haryana at the spot along with the family members of the victim.Police identified the victim as Yogesh (32). His father, Satbir, stated that on Tuesday morning, Yogesh left their house in Rewari for Delhi. and, the same evening, his wife, Anjali, received a call from his mobile phone. Someone, who refused to identify himself, demanded ₹1 crore to free Yogesh.The caller asked Anjali to deliver the ransom money near Jama Masjid in Delhi. After the call, Yogesh’s family reached the Kosli police station and, along with HC Rakesh of Haryana Police, reached Delhi.Around 2am on Wednesday, the family reached Jama Masjid, but the suspects then asked them to come to Delhi Gate instead. When they reached Delhi Gate, they were asked to come to Daryaganj. As soon as the suspects came to collect the money, one of them was overpowered and caught while the other managed to escape.The apprehended person was identified as Tanveer Alam (22) and he disclosed the name of his accomplice as Mohommad Sarif (26). He told the police that they both strangled Yogesh on Tuesday. Alam then took the police team and Yogesh’s relatives to the house where they killed him.The Delhi Police, having been alerted, soon arrived at the spot.During investigation, raids were conducted at several places in Paharganj and Sarif was finally arrested from the area. Sarif also admitted his offence and corroborated the version of his co-accused Alam.Alam told police that on Monday, Yogesh called the suspects and told them he was coming to Delhi. The next day, they met at a rented flat, and the duo asked Yogesh for money, but he refused to give them any.The duo then tied him and strangled him, and made the ransom call to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-held-in-delhi-for-abducting-killing-haryana-man-demanding-1-crore-ransom-from-family-101637347093868.html
20-11-2021||Pune||Dengue, chikungunya on the rise in Pune during hot, humid Nov||Pune: With the city yet to see its normal mid-November winter temperature, hot and humid climate with unseasonal rains has led to a rise in dengue and chikungunya cases. The city has reported 72 confirmed cases of dengue and 27 confirmed cases of chikungunya till November 18 with figure same as October. Experts say that until the temperature drops, the number of dengue and chikungunya cases will not come down. As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department data, the city reported 228 suspected and 72 positive dengue cases and 27 confirmed cases of chikungunya in the past 18 days in November which is almost as much as the number that the city reported in October, considered as the ideal period for mosquito breeding and spread of these infections. In October, Pune city reported 408 suspected cases of dengue and 168 confirmed cases, and 38 confirmed cases of chikungunya. As of November 18, Pune city has reported a total of 2,697 suspected and 635 confirmed cases of dengue and a total of 245 confirmed cases of chikungunya. The civic body has issued a total of 2,488 notices and collected Rs1,56,950 in administrative fees as penalty after clearing breeding spots. As per the weather department officials, November is considered to be the beginning of winter in the city, but temperature fluctuations have been reported in the month with difference between the minimum and maximum temperatures touching at least 10 degrees Centigrade with strong rain spells. Rains add to water accumulation with the climate supporting the breeding of infection spreading mosquitoes. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC, said, “The hot and humid climate in October along with the October heat and the retreating monsoon all add to the ideal conditions of mosquito breeding. As the temperatures have not gone down in November, this also might aid the spread of dengue and chikungunya. Unless the temperature drops, it is unlikely that the number of cases might go down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dengue-chikungunya-on-the-rise-in-pune-during-hot-humid-nov-101637347091414.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||AAP demands compensation for ‘martyred’ farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday demanded that the Central government pay a compensation of ₹1 crore and provide jobs to the kin of farmers who died while protesting against the three farm laws passed last year. AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh demanded that the Centre give the status of “martyr” to each of those farmers who “sacrificed their lives” while protesting against the “three black laws”. On Friday, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi announced that the government would pilot the repeal of farm laws. At least 700 farmers lost their lives during the nearly year-long protests, which began in the last week of November last year.“The government has decided to withdraw the three black farm laws because of their (Bharatiya Janata Party’s) defeat in the elections [the BJP lost three Assembly and one Lok Sabha seat in the Himachal Pradesh bypolls earlier this month]... Farmers and the people were teaching them lessons in elections. Narendra Modi’s egoistic government had to eventually bow down before the long struggle, strength and sacrifice of the farmers,” Singh said.AAP MLAs, councillors, office bearers and workers joined the protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Friday to congratulate, share sweets and celebrate with the farmers. AAP MLAs Sanjeev Jha, Ajesh Yadav, Bandana Kumari, Mohinder Goyal, Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, Mukesh Ahlawat, Jarnail Singh, Azadpur Mandi chairman Adil Khan met the protesting farmers. In a statement, AAP spokesperson and co-in charge of the political affairs in Punjab Raghav Chadha also congratulated farmers. “It’s big victory for the farmers of the country. I congratulate the farmers for the success of their long struggle. An egoistic government of the country had to kneel down. We salute the farmers of the country and their “inquilab” (uprising) and pay tribute to those farmers who sacrificed their lives (during the protest),” he said. Last September, the government passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act in the Parliament.​​Farmers were deeply sceptical of the laws they said would leave them at the mercy of big corporations, which could rig down prices. They also feared the changes would dismantle a system of state-backed regulated markets which offered assured farm prices. Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding year-long sit-ins at four sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa, and also at Shahjahanpur (at the Rajasthan-Haryana border).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-demands-compensation-for-martyred-farmers-101637346856086.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Inflation rate lowest in Delhi compared to 5 metro cities: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said the Delhi government has efficiently managed to keep the inflation under control in Delhi, even during the Covid-19 pandemic. “During Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi recorded the lowest rate of inflation among the five Metro cities of the country. In the financial year 2020-21, the increase in inflation in Delhi was 3.0%, whereas, it was 4.6% in Kolkata, 4.4% in Chennai, 4.1% in Mumbai and 4% in Bengaluru. Delhi’s increase in inflation was, in fact, 2% less than the national rate. In the financial year 2020-21, an increase of 5% was recorded in the inflation rate nationally,” Sisodia said, while releasing the annual price index report prepared by the directorate of economics and statistics.Sisodia said the average annual inflation growth rate based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) in 2020-21 was only 3% in Delhi as compared to 5% nationally. The housing index, according to the report, saw an increase of 5.2% nationally in fiscal 2020-21, but in Delhi, the rate was only 3.9%. Also, the national inflation rate for food prices was 5.7%, but in Delhi, it was only 4.1%, which is the lowest in the country, he said.“The Delhi government is constantly monitoring the prices of essential commodities and is making efforts from time to time to control and stabilise the prices of commodities through timely market interventions,” the minister, who also hold the finance portfolio, said. As a result of all these measures, Delhi is more affordable to live in as compared to the other cities, he said.  “The timely measures adopted by the Kejriwal government, kept the prices of commodities in Delhi stable during the Covid-19 period and did not increase much. The government is constantly monitoring the prices of essential commodities,” the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/inflation-rate-lowest-in-delhi-compared-to-5-metro-cities-manish-sisodia-101637346855067.html
20-11-2021||Pune||PMPML plans e-cab service with women-only facility||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has proposed e-cab facility, including dedicated service for women passengers, for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities. The authorities claim that its transport facility’s fare would be cheaper and reliable than Ola and Uber. The public transport utility representatives said that concerns have been raised by women over travelling in private cabs and the proposed e-cab special service would be a reliable facility as it will be managed by government organisation. PMPML also plans colour code for women-only e-cabs with women drivers. PMPML president and managing director Laxminarayan Mishra said, “If PMPML would purchase these e-cabs, the service would be profitable for both commuters and PMPML, besides being safe for women passengers.” PMPML has submitted the proposal before the board of directors and the meeting is scheduled next week. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The PMPML chairman has submitted the proposal. Mayors of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and their standing committee chairpersons would take appropriate decision at the scheduled meeting. It is the government’s policy to promote e-vehicles.” As per the PMPML proposal, the e-cab service would be affordable than private players. The transport utility plans to compete with private firms by launching app, digital payment and advertisement facilities. It claimed that the implementation of the plan will generate jobs for locals. Travel facility for twin cities, and safe ride for women passengers Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) proposes e-cab facility for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities The planned transport facility Total e-cabs: 100 Total expenditure for PMC and PCMC: Rs13.5 crore e-cab running per day: 150 km per day Expenditure per km: Rs1.80 Two drivers on each e-cab for two shifts Driver monthly salary: Rs18,000 Cost-effective drive Comparison between Ola, Uber and PMPML-run e-cab facility. The calculations based on 20km travel unit Private cab service Mini (Ola, Uber) fare: Rs260 for 20km Private cab service (Ola/Uber) for premium: Rs358 for 20 km Mumbai taxi service for 20km: Rs338 Pune auto for 20 km: Rs234 Proposed PMPML e-cab service fair for 20 km: Rs200 Highlights of e-cab service Concession for senior citizens and disabled passengers It will run 24x7 It would have connectivity for metro stations, malls, airport, railway station, IT hub Mobile app, QR code, online payment, smart card facilities would be made available Central control room Safety features for women passengers and supported by government agency Charging stations at PMPML properties||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-plans-e-cab-service-with-women-only-facility-101637346852521.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest gang of interstate vehicle thieves||Four men, part of an interstate gang of vehicle thieves who allegedly sold vehicles stolen from the NCR in Manipur, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, were arrested Friday, Delhi Police said. Preliminary investigation by the police has revealed that the gang was controlled by a man in Dubai. Police said they seized 21 cars, including 10 Toyota Fortuners and four Hyundai Creta, from the suspects. The cars recovered by the police were stolen from Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana, said police. Deputy commissioner of police (south west) Gaurav Sharma said the four men have been identified as Abid (30) (identified by his first name) from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh, Mohammed Asif(33) from UP’s Meerut, Sagolsem Johnson Singh(27) from Manipur and Salman (identified by his first name) from Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Police said Johnson received the stolen vehicles in Manipur, changed the engine numbers of the vehicles (with the engine number of those sent for scrapping) and sold the vehicles to prospective buyers. Police said that one of the key members of the gang, identified as Sarik Satta, is operating the gang from Dubai. Satta, a resident of Moradabad, has been arrested for stealing cars on several occasions by Delhi police. He was last arrested in 2018 and had come out on bail, after which he fled to Dubai, said police. Sharma said in the present case, police conducted raids and seized the stolen cars from the insurgency-hit areas in Manipur.“The first to be arrested was Abid, who was arrested from Uttam Nagar. He said he acts as a carrier in the gang. On October 3, he received a stolen Fortuner from three people at Delhi’s Kashmiri Gate and then handed over the car to Johnson and another person named Vidyasunder at Imphal (Manipur).”Abid also told police that there are many vehicle thieves operating with their accomplices in Manipur.Police are now working on identifying the other members of the gang. Police had started the probe in the theft of the Hyundai Creta, which was allegedly stolen from Safardjung Enclave in October. Motor vehicle theft is the most common crime across the city. Until October 30 this year, at least 31,374 vehicles have been reported stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-gang-of-interstate-vehicle-thieves-101637346791532.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS arrests Delhi airport customer service executive in human trafficking racket||The UP ATS (Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad) on Thursday arrested a Delhi airport customer service executive for allegedly helping the members of an international racket involved in human trafficking from Bangladesh and Myanmar to European, Gulf and Southeast Asian countries on Indian identities, Uttar Pradesh police officials said here on Friday.The officials said a Lucknow court has granted his 10 days’ custody to UP ATS to interrogate the Delhi airport customer service executive about other airport and airlines staff suspected to be involved in this racket.Additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said the arrested accused was identified as Ajay Ghildiyal, a resident of Dehradun in Uttarakhand.He said the accused has been working as a customer service executive at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in New Delhi since 2016.Another senior police official said Ghildiyal came in contact with Vikram Singh, a key member of the international human trafficking racket who was arrested earlier in this connection, in 2020 and since then he is helping those involved in the racket to clear the boarding passes of people being sent to European countries illegally on fake identities. He said Vikram Singh was arrested from his hideout in Ghaziabad on November 10.The officer also said Ghildiyal used to get ₹15000 for clearing the boarding pass per person and he used to share this with other airport and airlines staff to get their favours. The accused revealed that he has so far helped send over 40 people to Spain, Britain and other European countries illegally, the officer said.He also said the Delhi airport customer service executive is part of a widespread international network of human traffickers operating from South Africa and London (England).He said seven members of this international human trafficking racket have been arrested so far. He said the traffickers helped Bangladeshi nationals to get Hindu names and Indian passports by preparing their fake address proofs like Aadhaar card and voter ID cards. He also said the Bangladeshi nationals are later sent to different countries as Indian nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-arrests-delhi-airport-customer-service-executive-in-human-trafficking-racket-101637344691215.html
20-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi dedicates ₹2,655 crore Arjun Sahayak irrigation project to people in Mahoba||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday dedicated the ₹2,655 crore Arjun Sahayak irrigation project to the people in Mahoba district of Bundelkhand in Uttar Pradesh and said it would end the water woes of farmers in the drought-prone region. He also charged the previous Samajwadi Party government with non-cooperation in ending the region’s water scarcity. PM Modi was addressing the farmers for the first time since he announced the decision to repeal the Centre’s three contentious farm laws earlier in the day.“This project will benefit lakhs of farmers, they will get the water they have been waiting for generations in Bundelkhand,” he said.PM Modi also said that Mahoba is a witness to how the government has been brought to every nook-and-corner of the country from the closed doors of Delhi in the past seven years.Arjun Sahayak irrigation project is a flagship of project of the Uttar Pradesh government centering around providing water for drinking and irrigation in Mahoba.Quoting a couplet of Guru Nanak Dev on the importance of water in the Punjabi language, he said the project had remained a non-starter for years.“I discussed this crucial project with the then government many a time in 2014. They did not show any interest. It was the lifeline of this region,” PM Modi said.The work began under the Yogi Adityanath government in 2017 and has been completed in record time, he said.Asserting that the government was committed to the welfare of Bundelkhand, he said the previous government and “family-owned” political parties looted the region, its people and resources.“Those who kept cutting ribbons in the name of Bundelkhand’s ponds and water bodies for farmers did not allow a single penny to reach them,” he said.On the other hand, the water mechanism that the erstwhile rulers of Bundelkhand established had given the region prosperity and fame, he added.“I want to ask those parties, which ruled UP and Delhi, how this naturally gifted region became synonymous with struggles for water to an extent the people did not want to marry off their daughters in this region?” he said.“Let me tell (you) they worked for their families, there was corruption and commission, and you (farmers) remained desperate for a single drop of water,” he said, alleging that previous governments handed the region over to the mafia.These parties were creating ruckus when the Yogi government was bulldozing the mafia in Uttar Pradesh, he said.“No matter how much trouble they create, the development of state would not stop,” he said, adding, “They were not tired of looting the UP and we are not tired of serving the people.”He said many water related projects were underway under the Yogi Adityanath government. The government found the solution for the Ken- Betwa link in consultation with the stakeholders, the prime minister said.The linking would help lakhs of farmers in the days to come, he added. He said the problems were similar to those that prevailed in Gujarat where the Sardar Sarovar dam project allowed water to reach even the arid areas of Kutch.“I am from Gujarat and I understand your issues. Ee will replicate the success of Gujarat in Bundelkhand,” he said.Like people of Kutch in Gujarat earlier, the people in Bundelkhand had to migrate but this would change and a new life would be given to the region, he said. The PM said his government has taken a number of steps for welfare of farmers, including providing neem coated urea, the best seeds that give high-yield with low use of water and made record purchase of crops and increased minimum support price.He said he felt blessed in Mahoba from where he launched Ujjawala 2.0 scheme and had made a promise to Muslim women with regard to triple talaq.“From Mahoba, I promised my Muslim sisters that I will get rid of triple talaq for them. Today I am here to give my Bundeli sisters and farmers the best and biggest gift of this project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-dedicates-2-655-crore-arjun-sahayak-irrigation-project-to-people-in-mahoba-district-of-uttar-pradesh-101637332089998.html
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal of farm laws highlights PM’s supreme character: Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three farm laws, made today on the auspicious occasion of Gurpurab, said that repealing these laws has once again highlighted the supreme character of the Prime Minister.Addressing the media at his residence on Friday, Khattar said, “Ever since the Central government had brought the three agriculture laws for the benefit of farmers, especially small and marginal one’s, some farmers’ union had been protesting on the Delhi borders.”“Today, Prime Minister Modi, while once again choosing the larger public interest, announced to repeal these laws. However, soon after the introduction of these laws, a large number of farmers had considered these laws beneficial for them and had also appreciated the Central Government,” said Khattar.The Haryana chief minister said the decision of the Prime Minister shows that keeping the interest of the public is paramount for him as he announced to roll back these laws in the upcoming parliamentary session.“Like Prime Minister, I would also urge farmers sitting on Delhi borders, to immediately end their protest and return to their homes, as common man is also facing lot of difficulties due to this agitation. Now, positive attitude should be adopted towards this issue,” said the Haryana CM.Khattar said the Prime Minister has also said that a committee will be constituted for considering the farmers’ demands related to MSP. “In this committee, representatives of farmers’ unions, state governments and scientists will be included. I hope a decision in this regard will also be taken soon,” he said.Farmers should not worry now, there is no scope of showing distrust towards the Prime Minister, said Khattar.Responding to a question regarding withdrawal of cases registered against farmers, the Haryana CM said that in these cases, many other issues are taken into consideration, some cases are general while in some incidents, cases are registered under serious sections. “Now, a positive initiative will be taken from the state government’s side too and there will be no controversies,” assured Khattar.“Haryana has faced a major impact of this agitation and during this one year, I have held various meetings with the Prime Minister, senior leaders and even with farmer unions. As many as 11 formal meetings were held with the farmers on this issue, along with many informal meetings for sharing their message with the Centre. I think the effort put in by us has also played an important role in the decision taken by the Prime Minister,” said the CM.“The announcement made by Prime Minister today has certainly got mixed reactions as some have lauded him for this, while others are still not satisfied. I would urge the farmers that they should not worry now and trust the Prime Minister’s announcement,” said the chief minister while responding to a question regarding farmer unions showing distrust towards Prime Minister.Khattar said even the Opposition has also shown trust. ‘Linking this decision with elections is not logical’Responding to another question regarding Prime Minister suddenly announcing the repeal of these laws, Khattar said this decision has not been taken overnight, talks over this have been going on for a long time. “Linking this decision with elections is not logical and justified. Elections come and go. By taking this decision, Prime Minister has certainly shown a big heart. He has once again proved that he is a common man’s leader,” said Khattar.The CM also extended greetings on the occasion of Kartik Purnima and Gurpurab to the people of the state.Will urge Centre to withdraw cases against farmers: DushyantHaryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said it is a welcome decision that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken to withdraw the three farm laws. The deputy CM said he will urge the central government to withdraw cases registered against farmers in Haryana, Punjab, and Delhi during the agitation. He said the cases which are not very serious should be withdrawn while the court will deal with cases of serious nature. “PM Modi has taken a commendable decision in view of the long struggle of the farmers. It is the victory of the farmers’ struggle,” he said. He said the farmers’ struggle went on for a long time because the benefits of the laws were not publicised well and due to this, the image of these new laws were reflected in a bad light.He added that the PM himself admitted that there is a lack of understanding about the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-says-repeal-of-farm-laws-highlights-pm-s-supreme-character-urges-farmers-to-return-home-101637323688891.html
20-11-2021||Delhi||Submit data on complaints: Delhi assembly panel to Facebook||The committee on peace and harmony of the Delhi assembly, inquiring into the northeast Delhi riots that took place in February 2020, on Thursday sought a series of clarifications and information from Facebook India on steps taken by the social media giant in curbing and taking down inflammatory content and fake news in the country.The committee sought to know the company’s organisational capacity to handle and gate-keep the high volume of content from India, which accounts for almost 40% of Facebook’s total users globally.Facebook India’s (Meta platforms) public policy director Shivnath Thukral and its associate general counsel Saanjh Purohit deposed before the committee chaired by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha on Thursday. Representatives of Facebook India were first summoned to appear before the panel on November 2, but the hearing was postponed to November 18 on a request from the company.The proceedings of the committee, which went beyond the scheduled limit of two hours, were significant because it was the first time that people could see lawmakers question Facebook India officials and hear their answers on issues ranging from hate speech to their system of fact checking. The social media giant informed the panel that it has one billion users across the world, of which at least 400 million are from India.Chadha and committee member BS Joon, also an AAP MLA, asked Facebook India to furnish data on user complaints and the subsequent action taken by the company in each case for a period of one month before and 60 days after the February 2020 riots in Delhi, in which 53 people were killed. Thukral said offensive material is removed from the platform by employing human reviewers and artificial intelligence. However, he acknowledged that these tools are not always perfect and there is still scope for improvement.The panel grilled Thukral and Purohit on whether the company has a definition of “hate speech”, especially in the Indian context. To this, Thukral replied: “Hate speech definition is very much there in the community standards. But it is ever evolving. For example in India, based on the inputs from civil society, we included caste slurs in the evolving definition of hate speech. Our community standards are a global document. We believe hate speech definitions apply uniformly across the world and whenever there are local considerations we would take them into account.”From time-to-time, the panel members and the Meta Inc officials kept referring to each other paragraphs from the Supreme Court’s July 8 order which upheld the powers of the Delhi assembly to summon both members and non-members, including representatives of Facebook. The order, however, said the panel could not engage in topics dealing with police, law and order, or land in its proceedings as these subjects are outside the purview of the committee as well as the elected government.Asked what actions were taken to curb inflammatory content during the riots last year, the representative said, “This is a matter of law and order and it is part of an ongoing investigation. Also, as per the SC judgment, I exercise my right to not comment on it.”The SC order came after Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan moved the Supreme Court on September 22 last year, challenging similar summons issued by the peace panel on September 10 and September 18. The summons stemmed from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show that the social media company may have acted in a politically partisan manner.Facebook India was also asked to provide details on the composition of its team based on religion. “Explain the composition of the Facebook India team including the number of religious minority employees. What is the religious affiliation of people working in Facebook India?”Chaddha asked. To this, Thukral said, "As far as we understand, Indian laws don’t allow us to differentiate based on religious affiliations when we hire. We do not ask such questions. As per IT laws, there is due diligence that we follow."Thursday’s proceedings also revealed that Facebook India had no dedicated grievance officer for the country when the riots took place last year. Thukral informed the panel that a grievance officer for the company’s India operations was appointed in May this year.Other questions to which the social media giant did not give clear answers included whether their fact-checkers are audited, how do they ensure their civil society partners are not biased, the basic criteria for recruiting the grievance officer, how its algorithm works, and whether it played any special role in curbing hate speech during and after the 2020 riots. The company was asked if it has a dedicated content policy team in India for the country and whether there is any gradation of hate speech.Chadha asked Thukral how many languages Facebook hosts on its platform and whether it has fact-checkers for each. Thukral replied that Facebook India hosts 20 languages but has a (fact checking) system which covers only 11 of those. He said Facebook detects problematic content on the platform and at least 97% of it is removed. In case of a user complaint, acknowledgement is given in 24 hours and the entire cycle to work on the complaint is completed within 14 days. In September, 182,000 pieces of content were removed from the platform, Thukral said.Chadha said the committee will take into account the information presented before it after Thursday’s proceedings. “Given the vast user base in India, it is always imperative for the global headquarters as well to intervene and account for the shortcomings and improvements in the market specific to the Indian context. The committee will further deliberate and decide on recalling the Facebook officials for another round of proceedings and examination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/submit-data-on-complaints-delhi-assembly-panel-to-facebook-101637261403300.html
