22-11-2021||Pune||BJP, NCP join hands to approve adaptive traffic signal project for Pune city||PUNE The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) came together to approve an adaptive traffic signal project in the city. Adaptive traffic signals adjust the timing cycles to match current traffic conditions on the ground. They are constantly collecting data about approaching vehicles and creating new timing sequences to match them.This is the second time both parties have come together ignoring the Congress and the Shiv Sena. The Congress on Monday accused the NCP and the BJP of joining hands on proposals related to big budgets in Pune Municipal Corporation. NDP’s city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Our leader Ajit Pawar clearly instructed us not to do oppose proposals just because we are in the opposition. If any project is in the interest of the city nad citizens, we will support it.”BJP leader Ganesh Bidkar said, “It is the city’s tradition that for development projects, there is no politics. NCP came with us.”Meanwhile, the PMC on Monday okayed the appointment of a consultant for the 24x7 water project planned in 23 merged villages. The project is going on in the old city limits. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The water project is going on in the old city area and the 23 villages got merged later. It is PMC’s responsibility to provide good water supply in newly merged areas.The consultant will prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-ncp-join-hands-to-approve-adaptive-traffic-signal-project-for-pune-city-101637605790759.html
22-11-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC asks CBI to probe 2016 school recruitment; Bengal govt may challenge order||The Calcutta high court on Monday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into alleged irregularities in the appointment of 25 group ‘D’ employees in schools run by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE). The single bench of justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay, while hearing a petition filed by some unsuccessful applicants, said on Monday that a CBI officer of the rank of deputy inspector general and a state bureaucrat of the rank of joint secretary have to complete the preliminary probe and submit a report before the court by December 21 when the next hearing will take place. The petitioners alleged that genuine applicants were deprived as ineligible people got jobs in state-run schools during the recruitment drive that started in 2016. They also alleged that the number of ineligible people recruited could be around 500 and many of them were inducted after the tenure of the panel expired. In 2016, the state approved the appointment of around 13,000 group ‘D’ staff in phases in state-run schools, said lawyers aware of the details of the case. The West Bengal School Service Commission (WBSSC) interviewed the applicants and drew up a panel of prospective employees. The validity of this panel ended in May 2019. The petitioners were heard twice last week. During the first hearing, justice Gangopadhyay pulled up the state government and warned that he would ask a Central armed police force to take control of the office of the WBSSC and tell the CBI to scrutinize all records. During the second hearing on Thursday, the WBSSC told the court through an affidavit that the 50 recruitments under the scanner were illegal as it did not clear these people. The commission also sought an inquiry by a retired judge of the Calcutta high court, indirectly implying that ineligible people were recruited by the board of secondary education. The court asked the WBBSEE to file an affidavit on Monday, said lawyers representing the state. Justice Gangopadhyay on Monday turned down the WBSSC’s suggestion to have an inquiry conducted by a retired judge. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wasted no time and accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of indulging in widespread corruption and depriving jobless youths of the state. “I appeal to all those who applied for jobs in different state departments to come forward and seek justice. This corruption is deep-rooted. Only the CBI can unearth it,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. Bengal education minister Bratya Basu was in Tripura where TMC leaders, headed by the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, had rushed to following the arrest of TMC youth wing president Saayoni Ghosh and attack on some party workers in the run-up to the November 25 civic body polls in which the party has challenged the ruling BJP. “I do not have details of the high court order. Our government may decide to challenge it in a higher court,” Basu said in Agartala. State officials in Kolkata refused to comment. During the last hearing on November 18, justice Gangopadhyay directed the commission and the board to preserve all documents relating to the controversial appointments and stop payment of salaries to these recruits as long as the hearing is on. “Everybody who comes before this court claim they are honest and clean,” justice Gangopadhyay said on that day, slamming both the departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-asks-cbi-to-probe-2016-school-recruitment-bengal-govt-may-challenge-order-101637605789694.html
22-11-2021||Noida||Jewar airport project ‘growth engine’ for Gautam Budh Nagar, says Yeida CEO||The upcoming Noida international airport in Jewar, which is said to be a key development project, has fuelled “big investments” and “growth” in Gautam Budh Nagar, said officials of the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the airport project in Jewar on November 25.According to the officials, demand for industrial land for setting up businesses and land rates in nearby villages, too, have increased ahead of the opening of the airport which is set to be in use by September 2024. “Due to the progress in the Noida International Airport project in Jewar, investors are interested in the area and the region has witnessed an investment of nearly ₹18,000 crore in the past three years, thereby creating at least 200,000 jobs once these businesses become operational. The project has become a growth engine in the region along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.Despite the Covid-19 outbreak last year, there was a total investment of nearly ₹8,000 crore in 2020-21 alone... Many investors bought industrial land here to set up business along the expressway around the airport area.The Uttar Pradesh government established Yeida in 2001, to generate employment and develop urban areas along the Yamuna Expressway, which connects Greater Noida with Agra. It has 268,862 hectares of land for developmental projects, and has already acquired 12,481 hectares of it for the same. It has also fast-tracked land acquisition in view of the airport project, and the work has started with an aim to complete it in three years.So far, Yeida has 58,397 hectares notified -- identified for planned development -- in 131 villages of Gautam Budh Nagar and 40 villages of Bulandshahr. 34,291 hectares notified in Aligarh, 88,968 hectares in Hathras, 75,751 hectares in Mathura, and 11,455 hectares in Agra. It has also earmarked 1,500 acres for developmental purposes near the airport’s passenger terminal, 1,000 acres each for Film City and a logistics hub, 400 acres for Medical Device Park, 350 acres for Apparel cluster, a dedicated area for a heritage city near Mathura, and a toy city among other big-ticket projects which will see progress in the near future.“Most of the big projects, including the airport project, have just started the work on ground. Along with the progress of the airport project, other industrial projects will also see growth, thereby creating jobs and attracting more investment in this region,” CEO Singh added.Yeida has reserved ₹4,000 to ₹6,700 per square metre (sqm) as the reserve price for industrial land, ₹16,000 per sqm for residential land, and ₹7,000 per sqm for intuitional land. It, however, may soon increase the allotment rates in future as the airport project has fuelled the growth in the region already, said the officials.Meanwhile, many said that the land rates in nearby areas have also increased.“Before the airport project got a green signal, the residential land in Abadi village was available for ₹5,000 per sqm. Now, the plot rates in the village have gone up and are between ₹15,000 and ₹20,000 per sqm... Many small investors are also buying plots in villages located near the airport site,” said Ved Prakash Tripathi, a real estate consultant from Noida’s Bluecrumbs company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-project-growth-engine-for-gautam-budh-nagar-says-yeida-ceo-101637605668435.html
22-11-2021||Noida||Traffic jam at Noida-Delhi Kalindi Kunj route after ban on entry of truck||Commuters were stuck at a traffic jam on the Noida-Delhi Kalindi Kunj route from 8am to 10am on Monday after several trucks were stopped from entering Delhi following a ban.According to officials of the Noida traffic police on Monday, the Delhi government has extended the ban on entry of trucks carrying non-essential services from November 21 to November 26 now.Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “On Sunday, the Delhi government extended the ban till November 26. Some truck drivers reached Kalindi Kunj on Monday morning as they were not aware about the extension of the ban. Police deployed there asked them to take a U-turn and return, which led to the traffic jam,” he said.He also said that the Kalindi Kunj Bridge is a six-lane carriageway from Noida-Delhi and narrows down to three lanes at the end, in Kalindi Kunj. “This normally leads to a bottleneck during peak hours. Since it was Monday, many people were on their way to the office in the morning, and the movement of trucks had slowed down the traffic movement. But the stretch was cleared after 10am,” Singh added.Commuters complain of ‘massive’ traffic jamAnup Tiwari, a commuter, said that there was a “massive traffic jam” on the Noida-Delhi carriageway at the Kalindi Kunj. “Trucks were stopped on the route, and this left only two lanes for other vehicles to navigate. Commuters were stranded on the route,” he tweeted.Brajesh Kumar, a resident of Antriksh Golf View in Noida Sector 78, said that he was travelling to Delhi via the DND Flyway on Monday morning, and got stuck there in a traffic jam for 20 minutes.The traffic police, however, said that the vehicular movement on the DND Flyway was relatively smooth.On November 17, the Noida traffic police banned the entry of heavy vehicles into Delhi. “In compliance with the instructions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR (national capital region), heavy vehicles -- except those carrying essential items -- shall be strictly prohibited from entering Delhi,” the Noida traffic police had said in a statement.Now, heavy vehicles travelling from Noida via Kalindi Kunj, DND Flyway and Chilla border are guided to reach their destinations via the Peripheral Expressway and other routes.The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Monday showed that the AQI in Noida and Greater Noida were recorded at 270 and 202, respectively, which falls in the ‘poor’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-jam-at-noida-delhi-kalindi-kunj-route-after-ban-on-entry-of-truck-101637605608647.html
22-11-2021||Noida||First time this month, air quality in Ghaziabad, Noida improves to ‘poor’||The air quality of Ghaziabad and Noida improved significantly on Monday, moving to the ‘poor’ category for the first time this month. Experts have attributed the improvement to the rise in wind speed. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Ghaziabad and Noida on Monday was recorded at 254 (against 319 on Sunday) and 270 (322), respectively. The last time the Ghaziabad city experienced ‘poor’ air was on October 30 when its AQI value was recorded at 297, while Noida last witnessed ‘poor’ air on October 31 with an AQI of 292. The AQI for Ghaziabad this month remained in ‘severe’ category for a period of 10 consecutive days from November 4 to 13 while Noida suffered six consecutive days of ‘severe’ air from November 4 to 9.On Monday, Greater Noida, which has witnessed ‘poor’ air quality on several occasions this month, recorded an AQI of 202 against 298 a day earlier, showed the CPCB data. According to the CPCB, the average of AQI in 22 days of November stood at 390.95, 350.72 and 381.22 for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, respectively.“The increase in wind speed and decrease in instances of stubble burning has improved the air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad. We are keeping control over local pollution factors. Since the wind speed has increased, the trapped pollutants in the region are dispersing fast,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the present favourable wind conditions are likely to persist till November 24. “The present wind speed is about 15kmph with gusting to 25kmph. These winds are likely to be there till November 24 and will weaken thereafter. Since Diwali, we did not have any significant wind. Normally, the winds pick up during the end of November or start of December,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), stubble burning instances have reduced considerably and their contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 is ranging below 10% since November 16. The share of stubble burning had spiked significantly to 48% on November 7 and gradually reduced thereafter.  Environmentalists said that only the meteorological conditions helped improve the air quality. “It is finally the wind speed which has helped dispersal of pollutants. It shows that enforcement and actions on ground level by different agencies failed to make impact. The pollution level is in ‘poor’ category which indicates that the air is still not better but the spell of high levels of AQI has certainly come down due to favourable wind speed,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The Safar forecast on Monday said that the north-westerly winds are likely to continue on Tuesday and likely to further improve the air quality. “Air quality is likely to improve to ‘poor’ or lower end of ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. From November 24 onwards, local as well as transport level winds are likely to slow down resulting in slight deterioration of air quality but expected to be within the lower end of ‘very poor’ category. The effective fire count is 909 and its % share in Delhi’s PM2.5 is low,” the forecast added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/first-time-this-month-air-quality-in-ghaziabad-noida-improves-to-poor-101637605548323.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Zika spread: Women and child development dept takes measures to keep shelter home inmates safe||The women and child development department is taking elaborate safety measures to keep shelter home inmates protected from the Zika virus under the recently launched initiative, said Vikas Singh, district probation officer in Lucknow. “We are planning thorough anti-fogging drives at shelter homes to keep the inmates safe from the infection,” said Singh. He said the drive would be carried out on the same pattern as it was conducted during Covid 19 outbreak. “The drive would be more or less similar. However, this time the focus will be more on anti-larvae spraying and keeping a check on places vulnerable to mosquito breeding,” said Singh. The city has around 31 homes that include shelter homes, observation homes and women shelter homes. Of the total, eight establishments are being run by the government and the rest are run by private bodies. However, the officials said that the drive would cover all the shelter homes on a precautionary basis. Last year around 57 minor girls, including five pregnant girls from a shelter home in Kanpur, were tested Covid-19 positive. However, this time when the Zika virus cases are on the rise, the department seems in no mood to take any chances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-spread-women-and-child-development-dept-takes-measures-to-keep-shelter-home-inmates-safe-101637605488249.html
22-11-2021||Pune||PMC okays re-starting of NBCL-accredited Mundhwa laboratory||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has finally given clearance for its laboratory in Mundhwa to run food and water tests on Monday. The laboratory has been laying idol for the last two years, with the PMC suffering a financial loss thereof. Civic activist Vivek Velankar has been raising the issue for the for last few months. The laboratory was started by the PMC in 2011 to test food and water samples for public and government authorities and was the first to get a National Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NBCL) accreditation in 2015. An inquiry under the Right to Information (RTI) found that the laboratory was run by a private agency for five years till 2018. A renewed proposal to rent out the laboratory to private players was approved by the standing committee in 2019, but has been awaiting the general body’s approval ever since. Earlier, the PMC was paying a private agency around ₹53 lakh per annum to run the laboratory. Till 2018, the PMC paid the agency ₹3.56 crore to run the laboratory. The corporation also spent around ₹60 lakh on chemicals, electricity bills and other expenses during this period. Now the agency which operates the lab will pay the PMC.Velankar, founder of the city-based Sajag Nagrik Manch, said, “The PMC started a laboratory and provided a facility to test food and water samples for the public and government authorities. It was run by a private player till 2018. Objecting to the wastage of public money, the PMC tabled a proposal in the standing committee to rent out the laboratory to private players so that it would get ₹30 lakh per annum in revenue. The proposal was sanctioned in July 2019 in the standing committee. But, it is pending approval of the general body and the PMC is losing out on revenue since 2019. It is a waste of taxpayers’ money that was used to set up a laboratory to provide facilities to common citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-okays-re-starting-of-nbcl-accredited-mundhwa-laboratory-101637605308328.html
22-11-2021||Pune||PMC auditoriums in a state of total neglect||PUNE The original audio system installed at the Anna Bhau Sathe auditorium has been replaced with duplicate equipment and CCTV cameras on the premises have been damaged, an inspection conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation ahead of reopening the auditorium has revealed. The matter was made public at the general body meeting held on Monday when Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporators Subhash Jagtap and Prashant Jagtap raised the issue. The electric department on October 26 wrote a letter to the cultural department stating: “Earlier sound systems were installed in the auditorium, but all that has been stolen. Instead of that the original sound system duplicate speakers have been placed.” NCP leader Jagtap said, “The auditorium is closed. To be able to do this, the person must be an expert and it would require time to replace the equipment. This has happened hand –in-hand with the administration.” Jagtap added, “I represent the Wanowrie area. The Mahatma Phule auditorium also has been misused during the lockdown. While cleaning the auditorium, 500 empty alchohol bottles were found.” Also, during the lockdown, at least 200 chairs at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch have been damaged. It was also revealed that the Mahatma Phule auditorium in Wanowrie has allegedly become a den for alcohol consumption. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar promised the general body meeting that the administration will file a police case in these matters. Elected members raised the question about security guards posted round the clock at all these places and that there should be a record of persons entering the auditorium even when it is closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-auditoriums-in-a-state-of-total-neglect-101637605068767.html
22-11-2021||Noida||40-year-old arrested for stealing 9 iron frames of sign boards from Noida park||Police arrested a 40-year-old man on Monday for allegedly stealing nine iron frames of sign boards from a local park in Noida Sector 56, said officials.The suspect was identified as Shamshad (goes by first name), a resident of Khora Colony in Ghaziabad.Based on a complaint by 40-year-old Chandrapal Singh, who works as a contractor with the Noida authority, a case was registered against Shamshad under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 380 (theft) at the Sector 58 police station on Sunday. Singh alleged that “someone had stolen iron frames of different sign boards” from the park, said Vinod Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 58 police station.“We launched an investigation and identified the suspect -- Shamshad -- after scanning CCTV footage from nearby areas. Police received a tip about the suspect’s movement near an electricity sub-station in Sector 55 on Monday, and a team of officials reached the spot and arrested him,” Kumar added.Police have recovered the nine stolen sign boards and three iron pipes from the possession of Shamshad. The suspect revealed during interrogation that he used to steal the sign boards and sell those to scrap dealers for money.Shamshad was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/40yearold-arrested-for-stealing-9-iron-frames-of-sign-boards-from-noida-park-101637604950863.html
22-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Leopard is still on the loose, search operation on||The leopard, which was caught on the CCTV camera of a house in the Raj Nagar locality on November 17 and later believed to have injured two persons in Adhyatmik Nagar on November 20, is still on the loose and could not be sighted further as teams of the forest department are continuing their search. Forest officials said that they received information about sighting of the big cat near the Upper Ganga Canal on Sunday, but it could not be confirmed due to absence of pug marks. “Our teams are still searching for the leopard and the information related to canal did not materialise as pug marks of the animal could not be found so far. There was also information about presence of a leopard in Sector 23, Raj Nagar, and it was captured on a CCTV camera early Sunday morning. But the animal was probably a fishing cat as it was smaller in size. As regards to the leopard which attacked two persons in Adhyatmik, Nagar, it was a confirmed sighting and a search is on,” said Ashok Gupta, forest ranger from the divisional forest department. The officials said it is likely that the leopard sighted on November 17 in Raj Nagar and the one which attacked two persons at Adhyatmik Nagar was the same animal. “The pug marks at Raj Nagar were not found as the animal was spotted on road and cemented surfaces. But it is likely that it is the same leopard which was sighted at Adhyatmik Nagar on November 20 and probably moved on further. Our teams will continue their search,” Gupta added. The teams from Agra, Ghaziabad and Meerut, along with experts from Wildlife SOS, are searching for the leopard. “The leopard is still to be traced. As regards the information of its sighting near the canal, the pug marks of hyena, nilgai, dogs and even wild boars were found from the spot, but no pug marks of a leopard were found. It is likely that the animal moved along the railway tracks towards the canal which has dense forestry,” said an officer from Wildlife SOS. “It is an adult but whether it is a male or female is yet to be confirmed,” the officer added. In November last year when a leopard was sighted at official residence of vice chairperson of the Ghaziabad development authority, the teams of forest department conducted similar searches for over a week but the animal could not be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-leopard-is-still-on-the-loose-search-operation-on-101637604949572.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP will win 300 seats in Uttar Pradesh: Maurya||Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would win more than 300 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) elections. Maurya said this while talking to media persons after announcing various projects of Public Works Department (PWD) at Gullabir Mandir, Bahraich on Monday. “Even if all the parties like Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party and the Congress come together, they would not be able to stop the BJP from winning more than 300 seats,” he said.He attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and said he should change his party’s name as Jinnahwadi party. “Akhilesh had said that Jinnah contributed for country’s independence despite the fact that Jinnah was responsible for the partition because of which lakhs of Hindus were killed,” Maurya said. He said withdrawing the three farm laws was a policy decision of the government that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 
22-11-2021||Other||UP STF nabs 3 members of solver gang from Agra||LUCKNOW: With the arrest of three persons from Agra, the UP STF on Monday claimed to have busted a solver gang involved in arranging dummy candidates for the online examination conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment and Promotion Board, said UP STF in a press statement. The arrested persons were identified as Banti Kumar, an agent (resident of Aligarh), Harendra Singh, the applicant (resident of Bulandhshahr) and Avinash Kumar, the solver (resident of Munger in Bihar), it said. A case had been registered regarding this in Khandauli police station in Agra, it added. Photo copies of two admit cards, two Aadhaar cards, attendance sheet and ₹600 in cash were recovered from the arrested persons, said the press statement. The UP STF had information that a solver would take the exam in place of the original candidate at an exam centre in RBS Institute, Agra on Monday. Acting on the tip-off, the STF team nabbed the three persons. One of them was Avinash Kumar, taking the exam in place of original candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-stf-nabs-3-members-of-solver-gang-from-agra-101637604828424.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Youth held in Pune under POCSO Act||The Dattawadi Police have arrested a 21-year-old youth for sexually assaulting a minor boy. According to the police, the accused dragged the victim before committing the crime.Krushna Indalkar, police station Incharge, said, the victim was speaking to his friend when the accused came to the spot and dragged him to the nearby public toilet and allegedly committed the crime.”The victim was even beaten up by the accused and the victim’s grandmother alerted the parents and a first information report (FIR) was lodged under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO), he said.Currently, the accused has been remanded into police custody and an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/youth-held-in-pune-under-pocso-act-101637604530991.html
22-11-2021||Other||A day after arrest in Tripura, TMC leader Saayoni Ghosh released on bail||Actor-turned Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Saayoni Ghosh has been granted bail from a local court of Tripura, a day after her arrest over attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between two groups, officials said.Ghosh’s arrest came after she reportedly disrupted chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s civic poll rally in Agartala on Saturday night by shouting ‘ Khela Hobe’ (Game On) and pelting stones at the rally.‘Khela Hobe’ is a poll slogan of Trinamool Congress during Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year.East Agartala Women police lodged a case against Ghosh under Sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).“The court didn’t find any ingredients of Sections 307 and 153A charged against Sayani Ghosh. Moreover, contradictions have been noticed in the FIR copy and the court forwarding copy. The court granted her bail on a bail bond of Rs. 20,000,” said counsel Shankar Lodh who moved for bail petition of Ghosh at the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate’s court in Agartala.Following Sayani’s arrest on Sunday, the TMC alleged that they were attacked in the premises of East Agartala Women Police Station reportedly by the BJP cadres.The BJP denied the allegation of involvement of their activists and later claimed that Trinamool Congress, CPM and Congress are in a ‘shadow alliance’ with a motto to malign Tripura.After arriving at Agartala today, Abhishek Banerjee told the reporters that they moved to the Supreme Court accusing the Tripura government of contempt of court and challenged that he would defeat Biplab Deb in the apex court. He further said that he would drag Deb to the apex court saying that his government is autocratic.Regarding Sayani Ghosh’s arrest, Banerjee said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi in West Bengal said ‘Khela Hobe’ and addressed chief minister Mamata Banerjee in an ugly way.“If Prime Minister said this, was it not criminal intimidation? But there is a basic difference between us and them and we will not follow their footsteps in this case,” he said.He alleged that his party activists were attacked in the East Agartala Women Police Station premises with the instigation of Biplab Kumar Deb.He also reacted to the BJP’s allegation of ‘shadow alliance’ of TMC with CPM and Congress, Banerjee said, “The BJP was rattled with our entry into Tripura. They are scared to death. Why didn’t they raise this allegation four months ago?”Reacting to that, Tripura Information and Cultural Affairs Minister Sushanta Chowdhury said, “They (TMC) always threaten to go to Supreme Court. And we will speak on November 28 (after vote counting of civic polls). Then, they should not say that free and fair poll was not held and they should not hide their face. I know, they will allege of unfair poll on that day too.”Naming the TMC as ‘bargi’ (dacoits), Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment said, “They (TMC) came here from outside to create disturbances and deteriorate law and order situation. Our culture is that of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyaya, Rishi Aurobindo, Swami Vivekananda. Whatever we see in Bengal, is not our Bengali culture, it’s the culture of bargis. Actually, they came here to hide their failures as they lost their faces throughout the country since the Bengal Assembly polls this year. “Both the BJP and TMC appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise in the civic polls scheduled to be held on November 25.On the other hand, Tripura police lodged a case against Bengal minister Firhad Hakim for his statements where he reportedly threatened to kill five BJP supporters in Bengal for every TMC activist hurt in Tripura.Meanwhile, in order of a writ petition filed with the High Court of Tripura, a division bench of Justice SG Chattopadhyay and Subhashish Talapatra today directed Director General of Tripura Police VS Yadav and West Tripura superintendent of police to provide 24x7 security cover to CPI municipal poll candidate at ward no. 03 Rakesh Das till counting for the polls is over.Das alleged in his petition that he was assaulted by a group of goons, whom he claimed were BJP supporters, while he was campaigning on November 19. Das claimed he informed the issue to the police and sought security cover but wasn’t granted the same.In the order, the High Court said it would refrain from passing an order about free and fair conduction of the polls since the Supreme Court is in the session of the matter, but said the petitioner should be provided security personnel forthwith 24x7 till counting is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-arrest-in-tripura-tmc-leader-saayoni-ghosh-released-on-bail-101637604529842.html
22-11-2021||Other||Cable price capped at ₹100 a month: Channi in Ludhiana||Ludhiana In what is being seen as yet another sop to people before next year’s elections, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced that the charges for a cable TV connection had been fixed at ₹100 a month. Earlier in the day, Channi, along with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, handed over appointment letters to the kin of five farmers, who died during the farmer agitation. The event was held at Punjab Agricultural University. “From now onwards, you do not have to pay beyond ₹100 per connection and strict action would be taken to implement the capping of the cable price,” said Channi, addressing a political rally at the Grain Market on Gill Road, adding that the decision was meant to end ‘cable mafia’ in the state. He added that transport and cable in the state were owned and controlled by the Badal family of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). “Illegal bus permits would be revoked and allotted to unemployed youth. Over the next days, we will also regularise the services of all safai sewaks working with municipal councils and corporations,” he claimed.CM woos auto-rickshaw driversWooing auto-rickshaw drivers, the CM held meetings with respective associations, and assured them that the fine on challans of auto rickshaw operators will be waived. Channi stated that the historic decisions have already been taken for welfare of poor, including reduction in electricity rates; waiving electricity bill arrears worth ₹1,500 crore; water bills fixed at ₹50 per month, fixed rates of sand and gravel per cusec feet at ₹5.5 besides providing free power to rural water supply schemes.Sidhu praises landmark decisions, but wants sand rate cappedFrom a stage that had major senior Congress leaders putting up a united front, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had both praise and criticism for the Channi government. Opening with sand prices, he said, A tractor trolley of the sand is being illegally sold for around ₹3,400 today. I will continue my battle against the sand mafia, till the rate comes down to ₹1,000.” He added that the Congress party high command must ensure that the policy on sand rates was implemented, or he would resign. He alleged that 60% of industry in the state had been shut and there was an urgent need to adopt a cluster-based approach. In his praise of the new CM’s functioning, Sidhu said landmark decision had been taken in a short span of time. “The Punjab government will soon evolve a mechanism to ensure the state was debt-free,” he said, claiming that the AAP government in Delhi was only reaping benefits of policies that the previous Congress CM Sheila Dixit had out in place. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu also praised Sidhu, saying that former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had an alliance with the BJP. On the occasion, some Akali workers also joined the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cable-price-capped-at-rs-100-a-month-channi-in-ludhiana-101637604408415.html
22-11-2021||Other||Mission Shakti: Women cops reuniting estranged couples to be honoured: IG, Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The women cops, who have helped reunite estranged couples through effective counselling and distinguished themselves with other good works among people, would soon be honoured, said Rakesh Singh, IG, Prayagraj Range, who chaired a meeting of women cops working at women help desks and reviewed their works recently. Under the Mission Shakti, women help desks have been established at police stations for effective and early disposal of the complaints of women, which mostly include extra marital affairs of their spouses, harassment for dowry, spending more time on mobile and social media platforms, suspicion of having illicit relations of husbands etc. “Women cops at help desks are disposing of complaints related to women early and effectively. They are doing good counselling to solve their problems which is now showing desired results. Even women complainants feel free to narrate their woes to women cops and get quick solutions,” said Singh. “It came to fore that many women cops sorted out differences between estranged couples and saved their relations. They counselled them effectively and helped them sort out their differences. Nine such women cops went extra mile to help people while delivering their duties,” the IG said. Moreover, many women cops have also done distinguished works like providing food to aged and homeless persons or reuniting lost elderly and children with their kin, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mission-shakti-women-cops-reuniting-estranged-couples-to-be-honoured-ig-prayagraj-101637604348577.html
22-11-2021||Other||UP pharmacists plan stir in state from Dec 4||letters@hindustantimes.comLUCKNOWPharmacists in the state will launch a statewide stir from December 4 to protest against the delay in response from the state government over their various demands, including wage revision and the right to prescribe certain medicines.Addressing a press conference on Monday, Sunila Yadav, executive president, Diploma Pharmacists Association, said, “On December 4, we shall hold demonstrations at the offices of the chief medical officers in all the districts of the state. This will be followed by black badges till December 9 and a two-hour work boycott till December 16.”Yadav said that between December 17 and 19 there will be a work boycott except for emergency services. “From December 20 we will observe a total work boycott and all services will be affected,” she said.Despite the fact that pharmacists were fully involved in management of Covid-19 patients and two-dozen of them lost their lives during the pandemic, they are not getting their due in terms of wages and honour at the workplace, said Sandip Badola, president of the association.Pharmacists are demanding wage revision, change of designation from pharmacist to pharmacy officer and creation of additional posts. “There are few pharmacists at community health centres and other medical health establishments in the state, hence, we demand for creating more posts of pharmacists,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-pharmacists-plan-stir-in-state-from-dec-4-101637603808416.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Two held in separate cases of vehicle theft in Pune||Akhbar Hussain Shaikh (27), from Velhe, has been arrested on a charge of stealing motorcycles from different parts of Pune since lockdown restrictions came into effect in March 2020.The police have recovered four motorcycles from his possession and said that the accused had lost his job during the lockdown and began stealing two-wheelers.A police patrol team under the guidance of senior police inspector Sunil Zavare apprehended and later arrested Shaikh on Friday near Bibwewadi bus depot around 6 pm.During sustained interrogation, the accused spilt the beans and revealed that he had stolen four bikes from Koregaonkar Park, Bibwewadi and Sahakarnagar police station areas. He told the police about the locations of the stolen two-wheelers to the police after which the detection branch sleuths recovered the stolen bikes worth ₹1.05 lakh from his possession.Investigation officer Zavare stated, “Shaikh who is a casual labourer lost his job stole the bikes to raise money for the treatment of his wife who is pregnant. He scouted the places in advance and struck at public places for stealing the motorcycles,” he said.In another case, the Bund Garden police have arrested site worker Akhtar Chand Mujawar (44), of Banwadi in Satara district for stealing 13 motorcycles from Sassoon General Hospital premises.Bund Garden senior inspector Yashwant Gawari, inspector Ashwini Satpute and their team arrested Mujawar from his native place on Saturday evening.The investigators studied the CCTV footage of the various establishments near the Sassoon general hospital and found that Mujavar was stealing motorcycles.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Sagar Patil said, “ Mujavar started stealing bikes from August 21 this year when he came visiting a relative in the hospital. At that time, he saw that there was nobody to keep a watch on the two-wheelers and stole the bikes.”According to the police, as many as 17 motorcycles have been reported stolen from the area of Sassoon general hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-in-separate-cases-of-vehicle-theft-in-pune-101637603209264.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Rooftop solar projects: UPNEDA to hire agencies to install panels for residential consumers||The Uttar Pradesh New & Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA) will hire vendors to install solar panels on residential consumers’ roofs as part of a central government scheme that seeks to encourage people to generate solar power for their requirement and sell the surplus to discoms.The NEDA on Monday invited e-bids from eligible bidders in this regard with a view to selecting vendors to carry out work ranging from installation and maintenance of solar panels.“The NEDA has invited e-bids from eligible bidders to participate in request for proposal (RFP) for empanelment of vendors for site survey, design, installation, supply, erection, testing and commissioning including warranty and 5 years of comprehensive operation and maintenance of rooftop solar PV power system for residential consumers,” said a NEDA official.The bidders have been asked to submit their bids by December 13 with the techno-commercial bids scheduled for opening on December 14.The Union ministry of new and renewable energy, is implementing Phase II of Grid Connected Rooftop Solar (GCRTS) Programme wherein central financial assistance (CFA) is being provided for installation of rooftop solar (RTS) projects in residential buildings. To implement the RTS activities in respect of the programme, respective power distribution companies have been designated as the implementing agency. “The UPPCL has decided that Uttar Pradesh New & Renewable Development Agency (UPNEDA) shall be the common tendering agency for all discoms of Uttar Pradesh and will identify L-1 rates (lowest rates) and empanel vendors for implementation of the programme,” the official said. The respective discoms would execute RTS projects in their operational areas through the empanelled vendors, in accordance with the rates discovered in this tender, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rooftop-solar-projects-upneda-to-hire-agencies-to-install-panels-for-residential-consumers-101637603208115.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP sensing defeat in 2022 UP polls: Cong||Uttar Pradesh Congress on Monday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was getting signals of defeat and so its top leaders were camping in Lucknow ahead of 2022 assembly polls in the state.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, in a press statement, said the BJP was feeling jittery due to aggressive campaign that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had launched in the state. He said this was the main reason why the top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, were camping in the state.Lallu said these BJP leaders were not seen in the state when the people were allegedly dying to shortage of oxygen amid fight against Covid-19. He claimed that about 700 farmers had lost their lives in the agitation against three farm laws. He alleged that the state government was spending large amount of money, earned from taxes, on advertisements to make “false” claims of development. He said the law and order was at the lowest ebb in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sensing-defeat-in-2022-up-polls-cong-101637603148074.html
22-11-2021||Other||Encouraged by farm laws repeal, Assam groups plan to resume anti-CAA stir||The Centre’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws following a year-long agitation by farmer groups have led groups opposed to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to revive their stir seeking its withdrawal. Organisations that led the anti-CAA stir in Assam in 2019, such as the All Assam Students Union and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (which later formed a political party called Raijor Dal), are again raking up the demand to repeal the CAA. “The Centre was forced to repeal the anti-farmer farm laws bowing down to the demand of the agitation by farming communities. This proved the government’s injustice and misjudgement. Now it’s time to repeal CAA, which is against the interest of indigenous people of Assam and northeast, soon,” tweeted AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya after the Centre’s move on Saturday. On Sunday, former KMSS leader and present president of Raijor Dal, Akhil Gogoi also reiterated that there is a need to revive the anti-CAA stir in Assam following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three farm laws. “The anti-CAA stir should resume. The legislation is yet to be implemented by the Centre, but we need to remember if it does, it would pave the way for 19 million Hindus from Bangladesh to enter Assam,” Gogoi said after a meeting with Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday. “While I was behind bars, some Assamese groups leading the anti-CAA stir weakened it by taking it in a wrong direction. Now that our farmers have been able to repeal the three farm laws after their agitation, it is time for all Assamese to unite and start the anti-CAA movement so that this anti-Assamese legislation is withdrawn,” he added. Gogoi, one of the prominent leaders of the anti-CAA stir in 2019, was lodged in jail for one-and-half years for his role in the agitation and two cases were lodged by National Investigation Agency against him. He became an MLA from the Sibsagar seat while he was in jail. In July this year, he was acquitted in both cases and got released from jail. The ruling BJP in Assam, which came back to power again this year, has always been very clear about its support of the legislation. It has been maintaining that the anti-CAA stir lost relevance after the Covid-19 pandemic and the party’s win in assembly polls in May this year proved that the masses were unperturbed by it. “It has now become clear to all people in Assam that the agitation against CAA was a drama. Many of those who were part of that agitation later joined BJP. People of the state are more concerned about development and not about old issues like CAA,” said former BJP MLA and president of the party’s women unit in Assam, Angoorlata Deka, on Sunday. Assam had witnessed violent protests in December 2019 against the controversial legislation that seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Muslim-majority Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. Five people died due to police firing in the protests and opposition to the legislation led to the birth of two regional parties, Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal. While AJP failed to open its account in the assembly poll, Raijor Dal bagged just one seat. While protests in other parts of India against CAA were about the exclusion of Muslims from its purview, in Assam, the opposition was against allowing non-Muslim illegal immigrants to become citizens. The provision of CAA was against the Assam Accord of 1985 that assured an end to the entry of illegal immigrants irrespective of their religious affiliations. Several groups and indigenous associations felt if CAA is implemented, it could lead to an influx of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh and threaten the language, culture and land holdings of local populations. Following the deaths and violence, AASU decided to tone down the protests and finally discontinue it due to Class 10 and Class 12 board exams last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/encouraged-by-farm-laws-repeal-assam-groups-plan-to-resume-anti-caa-stir-101637602909608.html
22-11-2021||Other||UP Board 2021 Class 10, 12 results: Around 28K unhappy students apply to appear in 2022 exams||Unhappy with their marks, around 28,000 students of Class 10 and Class 12 have applied to reappear in UP Board exams of 2022, after the Board decided to give another chance to students of academic session 2020-21 to reappear in the exams. The Board had given one more chance to these dissatisfied students and fixed the last date for online registration of classes 9 and 11 and online filling of 10 and 12 examination forms till November 20.Till November 8, 51,27,743 students had applied for Class 10th-12th exams and 58,40,608 for registration for class 9 and 11. After the extended last date (November 20), about 58.53 lakh students have filled the form for Class 9 and Class 11 and 51.55 lakh for Class 10 and 12 exams, informed UP Board officials. It is clear that about 13,000 applications have increased in Class 9 and Class 11 and about 28,000 for appearing in the Class 10-12 exams of 2022, they added.This also means that 3,132 students of high school and 7,690 students of intermediate, who failed in the marks correction examination held from September 18 to October 6, have again filled the form for the 2022 examination. Even then, 17,000 such students have applied for class 10th-12th exams of 2022, who were dissatisfied with the results declared on July 31 but could not apply for the marks improvement examination, said a senior UP Board official.Last week, taking a big decision in the interest of students, the state government had given one more chance to the students, who were promoted in high school and intermediate without examination in 2021 during the Covid pandemic, to appear in the board examination of 2022 free of cost, if they were unhappy with their result. The certificate-cum-marksheet issued to such students appearing in the examination of 2022, will bear the ‘year of exam’ as 2021.Many students of high school and intermediate have already availed of their chance to improve their marks by sitting for examinations held from September 18 to October 6, 2021. All the promoted students, except those who have passed the marks improvement examination-2021, were allowed to appear in class 10 and class 12 examination of 2022 free of cost.In the board exam results of 2021, as many as 1,44,744 students, including 82,238 students of high school and 62,506 students of intermediate do not have marks on their marksheets but were promoted.These students have been running to their schools as well approaching district inspectors of schools (DIOSs), regional offices of the UP Board and also UP Board headquarters demanding a solution. This latest decision will come as a major relief to them.Earlier, the last date for advance registration of class 9 and class 11, as well as for filling up the forms for Class 10 and Class 12 examinations-2022 was November 8, following two extensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-2021-class-10-12-results-around-28k-unhappy-students-apply-to-appear-in-2022-exams-101637602607922.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Thai delegation explores trade opportunities in UP||LUCKNOW A delegation from the Thailand Embassy on Monday met senior members of the PHD Chamber of Commerce to explore trade opportunities between Uttar Pradesh and Thailand. Saithong Soiphet, minister counsellor (commercial), Narathip Raksakit, counsellor (commercial) and Bobby J Gupta, trade officer from the office of commercial affairs from the Royal Embassy of Thailand, met senior members of the PHD Chamber, UP chapter. They spoke about trade opportunities with UP in various sectors, including tourism and hospitality, horticulture and food processing, IT, agriculture and pharmaceuticals. Thai Embassy officials also pointed out that the private sector in Thailand was ready to invest in Uttar Pradesh. They also invited companies from UP to invest in Thailand. Thai officials showed keen interest in the food processing sector of Uttar Pradesh and also welcomed suggestions from the PHD chamber for investment in this sector. “A delegation from the Thai Embassy met senior members of the PHD chamber today to explore business opportunities in UP. The meeting was fruitful. They expressed willingness to invest in various sectors in UP,” said Mukesh Singh, senior member, PHD chamber, UP chapter. Mukesh Singh apprised the Thai delegates about various investor-friendly policies of the UP government, including the single-window clearance policy of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/thai-delegation-explores-trade-opportunities-in-up-101637602308273.html
22-11-2021||Noida||At 25, Noida has highest active Covid-19 cases in UP||At 25, Gautam Budh Nagar had the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, according to the state government data. The district reported no new cases and five recoveries on Monday, bringing down the active cases from 30 on Sunday to 25 on Monday. In this month alone, a total of 40 new cases have been reported so far. Since November 1 this year, Gautam Budh Nagar has been at the top spot among all districts of the state in terms of active Covid-19 cases. As of Monday, the state had 104 active cases of Covid-19, the data showed.However, officials from the district health department said that while the district may have maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state at the moment, there is no increasing trend of cases being seen.“These are just sporadic cases in the district. We are reporting less than 10 new cases on average in a day. But on some days, the number is as low as zero. It would only be alarming in case we start reporting new Covid-19 cases in double digits. However, as of now, the situation is under control,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The officials also said that there was nothing to worry about as all the patients are in home isolation.In October, Gautam Budh Nagar had reported 41 new cases. Till November 22, the district has reported 63,384 Covid-19 cases, of which 62,917 have recovered. On October 13, the district reported a death due to Covid when a 67-year-old patient succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 467. This was the first death reported in the district in the past four months, the officials said.Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar reported two new cases of dengue fever in the past 24 hours. “The cumulative tally of dengue cases in the district is 617, of which 11 patients are currently under treatment. The number of new cases as well as active cases is gradually declining,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-25-noida-has-highest-active-covid-19-cases-in-up-101637601707923.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Don’t make “provocative” statements on farm laws: Maya to BJP leaders||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has alleged that some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are vitiating atmosphere with their “provocative” statements on the issue of farm laws despite the PM’s announcement that these three laws would be repealed. She also said it was necessary to what she termed rein in the rhetoric of the BJP leaders to instil confidence among the farmers.In a tweet on Monday, Mayawati also said: “By repealing the three agriculture laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi fulfilled the demand of the farmers who have been agitating for almost a year. Some other legitimate demands of the farmers also need a timely solution so that they can return to their respective home after being satisfied and fully engage in their work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-make-provocative-statements-on-farm-laws-maya-to-bjp-leaders-101637601647895.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Ganga E-way project: Bidder likely to be finalised this week||Three companies are in the competition for the Ganga Expressway project of the state government for which tender process is likely to be finalised on Tuesday or by the end of this week. Among the three companies is the Adani Group, which is also executing the Chaudhari Charan Singh International airport expansion project in Lucknow. “Three companies are in the fray to bag the ₹36,230 crore project. The tender process is almost over and name of the successful bidder will be finalised on Tuesday or by the end of this week,” said a government official. The Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) is the state government body that will execute the Ganga Expressway project like other e-way projects in the state. Awanish Kumar Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, has apprised officials that 94 percent land for the project has been acquired. The Ganga expressway will start from NH 334 in Meerut and will end in Prayagraj bypass at NH -2. The expressway will be of six lanes and expandable up to eight lanes. It will pass through 12 districts, including Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. This expressway will cover 140 water bodies. It will have seven road over bridges, 17 interchange roads, 14 big bridges, 126 minor bridges, 28 flyovers, 50 vehicle underpass, 171 light vehicle underpass, 160 small vehicles underpass and 946 culverts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-e-way-project-bidder-likely-to-be-finalised-this-week-101637601047734.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Man kills nephew, injures another over property dispute in Prayagraj||A 34-year-old man died and his younger brother suffered injuries when their uncle allegedly opened fire on them after a scuffle over a land dispute in Semri village under Karchhana police in trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj district on Monday morning, police said.The deceased has been identified as Deepak aka Vishnu Shukla and his brother as Vaibhav Shukla, 30. Superintendent of police (SP), crime, Satish Chandra said raids were carried out after the murder and the accused aka Neelkamal Shukla was arrested with the firearm used in the crime. An FIR was lodged against the accused on the complaint of the father of the deceased. A heavy force had been deployed in the area to avoid any untoward incident, he added.Reports said one Dinesh Shukla and his younger brother Neelkamal Shukla aka Neelu were locked in a dispute over a passage. At around 6am on Monday, the two families confronted each other after one of the children of Dinesh’s family relieved himself at the disputed spot.Soon members of both the families clashed after a heated argument. In a fit of rage, Neelu took out his licensed single barrel gun and opened fire in which Dinesh Shukla’s sons Deepak and Vaibhav suffered bullet injuries. A police heavy force rushed to the scene on receiving the information and got the injured brothers admitted to SRN hospital where Deepak died during the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-kills-nephew-injures-another-over-property-dispute-in-prayagraj-101637600447740.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC to table ₹15 crore tender for maintaining penguin pen at Byculla Zoo||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is all set to table a proposal worth ₹15.26 crore for the maintenance and upkeep of the penguin pen in the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan (Byculla Zoo) during the upcoming civic standing committee meeting on Wednesday.Earlier, the BMC had appointed a private agency back in 2018 for the maintenance and upkeep of the enclosure for three years. The cost of this tender was around ₹11.6 crore, which ended on September 30, 2021. Before the expiration of the tender, the civic administration had appointed a new agency for a fresh tender, following which the Congress slammed them for spending a huge amount just for the upkeep of the penguin enclosure.However, civic officials say that the cost mentioned in the new tender will cover all the necessary expenses of the penguins like veterinary charges, fodder expenses and life support system, along with the maintenance and upkeep of the enclosure. “In case a new penguin is born then also we won’t have to pay anything extra as the entire cost will be covered as per the tender amount,” informed the official.BMC had extended the earlier contract and shortlisted M/S Highway Construction for the fresh contract. According to a senior civic official, the BMC had opened the tender three times before shortlisting them.“The price quoted by this contractor is the lowest and they meet all the criteria specified in the tender,” said an official. Meanwhile, Congress said that it will question in the committee meeting as to why the BMC is depending upon private contractors when it has its experienced support staff. Congress corporator Asif Zakaria questioned, “Why is the contract being given to a construction company? If they can upkeep the maintenance of this pen, then BMC can also do it easily as they have so many experienced staffers and vets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-table-15-crore-tender-for-maintaining-penguin-pen-at-byculla-zoo-101637599967748.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis misguided state by saying IFSC will be set up here: Congress||The Maharashtra Congress alleged that the decision of moving the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) to Gujarat’s GIFT City from Mumbai’s Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) has cost dear to Maharashtra as it resulted in the diversion of foreign direct investment (FDI) worth ₹1.63 lakh crore to Gujarat in 2020-21. The Congress has alleged that opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, during his stint as the Maharashtra chief minister, had lied to the state that there was a separate IFSC planned for Maharashtra.BJP has rubbished the allegations and stated that the decision to relocate IFSC was taken during the second tenure of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) in the Centre. Quoting the recent FDI figures released by the Union finance ministry, Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said, “Of the ₹1.94 lakh crore that came from the US and Singapore in the form of FDI in computer software and hardware to India, ₹1,62,830 crore went to Gujarat in 2020-21. Gujarat received 78% of the total FDI received in this sector in 2020-21. This was IFSC-specific FDI. Gujarat, which used to be on the sixth position in FDI, jumped to the top position in the financial year only because IFSC was taken away to that state.”Sawant has alleged that this is a “conspiracy” by the Modi government to diminish Mumbai’s status as the country’s financial capital. “The shifting of IFSC to Gujarat was with the sole intention of making it a global financial hub. It will be at the cost of Maharashtra. In the future, too, Gujarat will continue to get a higher share of FDI because IFSC has been shifted there,” he said.According to the Congress leader, the UPA government had decided to set up IFSC in Mumbai in 2007. The Modi government took it away to Gujarat but the Fadnavis regime did not oppose it. “Fadnavis kept misguiding Maharashtra by stating that a task force was appointed by the Modi government under [former minister] Jayant Sinha to allot a separate IFSC for Mumbai. But it turned out to be hogwash. BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) is responsible for Maharashtra’s loss,” he said.Countering Sawant’s claims, BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said: “It has been proven earlier as well that it was the decision [to shift IFSC to Gujarat] of the Manmohan Singh government. The Congress is unnecessarily raking up the issue again. Instead of talking about the FDI meant for IFSC, the ruling parties in Maharashtra should first reply why the existing industries are going to other states. There are many automobile companies which are shifting their facilities from the state or setting up new units in other states. It is mainly because of the extortion spree by the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party in Pune and other parts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-misguided-state-by-saying-ifsc-will-be-set-up-here-congress-101637599848420.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Organs of 25-year-old brain dead donor save lives of three in Pune||Sahyadri Hospital Deccan Gymkhana received organ donation by a family of a 25-year-old from Jalna which gave new lease of life to three people in the city.The patient was declared brain dead on November 21 at Sahyadri Hospital Deccan Gymkhana following a road accident. After his family consented to donate his organs, his liver was transplanted on a 70-year-old male, while one of his kidneys was transplanted on a 51-year-old female. Both liver and kidney transplants were done at the same hospital while the other kidney was sent to another private hospital in Pune.The deceased was working in a private company in Pune while his parents are farm labourers.Dr Bipin Vibhute, director and head of organ transplantation and hepatobiliary surgery, informed that the liver transplant was conducted on a 70-year-old male patient suffering from end-stage liver disease while the kidney was transplanted on a 51-year-old female suffering from kidney failure.The treating team consisted of liver transplant surgeons Dr Bipin Vibhute, Dr Apurv Deshpande, Dr Aniruddha Bhosale, Dr Abhijit Mane, liver transplant physician and hepatologists Dr Sheetal Mahajani, transplant anaesthetist Dr Manish Pathak and Dr Manoj Raut amongst others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/organs-of-25-year-old-brain-dead-donor-save-lives-of-three-in-pune-101637598887752.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Jharkhand Assembly Foundation Day: People are watching, Guv reminds MLAs of conduct, responsibility||Elected representatives need to be mindful of their conduct during assembly sessions as they are under scanner of the electorate which asesses and makes opinion about the performance of respective legislators, Governor Ramesh Bais said on Monday on the occasion of 21st Foundation Day of Jharkhand Assembly. Addressing the annual event at the new assembly building, which was also attended by chief minister Hemant Soren, Speaker Rabindranath Mahto, ministers and legislators, Bais said live telecast of assembly proceedings has put legislators under close scrutiny. “People form opinion about their representatives based on what they see through the live proceedings. Therefore, you need to be mindful of your conduct and behaviour in the House. People choose their representatives with utmost hopes and legislators are responsible for taking up their problems and find solutions,” said Bais. The governor underlined that while the auspicious day was a reason to celebrate, it also provides opportunity to introspect about the limitations and areas where course correction is required. Highlighting the disruption of assembly proceedings by members to make their point, the governor said while it’s important to raise issues many a times it is not done under the proceedings regulations. “It seems they are carried away with what’s going to be published in Press the next day and the fact they want to be seen by public as proceedings are telecast live. Such acts also become Page 1 news the next day,” he added.On the occasion, the governor felicitated BJP legislator Ramchandra Chandravanshi for being nominated for the Birsa Munda Excellent Legislator for the year. Vidhan Sabha state members, national award winners, players of repute and three best performing districts were also felicitated on the occasion by CM and. Speaker. Speaking on the occasion, Speaker Rabindranath Mahto recalled the long struggle for separate state of Jharkhand. “This is the place where the policy decisions are taken amid bitter sweet discussions. Both treasury and opposition benches play their role in its functioning and decisions taken,” he added. Addressing the event, the chief minister recounted the different welfare schemes and policy decisions taken by his government in past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jharkhand-assembly-foundation-day-people-are-watching-guv-reminds-mlas-of-conduct-responsibility-101637597807427.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Noida International Airport: Uttar Pradesh government preps for groundbreaking ceremony||The Uttar Pradesh government’s preparations are in full swing for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Noida International Airport at Jewar in Gautam Budh Nagar district on Thursday (November 25). Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the new airport on the occasion.With this, Uttar Pradesh is on way to having five international airports, the highest for any state in the country, said a state government spokesperson.“The state had only two international airports till 2017 — Varanasi and Lucknow. The Kushinagar international airport became operational after it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 20 while work on the international airport in Ayodhya is in full swing and air services are expected to start early next year,” the spokesperson said. “The fifth international airport is to come up at Jewar near Noida in the National Capital Region (NCR),” the spokesperson added.The Noida International Airport will be India’s largest airport after its completion. It will come up about 72 km from the existing Indira Gandhi International airport in New Delhi, 40 km from Noida and about 40 km from the multi-modal logistics hub at Dadri, said the spokesperson.At present, Uttar Pradesh has eight operational airports, while 13 airports and seven airstrips are being developed. The operational airports handling commercial flights in UP are in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Agra, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Hindon (Ghaziabad).Uttar Pradesh minister for civil aviation Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi will go to the site on Tuesday to oversee preparations for the November 25 event.“The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to providing affordable, accessible, safe and international standard air services to the common citizens of the state. Noida International Airport will prove to be the jewel in the crown of Uttar Pradesh. It would prove an economic engine for the development of Uttar Pradesh in the days to come. I, with my team, will remain in Jewar from tomorrow to personally monitor the groundbreaking and foundation laying ceremony of the airport,” the minister said.“It will truly be a momentous achievement for a state that is on its way to be a leader in civil aviation in the country,” he added.Phase I of the airport will have the capacity to serve 12 million passengers a year and is scheduled to be completed in 36 months. The Noida International Airport will expand to serve 70 million passengers by the end of phase 4, subject to passenger growth and traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/noida-international-airport-uttar-pradesh-government-preps-for-groundbreaking-ceremony-101637597627424.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Lalu hints alliance with Chirag’s party||A day after members of LJP (Ram Vilas) state parliamentary board said that the party is looking to form a new political equation to contest elections for 24 MLC seats in Bihar, RJD national president Lalu Prasad on Monday also hinted of forging a new alliance with Congress and Chirag Paswan’s party.The LJP (Ram Vilas) state parliamentary board has authorized Chirag to take a call on alliance with the RJD. Talking to mediapersons on Monday in Delhi on his way to Patna to appear before the CBI court in a fodder scam case, Lalu said, “RJD, Congress and Chirag Paswan’s party will fight together in the upcoming Legislative Council elections. For this, talks are being held with Chirag Paswan, while the Congress is his old ally and both the parties have fought many elections together.”Elections for the 24 MLC seats from local bodies’ quota which had fallen vacant since July is likely to be held after the panchayat polls gets over in first week of December. Taking a dig at the Bihar government on the prohibition issue, Lalu said, “This law has failed in Bihar. Nitish Kumar has completely failed in implementing the prohibition law. When he was making this law, I had warned Nitish that liquor was being sold openly around Bihar in Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Nepal. In such a situation, it will be very difficult to stop the smuggling of liquor in Bihar, but Nitish had assured to implement it successfully,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-hints-alliance-with-chirag-s-party-101637597267438.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Inmate stabbed to death in Patna jail||A 20-year-old undertrial was allegedly stabbed to death by an inmate inside the Phulwarisharif District Jail in Patna on Monday morning, police said.The deceased, identified as Tuntun Rai, was lodged in the jail since September this year with charges of murder, motorcycle theft and liquor smuggling. “Around 9.30 am, jail administration was informed about the undertrial being attacked by an inmate identified as Mohammad Munna following a quarrel. The prisoner was rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead around 12.30pm”, said jail Superintendent Lal Babu Singh. On the other hand, victim’s father Topan Rai claimed that he got the information about the incident around 11am from a visitor. “I got the information about the attack around 11am from a visitor who had gone to meet his kin. I was informed that my son has been stabbed and rushed to hospital,” said Rai while speaking to the media.IG (Prison) Mithilesh Mishra, who visited the spot, told HT that the accused inmate has been booked for murder. “Twenty-one-year-old Munna, a butcher by profession, is lodged in jail since 2019 for the murder of his cousin”, said the IG, adding that the accused had used a scissor to commit the crime. The attack was the fallout of an argument that had taken place between the two some time ago, he said.According to jail officials, the accused procured the scissors from the jail since face masks are currently being made in the campus as a part of jail activity. Inmates alleged that the murder was committed in a planned manner and jail officials were a part of it. According to them, Tuntun was attacked with a sharp object when he was on way to his barrack from the canteen. After the incident, when the injured inmate was rushed to the jail hospital, they found doctors were absent. “The jail inmates told me that he was stabbed at 9 am and had he had to be rushed to a hospital as there was no doctor in jail,” said the father of the deceased. On January 3, 2020, an undertrial prisoner-cum-gold robber Manish Singh alias Telia alias Netaji was shot dead inside the Vaishali jail after which several inmates had alleged that the jail superintendent was hand in glove with criminals and even helped them execute the murder. Later a jail staff Rajkumar Sahni was arrested on charges for smuggling a loaded 9mm pistol inside the jail while police recovered ₹2 lakh cash from his almirah, which he allegedly received as a bribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/inmate-stabbed-to-death-inside-patna-jail-101637597206855.html
22-11-2021||Noida||MSRTC strike: Act against unions that stop staffers from resuming work, HC tells govt||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the protesting employees of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to consider the inconvenience that is being caused to students and villagers owing to their stir and asked representatives of each of the 26 striking unions to meet the three-member HC-constituted committee and place their grievances and demands before it over the next few days and come out with a concrete and amicable resolution on the issue by December 20. The court also directed the state government to initiate criminal proceedings against unions or persons trying to dissuade drivers and conductors who were willing to resume duties, as it would create a direct hindrance to the education seekers. The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Shriram Modak, while hearing the contempt petition filed by MSRTC against the workers’ union and its members for not complying with orders of HC and industrial court that had restrained from going on strike from midnight of November 3, was informed by senior advocate SU Kamdar for the transport body that the ongoing stir was causing a lot of problems for students and those living in far off places. Kamdar submitted that though offline classes had started, students living in rural areas were unable to attend schools or colleges as ST bus services were not available. He submitted that villagers were finding it difficult to go to nearby cities and earn their livelihoods. Kamdar said the committee had conducted the second hearing with the representatives of two unions on November 16 and would continue to meet representatives of the other unions too. Advocate Gunaratan Sadavarte, representing the unions and employees, submitted that the state was “not concerned” about the well-being of the striking ST staffers as no medical facilities were provided to the agitators who have been sitting at Azad Maidan since the stir commenced. The state, however, assured the court that two ambulances had been stationed at Azad Maidan for emergencies, and all necessary arrangements were made to ensure that the agitators were not facing any problems. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the strike was causing a “loss to education” and hence, the agitators should take it into consideration and try to resolve the problem at the earliest. The court also directed the state government to ensure that the issue of loss of education of students was addressed. The court said as some of the agitators were willing to resume duties, in the interest of students and the poor, action should be initiated against unions and their members if they tried to discourage the employees from joining duty. The court has sought a progress report of the committee meetings and posted hearing of the contempt petition to December 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/msrtc-strike-act-against-unions-that-stop-staffers-from-resuming-work-hc-tells-govt-101637597088637.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Bihar govt docs’ body supports 65 facing heat for absence||The Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA), a forum of government doctors, has cautioned the state health department for taking action against 65 medical officers, in-charge of primary and community health centres, for their alleged absence from duty during the Covid-19 vaccination mega camp in the state on October 18. The state health department issued orders on November 16 withholding one annual increment of 65 doctors, who were allegedly missing from their place of posting on the day of the mega camp. Their absence contributed to poor vaccination coverage in their respective areas on the day, health officials said. The said doctors also did not respond to the show-cause notice within the stipulated 48-hour period, the health department had given them to explain. However, the doctors claimed that many did not receive any show-cause notice and had no idea about the mechanism the department adopted to check their presence at their respective workstations. “Many doctors have told us that they never received the government’s show-cause notice. Civil surgeons in some districts like Saran are getting examined the issue of show-cause notice to doctors. Some doctors have told us that they present at their workplace and had yet been marked absent. Others have said they were on field duty for a brief time. We have asked doctors, who feel they have been wrongly faulted, to write to us so that we take up their case with the additional chief secretary and request him not to penalise the doctors,” said BHSA officiating general secretary Dr Ranjit Kumar. “The government should conduct a full-fledged inquiry before initiating action against doctors. Our patience should not be misconstrued as our weakness. The government must not forget the diligent work doctors have done during the peak of the pandemic,” added Dr Kumar. “It is the doctors who work their hearts out and are at the forefront of fighting the pandemic, but are relegated to the background when it comes to giving credit for the good work done either in controlling the pandemic or increasing the vaccination coverage,” he added. Dr Abbas Hasrat, a member of the BHSA said a delegation of doctors was contemplating meeting Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, and request him not to take any coercive action against the doctors. BHSA member, Dr Rohit Kumar, posted at Saran, said, “We may give the government one week time to reconsider its decision and will convene another meeting on November 28 to decide our future course of action.” Among the doctors facing the heat are 10 from Katihar district, five from Madhubani, four each from Purnia, Samastipur, Bhojpur and Begusarai, three each from Darbhanga, Madhepura, Munger, two each from Patna, Jamui, Gopalganj, Kishanganj, Supaul, Saran, Nalanda and one each from Banka, Araria, Nawada, Sitamarhi, Vaishali, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Rohtas, Khagaria, East Champaran and Buxar districts. Bihar had administered over 75.61 million vaccination doses till Monday afternoon against its target to inoculate 73.44 million eligible adult population with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. As many as 52.65 million people had taken the first dose and 22.96 million had completed both the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-docs-body-supports-65-facing-heat-for-absence-101637597087446.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Brigade slaps notice to 90 residential buildings for flouting fire safety norms||Mumbai: As a preemptive measure to curb rising cases of fire incidents in the city, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) has sent notices to as many as 90 residential buildings across 24 administrative wards of Mumbai civic body in the last two weeks owing to non-compliance with fire safety measures in their properties.MFB has deployed a special team of officers who are paying regular visits to the buildings for inspection at the ward level. The aggressive campaign came as a result of Mumbai witnessing several fire incidents in the last couple of months. Now, the MFB wants to ensure that all the residential properties follow strict fire safety rules and have the fire-fighting apparatus functional. The officials were alarmed to discover that several high-rise buildings either have defunct firefighting systems, poor quality water pipes or have not carried out maintenance works of fire systems for many years.As per the Maharashtra Fire Act, each housing society is given a maximum of 120 days to repair the fault in their fire-fighting system if these societies do not start the repair works within 30 days, then prohibitory action will be taken against them.Speaking with HT, chief fire officer Hemant Parab said that in case society is unable to start the repair works within the deadline, then they should flag it in advance or else the officials may take action.“After visiting the buildings, our officials inspect the fire systems and if they find any issue in them, they give them a deadline to resolve it. Even though the maximum number of days for solving the issue is four months, we start to take prohibitory action if the repair works do not start within one month after the notice is served,” cleared Parab, asserting, “Some of the buildings have faulty boosters and some have defunct sprinklers. Many of these issues could be resolved within weeks and do not take four months’ time. If we find that there is an unnecessary delay, then we will be cutting the water and electricity supply of these buildings.”Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator in the BMC said, “The regulations have been there for several years; however, it is being implemented at an aggressive level now. Hope this process is streamlined and regular and doesn’t get stalled again midway,” said Shirsat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-slaps-notice-to-90-residential-buildings-for-flouting-fire-safety-norms-101637596967722.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Bombay High Court orders investigation against education director Dhanraj Mane||The Bombay High Court has recently ordered an investigation against Dhanraj Mane, higher education director, after allegations of an incident wherein he used abusive language against a subordinate. The action was taken after a former Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Bertrand Muller filed a complaint.In the alleged incident, a woman clerk working at the education department was verbally abused by Mane. To protest against the incident, other officials from the department also protested. However, no further investigation was done in the matter.Former MLA Muller filed an electronic complaint to the high court after the matter came before him. The high court has issued an investigation order against Mane with regard to the allegations.Muller said that there have been several incidents where Mane has used abusive language against his subordinates.“And in many cases, the victim is forced and pressured to retract the complaint. Hence, as soon as I got the information about the incident, I approached the High Court. With this investigation, various other incidents are likely to come forward,” said Muller.Despite several attempts, Mane did not respond to calls or messages from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bombay-high-court-orders-investigation-against-education-director-dhanraj-mane-101637596427418.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Bhinder arrested for cheating, criminal breach of trust by Versova police||The Versova police, on Monday, arrested Roshan Bhinder, the widow of Garry Bhinder, who used to be a top director for Ekta Kapoor’s tele-serials. Roshan has been accused of cheating and criminal breach of trust by actor Hiten Tejwani and businessman Rajesh Jaisinghani.Roshan’s husband, Garry, was assistant director for Kapoor’s Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and went on to direct several of her subsequent serials. He succumbed to cancer in 2008. In June 2019, Roshan approached them with a proposal for a web series to be developed for online streaming platforms. Accordingly, Jaisinghani paid ₹37 lakh into a joint account set up for the project and a contract was signed.However, Jaisinghani and Tejwani soon started receiving complaints from crew members that they were not being paid.“On November 9, 2019, Roshan informed us that the streaming platform had cancelled the contract. On November 15, 2019, the three of us met in Juhu, where I asked Roshan to return the ₹37 lakh that I had invested. Roshan refused and told me to do my worst,” Jaisinghani said.Subsequently, Jaisinghani also learnt that Roshan had diverted some money to her own account. He approached the Versova police and an FIR was registered on January 27 this year. She subsequently approached the Bombay High Court seeking anticipatory bail. Her plea was denied in October.In its order, the HC referred to the diversion of funds and non-payment of wages to the crew members.“When confronted, there is no material made available by the Applicant while enjoying interim protection justifying the expenses either to this Court or to Investigating Officer. As such, the amount which was handed over to the Applicant in trust appears to have been misappropriated,” the HC observed.Senior police inspector Siraaj Inamdar, Versova police station confirmed that Roshan had been placed under arrest on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhinder-arrested-for-cheating-criminal-breach-of-trust-by-versova-police-101637596067711.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 128 new Covid cases, one death||Pune: As of Monday, Pune district has reported 128 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,018 deaths and 2,125 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 54,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 48 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 367,246 and the death toll stood at 6,948 as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 48 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 522,533 and the death toll stood at 9,212 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 32 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,512 and the toll stood at 3,509 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 54,819 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Monday and in total 12,719,746. Of which 8,002,211 are first doses and 4,717,535 are second doses. A total of 687 sites saw vaccination of which 538 were government centres and 149 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-128-new-covid-cases-one-death-101637595947435.html
22-11-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh on its way to becoming only state with 5 international airports||Uttar Pradesh will soon become the only state in India to have five international airports following the groundbreaking and foundation-laying ceremony for the Noida International Airport on November 25, the state government said in a press release.According to the release, the achievement took less than five years. The state government also said in the release that the GatiShakti National Master Plan launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month “infused a sense of urgency into the plans for infrastructure development in the state.”The Noida International Airport (NIA), which is coming up in Jewar in Gautam Buddh Nagar of the National Capital Region (NCR), is slated to be India’s largest. The airport is located 72km from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, 40km from Noida and about 40km from the multi-modal logistics hub at Dadri.The Noida International Airport is also going to have multi-modal connectivity due to its proximity to the existing Yamuna Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and will also be linked to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh in Haryana's Faridabad district.The airport will also be connected to Noida via the Metro as well as the proposed Delhi-Varanasi high-speed rail airport terminal.The other aspects of the Noida International Airport are its ability to serve more than 12 million passengers a year, which will later be expanded to 70 million passengers by the end of Phase 4, according to the release.The airport will be expanded after every phase depending on the passenger growth and traffic and is expected to be completed in the next 36 months.According to the release, the work on the international airport in Ayodhya is in full swing with services slated to start early next year.While there were only two international airports in the state until 2012—Lucknow and Varanasi—Uttar Pradesh currently has 8 operational airports and 13 airports and 7 airstrips are being developed.The Lucknow, Varanasi, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Agra, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Hindon airports handle commercial flights||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uttar-pradesh-on-its-way-to-becoming-only-state-with-5-international-airports-101637594446373.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Nerul man arrested for not getting tested for Covid||Nerul police have arrested a 42-year-old man from Nerul for obstructing the work of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials on Sunday. He refused to undergo Covid antigen test. The incident occurred when the NMMC officials visited N2 Building of Sector 15, Nerul, for contact tracing of a Covid positive patient from the same building. The accused, identified as Vipinkumar Puranchand Bhola, did not allow the officials to take his sample and also abused and pushed the officials. “The accused is currently in judicial custody,” assistant police inspector Milind Phadtare from Nerul police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nerul-man-arrested-for-not-getting-tested-for-covid-101637594567260.html
22-11-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC orders CBI inquiry into Bengal school recruitment irregularities||The Calcutta High Court on Monday ordered a preliminary inquiry by the CBI into alleged irregularities in the appointment of Group D staff in aided/sponsored schools under the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE) on purported recommendations by the state's School Service Commission (SSC).The order was passed on a petition by some job aspirants, claiming that appointments were given to persons after the expiry of the panel proposed for the posts of Group D staff in aided/sponsored secondary and higher secondary schools in the state.Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay directed the CBI to hold a preliminary inquiry into the alleged irregularities and submit a report before the court by December 21.Further orders in the matter will be passed after the submission of the preliminary inquiry report by the central agency, the court observed.The petitioners had initially produced before the court a list of 25 such appointees, but later claimed that more than 500 additional such appointments were made.The WBBSE claimed that all the appointments were given on the basis of recommendations by the SSC. But the commission submitted an affidavit before the court stating that after May 4, 2019, when the panel of Group D staff had expired, no recommendation letter was issued by it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-orders-cbi-inquiry-into-bengal-school-recruitment-irregularities-101637593591008.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli corporators quit BJP to join Sena||Several BJP corporators of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) quit the party and joined Shiv Sena ahead of the civic elections in the presence of Urban Development Minister, Eknath Shinde, and MP Shrikant Shinde. Those who quit BJP include ex-corporator Mahesh Patil, Sunita Patil and Sayali Vichare. Apart from these, several transport committee members and gram panchayat members entered Sena, which claimed that many more would join them in the coming days. Patil said, “We saw the developmental work Shrikant Shinde had carried out in the constituency and wanted to be a part of the development. Thus, we have decided to join the Sena.”BJP MLA Ravindra Chavan told media that maybe his party has fallen short somewhere and his well wishes are with those who left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-corporators-quit-bjp-to-join-sena-101637593549279.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drugs raid: Man accused of supplying charas is 16th person to get bail||A special court on Monday granted bail to Shivraj Ramdas Harijan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for allegedly supplying drugs to Arbaaz Merchant – a friend of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan. Merchant and Aryan were arrested by the agency in the cruise drugs bust case and later granted bail. Harijan, 33, is the 16th of the nearly 20 accused in the case to get bail. The agency had claimed that they have seized 62 grams of charas from Harijan which was part of the city’s supply network. Harijan’s counsel Sandeep Sherkhane informed special NDPS court judge VV Patil that his client was falsely implicated in the case and made a scapegoat because of “media hype”. Sherkhane also argued Harijan had no links with Merchant and that he had never met or seen any of the other accused in the case in his lifetime. He had argued that the charas that was claimed to have been seized from Harijan was small in quantity, and as such, it was a bailable offence. He had also submitted that even if the contraband seized from the different accused is added, it still would not be enough to make them liable for commercial quantity. Harijan was arrested on the basis of statement given by Merchant to NCB officers under section 67 (any authorised officer may, during any inquiry, call for information from any person to satisfy himself whether there has been any contravention of the provisions of the Act) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, but such a statement is not even admissible as evidence and cannot be relied upon, Sherkhane had submitted. He also claimed that Merchant had retracted his statement before a magistrate court. Harijan was arrested by NCB on October 10. The agency claimed to have found charas from Harijan’s home at Murugan Chawl in Santacruz (West) during searches. NCB had also claimed then Harijan was an “important” part of city’s charas supply chain. Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on the evening of October 2. Aryan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drugs-raid-man-accused-of-supplying-charas-is-16th-person-to-get-bail-101637593309001.html
22-11-2021||Other||Youth must serve society, says Punjab guv at GNDU convocation||Amritsar The country today needs incorruptible young men and women who will dedicate themselves to the service of the larger society through individual pursuits, Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday. “It is possible to rise above corrupt temptations when one develops frugal needs and sets self within the framework of dharma, which means cultured, sensible life ... Young minds must ponder over this and mould their personalities in accordance with what Guru Nanak Dev Ji preached,” said Purohit, in his address at the convocation of Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar.On the occasion, 225 PhD, seven M Phil, 99 post-graduate and 64 under-graduate degrees were awarded to students across faculties and streams of study. Congratulating graduates, researchers, and award & medal winners on their academic achievements, the governor said that: “I stand before you to reiterate some fundamental philosophies and findings of experts in fields connected with education. The path to progress is illuminated by the lamp of education. Prosperity knocks at your door when people in society acquire the asset of education. Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa used to say, ‘As long as I live, so long do I learn.”He said that it is expected that an alliance of elementary education and higher along with technical education would help in attaining the aims of expansion, progression, advancement and distinction in education. It will not only improve the literacy ratio but will also become a means to add values of compliance, invention and modernisation in the society, he added. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh also addressed the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youth-must-serve-society-says-punjab-guv-at-gndu-convocation-101637592827350.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||3 injured as society lift falls from 4th floor in Bhiwandi||Three persons suffered injuries after a lift of a society collapsed from fourth floor to the ground floor in Bhoiwada area of Bhiwandi on Sunday night. Bhoiwada police have admitted the injured to a hospital and will take the opinion of lift technicians to find the reason for the collapse. A case will accordingly be filed against those found guilty.A lift of the Global complex in Vitthal Nagar suddenly collapsed at around 10.30pm. The injured, identified as Wasim Ansari (45), Juber Shaikh (40) and Nizam Shaikh (50) went to their friend’s house for dinner and were returning home. They took the lift that stopped on the fourth floor and fell almost 50 feet deep below. Bhoiwada senior police inspector, S Indulkar, said, “We have called for experts and inquired about the incident but have not yet filed any case. The three residents suffered leg injuries and they are admitted in the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-injured-as-society-lift-falls-from-4th-floor-in-bhiwandi-101637592227503.html
22-11-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru airport becomes 1st facility in South Asia to commission Rosenbauer firefighting equipment||Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, has commissioned a state-of-the-art firefighting system Rosenbauer Tactical Simulator, making it the first facility in South Asia to have this high-tech equipment, BIAL said on Monday in a statement.The Rosenbauer Tactical Simulator, which offers numerous scenarios to prepare for real emergencies to both the firefighter at the Bengaluru airport as well as to those from other airports, state fire departments and defence forces, will help in strengthening further its such capabilities, Bangalore International Airport Ltd (BIAL) said.The simulator has a cockpit that matches every detail of the Rosenbauer fire truck, providing a realistic experience in the operation of crash fire tenders, including all operating controls, from the steering wheel to turret control, projected through multiple 55-inch HD screens, it said.With this simulator, firefighters can train in a realistic environment, master the tactical use of Rosenbauer Panther trucks as well as operate High Reach Extendable Turrets (HRET) for extreme aircraft fire emergencies, it said.To ensure the safety and security of all stakeholders, including passengers and airlines, BIAL has added four advanced Rosenbauer Crash Fire Tenders (CFTs) to its fleet.Two Rosenbauer Panther 6x6 trucks and two Rosenbauer Panther 8x8 trucks, including two with HRETs, were recently commissioned, taking the overall number of CFTs in its fleet to eight, the airport operator stated.BIAL Chief Operating Officer Jayaraj Shanmugam said, "With the Rosenbauer Crash Fire Tenders, we are well-equipped to efficiently handle difficult fire emergencies. We believe in training our teams, equipping them with advanced tools and modern technology, providing them with hands-on experience and keeping them ready to contain any possible emergencies."Shanmugam added that the tactical simulator will support strengthening the airport's firefighting capabilities even further.The simulator provides incident commanders, crew commanders and lead firefighters an opportunity to gain experience in the tactical use of CFTs through turret control and application of firefighting agents, command and control, vehicle operation and basic driving and positioning skills, BIAL said.Firefighters can be prepared for all kinds of aircraft-related emergencies as multiple scenarios can be customised, the private airport operator said.It added that simulator training increases the professional competency of firefighters as the scenarios are realistic and sessions can be replayed for effective evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-airport-becomes-1st-facility-in-south-asia-to-commission-rosenbauer-firefighting-equipment-101637591321972.html
22-11-2021||Pune||SPPU student Priyanka Jawale selected as legal officer at MEA||PUNE Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) postdoctoral fellow Priyanka Jawale was recently selected by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as a legal officer at the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Government of India (GOI).SPPU has started its unique postdoctoral programme, and Dr Priyanka Jawale is from its first batch of SPPU-Postdoctoral Fellowship (PDF) 2019.Recently, the UPSC has announced the results for the higher positions that required certain years of experience in the specific field. Jawale is selected as a legal officer in the law and treaty division of the MEA.The portfolio for the position requires looking after India’s international legal affairs. UPSC conducted the selection process for the six positions of the legal officer for the ministry of external affairs, but ultimately from all over India, only three candidates were selected based on their subject expertise and required skills.Jawale is PhD in nuclear energy laws, and now her postdoctoral research work is in the domain of space laws, particularly ‘The use of nuclear in space exploration: Law and policy’, under the mentorship of senior professor Durgambini Patel, at the department of law, SPPU.Jawale is working in the area of nuclear energy laws and space laws and policy. Earlier, Jawale had participated and presented her research work at the international conference organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the United Nations specialised organisation in the area of concern.Jyoti Bhakre, head of the department of law, said, “Jawale should be appreciated for the hard work and for selection under work profile.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-student-priyanka-jawale-selected-as-legal-officer-at-mea-101637591507803.html
22-11-2021||Pune||4 vehicles stolen every day in Pune; most stolen from residential areas||PUNE The city is witnessing thefts of at least four vehicles daily on an average. Most of the vehicles have been found stolen from residential areas followed by the theft of vehicles parked at public places, as per Pune police.According to data provided by Pune police, in 2021 till October 31, 1,186 vehicles have been stolen and in 2020, as many as 974 vehicles were stolen compared to 1,677 vehicles stolen in 2019.Vehicles belonging to some specific companies have been targeted by thieves due to the resale value the vehicle fetches in the market. The policemen have also advised those companies to initiate a strong locking mechanism of their two-wheelers and also the citizens have been advised to put in place a digital locking system or install a GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) based system to thwart vehicle thefts.According to the police, those residential societies that don’t deploy guards have been most vulnerable for vehicle thefts and also those residential areas where there is no place to park the vehicles. The residents of such areas park their vehicles at public places from where they get stolen.According to the police statistics, as many as 401 vehicles have been stolen from Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Mundhwa and Wanowrie police station areas of zone V of the city commissionerate from January 1 till October 31 this year.DCP (Crime) Sriniwas Ghadge said, “ We are taking strong steps against vehicle theft. The number of thefts was less during the Covid-19 lockdown period and necessary action has been initiated. We appeal to the citizens to lock their vehicles and park in areas which are under CCTV surveillance.”The police have listed gardens, government offices, state transport (ST) bus stands, hospitals, temples, schools, colleges, business centres, banks and ATMs as the different places where the vehicle thieves had struck.The policemen have also researched that there are 67 spots in the city from where vehicles are regularly stolen and traced as many as 25 vehicle thieves on police records who have been engaged in stealing two-wheelers repeatedly from public roads and residential societies. These culprits have been arrested and their links with their counterparts have also been traced.The two-wheelers stolen from Pune are usually sold in rural parts of the district, Marathwada and North Maharashtra. The police have also found that two-wheelers stolen and dismantled and their spare parts are stolen by mechanics of different garages with the objective of making money without getting caught by the policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-vehicles-stolen-every-day-in-pune-most-stolen-from-residential-areas-101637590247206.html
22-11-2021||Other||Soni meets health dept officials; to meet employees today||Chandigarh Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Monday held a meeting with officials of the health and family planning department to address grievances of department employees. Soni, who holds the portfolio of health, listened to demands of employee unions and after deliberation, he announced for a comprehensive plan to resolve all issues. He also convened a meeting of department officers on November 23 (Tuesday) in which representatives of employee unions had also been invited. He directed secretary, finance, to be part of the meeting so that genuine demands of the employees could be met without delay. Soni has also asked protesting employees to return to work as their demands will be met. Punjab Health Systems Corporation managing director (MD) Bhupinder Singh; National Health Mission MD Kumar Rahul, director health Dr Andesh Kang, and director health services Dr OP Gojra also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soni-meets-health-dept-officials-to-meet-employees-today-101637590126989.html
22-11-2021||Indore||Indore's Patalpani station is named after Tantya Bhil. All about the ‘Indian Robin Hood’||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Monday that the Patalpani railway station in Indore will be renamed after Tantya Bhil, also known as the “Indian Robin Hood”."Tribal pride, Mama Tantya Bhil's sacrifice day is on 4th December. Indore Bus Stand and Patalpani Railway Station to be named after Tantya Mama," Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted.Notably, the decision follows a move by the state government to rename Habibganj railway station to Rani Kamlapati Station after the famous Gond queen.Watch the announcement made by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan:Who is Tantya Mama?Known as the “Indian Robin Hood”, Tantya Bhil was a dacoit in India between 1878 and 1889.Going by the British accounts of that time, he has been described as a criminal but was considered a heroic figure by Indians.Tantya Bhil, who belonged to the Bhil tribe of the indigenous Adivasi community, was born in 1840 in Badada village under East Nimar, now known as Khandwa, in Madhya Pradesh.According to reports, Tantya decided to stage a revolt against the British following the rebellion of 1857 after which it imposed harsh measures. However, he was arrested in 1874 for "bad livelihood".Following a year-long sentence, Tantya took to more serious crimes including theft and kidnapping. He was again put behind bars in 1878 in Khandwa but escaped after spending three days in prison and became a dacoit.Tantya is hailed as one of the revolutionaries who waged an armed struggle against British rule for 12 years. Reports said he used to plunder the treasuries of the British government and the wealth of their followers to distribute it among the poor and needy.Tantya has since become a long-cherished pride of the Bhil tribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/indores-patalpani-station-is-named-after-tantya-bhil-all-about-the-indian-robin-hood-101637589754410.html
22-11-2021||Other||No-confidence motion: Patiala mayor calls House meeting on November 25||Patiala Nearly a week after 42 of 60 councillors of the Patiala municipal corporation sent a requisition to him expressing their no-confidence, mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu has decided to hold a general House meeting on November 25 to prove his majority. The requisition was sent under Section 39 of the Patiala Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, which defines the process of removal of the mayor, the senior deputy mayor and the deputy mayor. According to the act, the mayor can be removed if two-thirds (40 required in this case) of councillors express no-confidence in him/her. “Almost all House members have lost confidence in you. Therefore, it would be appropriate for you to either resign from your post on moral grounds or call a House meeting and prove confidence in you as per law,” the requisition sent on November 18 says. A protégé of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Bittu has been facing stiff rebellion from fellow councillors over his proximity with Amarinder. Of the 60 seats in the House, 32 are in Captain’s constituency, 26 in local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra’s Patiala (rural) constituency and two in Sanaur. “They submitted their requisition with me on November 18. As per the Patiala Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, I am required to hold a meeting 14 days of the requisition, but the meeting has been called within a week,” the mayor said, “I am prepared and will face the no-confidence motion without fear or worry.”A senior councillor claimed, “The Patiala mayor enjoys confidence of about 18 councillors. His supporters have gone underground as they fear intimidation of some sort from the opposite group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noconfidence-motion-patiala-mayor-calls-house-meeting-on-november-25-101637589766867.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Keeping politics aside, Samajwadi Party celebrates Mulayam birthday||Sidestepping all politics in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh for the day, the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Monday celebrated the 82nd birthday of party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav statewide.Addressing the party cadres during the main event held at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow, Mulayam Singh Yadav said, “Politics of change is sweeping the country, the youth will usher in change. The enthusiasm of you all will ring in that change.”“I am very thankful that all of you invited me and (are) celebrating my birthday. I want the birthdays of the poorer people, too, should be celebrated. Invite me over for such birthdays, I will try to come,” Mulayam further said.His son and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav didn’t deliver any speech on the occasion.No political activities, joining (of leaders from other parties), or alliance announcements happened on the day contrary to earlier speculation that Akhilesh will join hands with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav and his party, the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L), on the occasion.On November 3, Akhilesh Yadav had declared the intent to try and forge an alliance with PSP-L. He had made the politically significant comment in his ancestral village Saifai (Etawah) ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls.PSP-L also celebrated Mulayam’s birthday at their Lucknow headquarters and other districts. Mulayam’s younger brother Shivpal Yadav reached Saifai, held the birthday celebrations, cut a cake and organised a dangaal (wrestling competition) there.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and many other top politicians in the country tweeted their birthday wishes to Mulayam.The SP celebrated Mulayam’s birthday in all the districts of Uttar Pradesh. At the Lucknow SP headquarters, the party leaders had arranged for two 82 kg laddoos, one 51 kg laddoo, and several cakes which Mulayam cut with Akhilesh and party leaders at the event held at the open-air stage and the main lawns of the office. A song specially created for Mulayam birthday played intermittently throughout the celebrations. The party workers and leaders across the state also organised the distribution of fruits and blood donation. In Lucknow, 82 party workers donated blood.Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP and UP incharge Sanjay Singh called on Mulayam at his residence in the morning and greeted him with bouquets.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) state president Masood Ahmed and RLD national secretary Anil Dubey attended the birthday celebrations at the SP state headquarters. Both RLD and SP have said that the two parties will announce their alliance for the 2022 UP assembly polls soon.Mulayam Singh Yadav was born to Murti Devi and Sughar Singh on November 22, 1939, in Saifai village of Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh. His cousin Ramgopal Yadav, brother Shivpal Yadav, son Akhilesh Yadav, nephews Dharmendra Yadav and Akshaya Yadav, daughter-in-law Dimple Yadav, and grandnephew Tej Pratap Singh Yadav are in politics.Mulayam founded the Samajwadi Party in 1992 and turned it into a major regional political party.His entry into politics had its origin in a wrestling match. Mulayam was participating in a match in Mainpuri and impressed Nathu Singh, the then MLA of Jaswantnagar in Mainpuri, with his skills and resilience. Nathu Singh picked up Mulayam as his protege in politics and in 1967 fielded his as the candidate on his Jaswantnagar assembly seat on the Sanyukta Socialist Party ticket and himself shifted to another constituency.Mulayam Singh Yadav has been the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh thrice: 1989-91, 1993-95 and 2003-2007. He also served as the defence minister in the United Front government from 1996 to 1998.Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended birthday wishes to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday morning. In a tweet in Hindi, Modi said: “Birthday greetings to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav ji. He has made a significant contribution to the politics of the country. I wish him a healthy and long life.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh too wished the veteran politician and said on Twitter: “Heartiest birthday greetings and best wishes to former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Mulayam Singh Yadavji. I wish him good health and long life.”UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in his tweet in Hindi, wrote: “Heartiest greetings and best wishes to the former UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav ji. I pray to Lord Ram for your good health and long life.” Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya wished a long and healthy life for the SP patriarch on Koo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/keeping-politics-aside-samajwadi-party-celebrates-mulayam-birthday-101637589649657.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks magistrate to defer hearing in complaint against Rahul Gandhi||In a relief for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Girgaon magistrate court to defer the hearing of the defamation complaint by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Mahesh Hukumchand Shrishrimal post-December 20 after the counsel for the complainant sought time to file a reply to the politician’s petition. Gandhi’s petition, which seeks quashing of the defamation complaint, will come up for hearing on December 16. The single-judge bench of justice SK Shinde was informed by Shrishrimal’s advocate Rohan Mahadik that he needed time to respond to the petition, and hence, the hearing should be adjourned. However, advocate Sudeep Pasbola, who represented Gandhi, told the bench that the summons issued by the magistrate court had asked the Congress leader to appear before it in person on November 25. Hence, in light of the adjournment sought by the complainant’s lawyer, some interim protection should be granted to Gandhi. Mahadik then tried to interject and wanted to point out the order which was under challenge. But justice Shinde retorted, “Either you argue or you take time to file reply. You cannot do both”. When Mahadik sought for time to file the reply, the bench directed the magistrate court to defer the proceedings beyond December 20 and granted two weeks’ time to him to do so. While challenging the complaint, Gandhi had stated that as the alleged defamatory statement he had made in Rajasthan in 2018 was against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, only the latter could lodge such a plaint. However, as the complaint was lodged by a person who did not have a locus, the magistrate had erred in issuing him the summons and hence, the complaint should be quashed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-magistrate-to-defer-hearing-in-complaint-against-rahul-gandhi-101637589527010.html
22-11-2021||Bangalore||Heavy rains lead to waterlogging in Bengaluru. Check videos||Heavy and incessant rainfall in Bengaluru led to severe waterlogging in the Yelahanka area of the city, photographs tweeted by news agency ANI showed on Monday. According to reports, the water receded in most parts of the city by Monday morning, but many areas, including Kogilu Cross, Kondappa Layout, stayed flooded during the day as well.Chief commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Gaurav Gupta said that water will come down gradually as there was no problem from the engineering point of view. “We have deployed many boats, SDRF and other teams to give emergency supplies to the residents,” Gaurav Gupta told ANI.“The 8 feet stormwater drain is insufficient in the given conditions. We are working on a required 30-40ft wide drain, particularly with RCC cement and concrete walls, so that the water doesn't go into the low-lying areas,” he added.In one of the videos tweeted by ANI, roads in Kendriya Vihar area are seen completely submerged in the water. Police are seen escorting the residents of the area to a safer place. #WATCH | Karnataka: Waterlogging amid heavy rainfall affects residents of Kendriya Vihar area, Bengaluru pic.twitter.com/uQ9MIvhk0UKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said ₹500 crore will be released for repair of roads and bridges that have been damaged due to incessant rains and floods in different parts of the state and instructions have been issued for immediate disbursal of compensation for those whose houses have been damaged.#WATCH | Karnataka: Allalasandra Lake overflows near Yelahanka in Bengaluru due to heavy rainfall and causes waterlogging in the vicinity of Chikkaballapur Road. Visuals from earlier today. pic.twitter.com/SP5ournHtE" ₹500 crore will be released for the repair of damaged roads and bridges, I have instructed immediate release of ₹1 lakh (first instalment) to those whose houses have been fully damaged, and also to release money for those whose houses have been partially damaged," Bommai said.Waterlogging affects several parts of Bengaluru, Karnataka, todayVisuals from Kogilu Cross to Kendriya Vihar Apartment, Venkatala village pic.twitter.com/wfQ6Rd6ap1Basavaraj Bommai also visited rain-affected areas of Karnataka's Chikkaballapur district. As many as 24 people lost their lives till Sunday evening due to rains and floods caused by it across the state since the beginning of this month, officials of the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority have said.As per the preliminary loss and damages estimated by the authority since November 1, as many as 658 houses have been completely damaged and 8,495 houses have been partially damaged.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/heavy-rains-lead-to-waterlogging-in-bengaluru-check-videos-101637587377102.html
22-11-2021||Other||Man arrested for kidnapping and raping 8-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur||Police arrested a man for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl in Rudrapur area of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district on Monday. Later, he was produced in the court, said police. “We have arrested a man from Rudrapur on the complaint of a woman. The woman had alleged that the accused had kidnapped and raped her 8-year-old daughter,” said Manoj Joshi, in-charge, Rampura police outpost in Rudrapur. Joshi said a woman filed a complaint against a man named Bunty Thakur, who hails from Rampur area in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. “She alleged that when she was out for work, her 8-year-old daughter was playing in the courtyard. Bunty, a dumper driver kidnapped and raped her. He threatened her that he would kill her if she divulged the act committed by him. But the minor revealed her ordeal to her mother,” he said. On daughter’s revelation, the woman approached the police outpost and lodged a complaint against the accused. Joshi said police have registered a case against the accused under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 363 (kidnapping), 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. He said the accused was arrested on Monday and produced in the local court from where he was sent to jail. The minor was sent for a medical examination and the probe of the incident has been handed over to Rakhi Dhoni, a sub-inspector, added Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-kidnapping-and-raping-8-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-s-rudrapur-101637588087926.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Politics over power damaging consumer interests||Electricity shortages this summer in Punjab forced activities to come to stand still at homes, in commercial and industrial establishments. It is the responsibility of the distribution licensee, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), to make arrangements for providing round the clock electricity to consumers as per Sections 42(1) and 43(1) of the Electricity Act, 2003. Does the white paper tabled by the government in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha serve the twin purpose of providing cheaper and uninterrupted power to consumers? Realistic planning and not politics in matters related to electricity shall achieve these objectives. Narrative around costly power A sustained narrative has been created in public domain that power is costly in Punjab, and that, the prime reason for the high cost is due to costly power purchase from the three private sector thermal plants in the state. However, the data for FY 2019-20 released by the Power Finance Corporation of the Government of India reveals otherwise. The per unit cost of power including own generation for Punjab is ₹4.33 compared to ₹4.79 in Haryana, ₹4.81 in Rajasthan, ₹5.19 in Uttar Pradesh, and ₹5.56 in Delhi. The PSPCL has stated the same in its petition to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission for this year’s tariff order. Also, the PSPCL has stated that the average cost of supply (ACOS) to consumers in Punjab is the lowest among its neighbours. The ACOS for Punjab is ₹6.66 per unit compared to ₹6.89 in Haryana, ₹8.04 in Rajasthan, ₹7.35 in UP and ₹6.98 in Delhi. Fixed charges for surrendered powerIt has also been argued that only private thermal plants are being paid fixed charges for surrendered power (power not purchased) and this is making power costly. However, to the contrary, the PSPCL paid a total of ₹1,366 crore for FY 2020-21 as fixed charges for surrendered power, which included ₹841 crore to the three private sector thermal plants in the state, ₹400 crore to the central sector plants and ₹124 crore for other plants. Importantly, the PSPCL has incurred similar expenditure of about ₹500 crore on its own thermal plants. The narrative built up around costly power, therefore, belies these facts and the real reasons for costly power lie elsewhere. What the white paper says The white paper essentially says that the peak demand projections were hugely inflated and this resulted in addition to generation capacity of around 4,000MW, more than what was actually required. Estimates by some quarters have quoted additional requirement of only 2,000MW. If the argument put forth in the white paper is to be accepted that excess capacity had been installed, then, why was the PSPCL facing shortage of around 1,700MW this summer that led it to impose long power cuts? Moreover, power cuts were forced when only one unit of 660MW out of the 1,980MW Talwandi Sabo plant failed. Imagine, what would have been the situation, had there been an outage of 2,000MW! Purchase of power from the grid exchange made at rates as high as ₹15 per unit this summer would even go higher in case Punjab faces further shortages. Regarding the issue of making power cheaper, the government has introduced a bill for referring the agreements to Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission for redetermination of tariff. Interestingly, the regulator, having fixed the tariff earlier as per Section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003, will reassess its own orders. Will power become cheaper? The white paper has failed to pinpoint the real reason for costly power in the state and that is due to total privatisation of generation in Punjab, a policy pursued by successive governments. The share of the state’s thermal energy in the total energy of the state has gone down from 46% to a mere 3% and it is the lowest in the country. The white paper neither acknowledges this folly nor contains any proposal for correcting the same. Thus, power purchase is likely to remain costly in Punjab. The cheaper and good quality coal from the state’s captive Pachhwara coal mine shall be made available to the private thermal plants unless these plants are acquired by the state. This shall create fertile ground for exploitation of the state’s assets by the private companies. bhupinder4103@gmail.com The writer is a retired deputy chief engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and convener of Power Sector Reforms Forum||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politics-over-power-damaging-consumer-interests-101637587846730.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Ad agency owner booked for using RSS chief’s photo sans permission||MEERUT The owner of an advertising agency has been booked for allegedly using RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s photo on its hoardings for political purpose without seeking permission, said police.A case has been registered against Satyaprakash Reshu, owner of advertising agency, on the complaint of district Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Surendra Singh and investigation into the case is underway, said Kuldeep Singh, CO, city area in Muzaffarnagar. Singh lodged a complaint against Satyaprakash at the Civil Lines police station on Saturday, alleging that the advertising company has been using Bhagwat’s photo on its hoardings without permission, which is spreading a wrong message about the organization in the society. Speaking to HT over the issue, Satyaprakash said he admires RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat as his “source of inspiration.” The ad agency owner stated that after some research, he found that 40% people don’t cast their votes in elections and hence he displayed suggestions on hoardings how people could be encouraged to vote. “The hoardings I displayed across the state carry photo of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat,” he said, claiming that he has nothing to do with politics.Satyaprakash claimed that he had a dialogue with regional and district level RSS leaders after some of them objected to the RSS chief’s photo on the hoardings. “I had withdrawan Bhagwat’s photo from all hoardings,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ad-agency-owner-booked-for-using-rss-chief-s-photo-sans-permission-101637585926680.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP believes in ‘sabka saath’, others do politics for vote bank: Nadda||GORAKHPUR Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Monday hit out at opposition parties, saying that the BJP runs on cultural nationalism and democratic values while the other parties function on dynasty and vote-bank politics.“We should be proud that we are members of a party, which has democracy at its core. It is the part where an ordinary worker coming from an ordinary family becomes the chief minister of the state and a worker like me becomes the president of the party,” he said addressing the BJP booth president sammelan (convention) in Gorakhpur. “The BJP runs on cultural nationalism. Other political parties run on dynasty. We have the ideology of ‘Sabka Saath’ and those people (Opposition parties) do politics only for vote bank,” he stated.Nadda exhorted booth presidents to once again put in all efforts for the victory of the saffron party, just like they did in 2014, 2019 and 2017 when BJP swept to power with a huge mandate. Attacking the Samajwadi Part y leaders over their statement on Pakistan and its founder Jinnah, Nadda said: “I have neither engaged in divisive politics nor given any statement to divide the society. When the election comes, BJP starts talking about freedom fighters and nationalist leaders from Gandhi to Patel but Opposition starts talking about Pakistan and Jinnah. I ask you (booth level workers) to reach out to people and tell them about these people who divide the society by giving such statements.” Samajwadi Party (SP) MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “The BJP and its top leaders are jittery now with the kind of support Akhilesh Yadav is getting. BJP is sensing defeat in 2022 UP polls and they are making the same old allegations. This won’t work now.” Lauding UP chief minister, Nadda said Yogi Adityanath had put UP on the path of development and Prime Minister also facilitated development funds for UP. “This has become possible because of double engine government,” he emphasised.The BJP president said it was Yogi Adityanath who, as MP, raised the issue of encephalitis in Parliament following which its vaccination, which was available in Japan in early 60s, became available in UP during the period 2006-2008. Inputs from ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-believes-in-sabka-saath-others-do-politics-for-vote-bank-nadda-101637585446598.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC defers hearing on defamation suit against Rahul Gandhi||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the metropolitan magistrate's court to defer the hearing on criminal defamation suit filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party worker against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi beyond December 20.Rahul Gandhi Gandhi had moved the Bombay high court seeking quashing of the criminal complaint filed against him for a statement he allegedly made at an election rally in 2018.A single bench court of Justice SK Shinde passed the order in Gandhi's petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.During an election rally in 2018, Rahul Gandhi took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi to say “chowkidar chor hain” (watchman is the thief), prompting a purported member of the BJP to lodge a complaint of defamation against the Congress leader. Taking cognisance of the complaint, a metropolitan magistrate's court issued the process in the case against Gandhi in 2019.Shrishrimal alleged that Gandhi made a “defamatory statement” against Modi at a rally in Rajasthan in September 2018, leading to the Prime Minister being “trolled” by various news channels and on social media platforms.Earlier in the day, Shrishrimal sought time his advocate to file a reply to Gandhi’s petition. The lawyers representing Rahul Gandhi said he has been directed to appear before the metropolitan magistrate’s court on November 25.Gandhi filed a writ petition before the court, saying the complaint was “frivolous and vexatious” and was motivated by the “sole purpose of complainant’s latent political agenda”.Gandhi further argued in his petition that when the subject matter is a question in the public domain and envisages a raging political debate and there are opinions on both sides, it would not fall under the category of defamation, according to a report at LiveLaw.While adjourning the matter after giving time to the complainant to file a reply, the HC bench ordered that the proceedings before the trial court be deferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rahul-gandhi-defamation-suit-hearing-bombay-high-court-narendra-modi-bjp-101637582770700.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt is only worried about Aryan Khan: BJP MLA Nitesh Rane||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Nitesh Rane on Monday alleged that while the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has been worried about actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, it doesn’t share a similar concern for youngsters of the Maratha community. He alleged that the Maharashtra government hasn’t done anything in the last two years when it came to taking the case of Maratha reservation forward, with no commission formed and no survey conducted yet. Rane told reporters in Thane that no meetings are held to discuss issues of the community and the case for reservation, adding that a village sarpanch would more efficient than chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He said that while Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA and minister Nawab Malik targets Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede every day, similar attention is not given to education and job generation for youngsters in the state. Rane said, “Owing to several mistakes of the chief minister, the Maratha community has failed to get reservation… The MVA government has even failed to maintain reservation in education and jobs for youngsters. The government is concerned about a Bollywood actor’s son rather than youngsters in the community.” Also Read: Led by part-time CM, MVA most corrupt government: Devendra FadnavisRane demanded that the MVA give proof of what it has done to push for reservations for members of the Maratha community and how many meetings were held to discuss the matter. In response to Rane’s remarks, Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said the BJP itself was responsible for the issue surrounding reservation, adding that it had been trivialised by the Fadnavis administration. Sawant said, “The 102nd amendment of the Modi government that nullified the state’s power to identify communities as socially and economically backward for special provisions and the 50% limit on reservations was the reason it was struck down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-is-only-worried-about-aryan-khan-bjp-mla-nitesh-rane-101637584246424.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi recorded over 1,800 dengue cases last week; overall tally crosses 7,100||New Delhi recorded over 1,800 cases of the mosquito-borne infection dengue in the week ending November 20, taking the tally to 7,128, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporations on Monday. This is the highest number of infections the city has reported since 2015 when dengue infected nearly 16,000 people and claimed 60 lives.Of the total cases, 5,591 were recorded in November. The cases of dengue usually start increasing in July after the monsoon showers and peak in October. The number of cases goes down by November when the temperatures start dipping.Officials from the corporations, which are responsible for implementing breeding control measures, say the intermittent, heavy rainfall well into September could be the reason for high cases reported in November as well.The aedes aegypti mosquitoes that transmit dengue breed in clean, stagnant water. The rainfall in the city provides a fertile ground for the mosquito to breed in addition to utensils of water, birdbath, and bamboo plants within households.Also Read: 10 new dengue cases, 1 Covid infection in LudhianaThe disease has killed nine people in the city this year. The toll is just short of the 10 reported in 2016 and 2017 when the city reported over 4,000 cases.The number of cases is high this year, likely due to the government notification mandating all hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, and diagnostic centre to report cases of dengue, malaria, and chikungunya.“Of the total number of cases reported this week, 25-30% of the cases are from the last two months and are only now being reported by healthcare facilities. There has been an increase in reporting since the disease was made notifiable,” an official from the health department said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-recorded-over-1-800-dengue-cases-last-week-overall-tally-crosses-7100-101637583527035.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Wankhede-Malik defamation suit: HC refuses to pass injunction on Maha minister||The Bombay high court on Monday refused to pass a blanket injunction on Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and restrain the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader from posting statements against Narcotics Control Bureau’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family.The high court said Wankhede, being a public officer, could be subjected to such scrutiny, while stating that Malik should conduct sufficient verification of documents before posting them online to ensure that there are no defamatory statements made against his family.A single-bench judge of Madhav Jamdar’s ruling came while hearing a plea filed by Dnyandev Wankhede, father of the NCB's zonal director, seeking interim reliefs against Malik, including an injunction prohibiting him from posting any defamatory content on social media against him and his family. He had also sought damages worth ₹1.25 crore.Also read | Ahead of HC order, Malik's bombshell: ‘What did you do, Sameer Dawood Wankhede?'Further, the court held that the right to privacy of Dnyandeo Wankhede was necessary, even as it said that prima facie Malik's allegations against the senior NCB officer were totally false. Malik has levelled several serious allegations against Wankhede, including extortion attempts and fraudulent use of caste card to get his job. The senior minister's tirade against the NCB officer began soon after Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son was arrested by the federal agency following a raid on a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai's coast in early October.  Also read | After Bombay HC order on Aryan Khan, Nawab Malik steps up attack on NCBWankhede has denied all allegations against him. However, a new team has taken over the NCB's investigation into the drugs bust case, while an internal vigilance probe was also underway. Besides, the Mumbai Police is also investigating into allegations of extortion as levelled by the NCB's independent witness Prabhakar Sail. (With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wankhedemalik-defamation-suit-hc-refuse-to-pass-injunction-on-maha-minister-101637583105856.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Death is not the enemy of life, but a part of it||November has been the month of lights and celebration; the receded pandemic has enabled us to cherish some festivity this year. While Diwali was the showstopper, there were some flickers of Halloween to be seen in the streets around my place. To my surprise, the children who were excited about the burning of Ravana in Ramlila, took equal interest in Halloween celebrations as well. They had masked-up to appear scary, waited to be dark outside to go from home to home with baskets full of chocolates/candies hailing Happy Halloween! I wondered, what makes this generation ‘Z’ and ‘alpha’ so excited about Halloween? Curiously, I asked and a bunch of them replied in chorus, “Bhooton ka din hai, isliye hum bhoot bane hain (It’s the day of ghosts/spirits, therefore we are decked up as ghosts).” But they had no idea about whose spirits they were imitating and what was the celebration for! On asking further about whether they are scared of spirits/ghosts, I got some blended responses, wherein a few of them admitted that they were scared, and therefore visiting only the closest neighbours; others pretended to be bold enough, saying, “Darne ki kya baat hai (There is nothing to be afraid of).” My modest attempt to explain to them that it is the day to honour our dead ancestors went in vain because all their focus was in the exchange of candies and they were absolutely disinterested in any free gyan. After the candy business, they wanted to rush home, perhaps, subconsciously fearing that the bhoot might actually turn up! Nevertheless, this celebration made me introspect that inadvertently these children are contributing in integrating death with life. Halloween celebrations originated from Samhain, the New Year festival of the ancient Celts of Ireland, who celebrated passing into another world through a hell-cave that was believed to be inhabited by Celtic devils and fairies. On the eve of October 31, Samhain was observed, believing that the invisible wall between the living world and the otherworld disappears and devils enter through the cave, marking the beginning of the pastoral new year. In later years, in the Christian tradition, particularly in Mexico, Halloween celebrations got associated with All Spirits’ Day and All Saints’ Day, marked to greet their deceased loved ones believing that they temporarily return to the world of living. The day is celebrated by visiting and decorating the graves, dressing like spirits, taking out musical processions, baking bread with human bones carved on it and eating skull-shaped sugar candies and many such things. It is like our own ‘pitrupaksha’ when we fondly remember our ancestors by feeding the Brahmins, cows and crows. Unlike the modern perception of death that makes it a fearful enemy of life, these festivals remind us that there is a continuum between life and death. The increasing interest of our children in celebrating Halloween is an opportunity for our generation to make death socialisation an integral part of their upbringing and creating a death positive environment at home. Integrating death in life as a normal event will make Halloween celebration much more meaningful than just bhooton ka din (a day of ghosts). veenat333@gmail.com The writer is an assistant professor of sociology at Post-Graduate Government College for Girls, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-is-not-the-enemy-of-life-but-a-part-of-it-101637582986186.html
22-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet expansion: Here’s the full list of portfolios||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday allotted portfolios, a day after expanding the council of ministers on Sunday when as many as 15 Congress MLAs took the oath of office. While 11 assumed the post of cabinet ministers, four were sworn in as ministers of state.Among crucial portfolios, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has retained home, finance, and IT and communication departments and BD Kalla has been given charge of education and art and culture. Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked from the Rajasthan cabinet last year, got the tourism portfolio once again.Also read | Rajasthan cabinet rejig: CM Gehlot retains home, finance, Kalla gets edu and artHere's a full list of portfolios allotted to ministers in the Rajasthan cabinet:Cabinet minister with portfolios:1) Ashok Gehlot - Finance, taxation, home and Justice, IT & communication2) Dr BD Kalla - Education, Arts, Literature, Culture & ASI3) Shanti Dhariwal - Local self-development, Urban development and housing, legal consultancy office, parliamentary affairs4) Parsadilal Meena- Medical and health, medical health and services (ESI), excise5) Lal Chand Kataria - Agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries6) Pramod Bhaya - Mines and petroleum, gaupalan7) Uday Lal Anjana - Co-operative8) Pratap Singh Khachariawas - Food and civil supplies, consumer affairs9) Saleh Mohammad - Minority affairs, waqf10) Hemaram Chaudhary - Forest, environment and climate change11) Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya - Winter resources, IGNP, water resource planning department12) Mahesh Joshi - PHED, groundwater13) Ramlal Jat - Revenue14) Ramesh Meena - Panchayati Raj and rural development15) Vidhvendra Singh - Tourism, civil aviation16) Mamta Bhupesh Bairwa - Women and child welfare, child empowerment, planning17) Bhajan Lal Jatav - PWD18) Tika Ram Jully - Social justice and empowerment and jail19) Govind Ram Meghwal - Disaster management and relief, statistics, policy planning20) Shakuntala Rawat - Industry, state enterprisesMinisters of state with portfolios:1) Arjun Singh Bamania - Tribal area development, groundwater2) Ashok Chandna- Sports and youth affairs, policy planning3) Bhanwar Singh Bhatti - Power (IC), water resources, IGNP4) Rajendra Singh Yadav - Higher education, Planning (manpower), home and justice5) Dr Subhash Garg - Technical education, Ayurveda and Indian medicines, minority affairs6) Sukhram Bishnoi- Labour, revenue7) Brijendra Ola - Transport and road safety8) Muralilal Meena - Agriculture marketing, tourism, civil aviation9) Rajendra Singh Gudha - Home guard and civil defence10) Zahinda Khan - Science and technology, education||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cabinet-expansion-here-s-the-full-list-of-portfolios-101637582424182.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi dengue cases set a new record as tally crosses 7,100||More than 7,100 people in the Capital have been infected by the dengue virus, with 5,600 cases recorded in November alone, according to a civic report released on Monday.Delhi recorded a cumulative of 5,277 dengue cases on November 15, making it the highest number of infections recorded in the city in a year since 2015. The Capital recorded at least 1,850 fresh cases last week but no deaths were reported due to the vector-borne disease.The civic report showed that 7,128 dengue cases were reported until November 20.Delhi recorded 4,431 cases of dengue in 2016, 4,726 in 2017, 2,798 in 2018, 2,036 in 2019 and 1,072 cases in 2020, the report also showed.There were a large number of people who contracted dengue in the city in 2015 when the number of cases crossed 10,600 in October making it the worst dengue outbreak since 1996.Doctors and health department officials said that Delhi will see a downward trend in dengue cases as temperatures dip due to the oncoming winter season. A health official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which is also the nodal agency for data collection related to the vector-borne disease, told HT on Sunday that there is a dip in breeding metrics and mosquito density.“The anopheles and Aedes aegypti mosquitoes prefer temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius. Once the temperature drops to about 20°C, they become less active in the open and cannot function at temperatures below 10°C,” the official said.Hospitals have also said that dengue cases have dropped over the past week-and-a-half. A doctor from the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi told HT that the number of dengue patients admitted in the hospital has come down from 70-80 patients three weeks ago to less than 10 now.Health experts have, however, asked people to look out for stagnant water in their vicinity for mosquito breeding and take other precautions against dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dengue-cases-set-a-new-record-as-tally-crosses-7100-101637582006751.html
22-11-2021||Other||‘May think about it’: Athawale hints at possibility of Centre mull over MSP law||Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Monday appealed to the farmers to end their movement and go back to their homes because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken a historic decision to withdraw the three agri laws. The process to repeal three laws will be completed in the coming session of Parliament starting from November 29.Athawale is the president of the Republic Party of India (Athawale), an ally of the BJP.He said that government will hold a dialogue with farmers regarding their demand for law on MSP and thereafter may positively think over it.Athawale was addressing a press conference in Varanasi. He said that the government brought the three agri laws in the interest of the farmers. The government held 12 rounds of dialogue with the farmers and tried to convince them that the agri laws were in their interest and the amendments the farmers want would be made in the laws.Athawale said during the dialogues, the farmers were told that if the laws were withdrawn, it would create a problem for the government to decide in future and Parliament would face problems in making new laws in future. Whenever new law will be made, there might be a movement against it by some people if they didn’t like it but the farmers were adamant on their demand to withdraw the laws. In view of their demands, PM Modi announced to withdraw three laws.“The farmers should end their movement and go back to their homes because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken a historic decision to withdraw the three agri laws on November 19,” said Athawale. He said that the farmers should vacate the borders.Asked about the government’s stand on farmers demand to make a law on MSP, Athawale said, “the government will hold a dialogue with the farmers regarding the matter (law on MSP) and thereafter may positively think about it.”Athawale said that he will contest assembly elections in UP in alliance with the BJP. His party RPI will contest at least 10 seats.He said that the opposition parties deliberately hold such discussion that the BJP government may change the Constitution to give a jolt to Dalit reservation. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati hold such talks. This is a false allegation by the opposition parties. There is no threat to the right of reservation of Dalits (Scheduled Castes). The right of reservation of Dalits is fully safe in the BJP government.Athawale said, “I want to ask from BSP chief Mayawati if the BJP is a party which wants to change the Constitution, then how come a BSP chief became the CM of Uttar Pradesh thrice with the support of the BJP?”Athawale said that the BJP is fully protecting the right of the reservation for Dalits. PM Modi is protecting the Constitution, therefore, I am with PM Modi.Athahwale said that his party, the Republic Party of India (Athawale), will expand in UP and take back its base from the Bahujan Samaj Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/may-think-about-it-athawale-hints-at-possibility-of-centre-mull-over-msp-law-101637582027802.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Kejriwal promises ₹1,000/month each for women||To woo women voters, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that if voted to power, the AAP will disburse ₹1,000 per month to all women above 18 years. Also read: Cold wave conditions likely in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan over next two daysAddressing a gathering of women AAP volunteers in Moga, Kejriwal promised women drawing pension will also be benefitted with the additional incentive of ₹1,000. “This scheme will be a unique initiative in India that is aimed at women empowerment. All womenfolk in a family above 18 will be eligible for the monthly grant. The amount may be small but there is something being extended to the women,” said Kejriwal. Kejriwal began his two-day visit to Punjab from Moga this afternoon. In his 15-minute address with a handpicked audience at a resort in Moga, Kejriwal said women of Punjab had a significant contribution in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. Urges women to become opinion builders He urged women to become opinion builders in support of the AAP to give Punjab a new lease of life in governance and inclusive welfare. “Punjab farmers took a lead in the protest and it was the women who played an important role in building pressure on the Union government to announce a rollback of the contentious laws. Now you (women) should motivate your family members to vote for the AAP to emulate the governance model of Delhi in Punjab,” said Kejriwal. Hitting out at the Punjab government, Kejriwal said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has given protection to sand and transport mafia and not done anything to break the cartel. “Punjab has a naqli (fake) Kejriwal who simply lifts election promises made by the AAP but fails to perform. Channi’s announcement to electricity subscribers has failed to take off,” he said. Kejriwal said the party has a well-drafted economic blueprint to roll out welfare schemes in Punjab through transparent governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-kejriwal-promises-1-000-month-each-for-women-101637580046184.html
22-11-2021||Other||Bihar journalist critically injured after being shot at||After a week when Madhubani based journalist Buddhi Nath Jha, who worked in a news portal, was killed, a journalist identified as 30-year-old Balram Kumar was shot at Geetwas market under Raniganj police station of Bihar’s Araria district on Sunday late evening, officials said. The victim, a small businessman working in a news portal in Araria, is battling for his life at a private hospital in Purnia.Locals later caught the accused and handed him over to police after thrashing him. He is under treatment at Araria district hospital in police custody.Araria sub-divisional police officer Pushkar Kumar said, “The incident is related to personal enmity and police are investigating the matter from all angles including a possible love affair.”The accused allegedly had an affair with the close relative of the victim and when the scribe resisted, the accused Suman Kumar Varnwal, a resident of Batouna village under Raniganj police station in Araria, shot the former in the market.According to the reports, the victim had also lodged a complaint at Raniganj police station two months ago after the accused threatened to kill him. Even later, he was threatened on Facebook.District president of Araria journalist association Amarendra Kumar has demanded stern action against the accused. “The attack is indicative of the fact that journalists are not safe and secure,” he said and added the association would hand over a petition to the district administration for the safety of the scribes.Meanwhile, the doctors treating the injured journalist said his condition is still critical. “We are trying our best to save his life,” they said.A week ago, a journalist working in a news portal in Madhubani district was killed and his body was later recovered from a farm field.Meanwhile, the leader of opposition Tejaswi Yadav in a tweet condemned the attacks on journalists in Bihar. Taking a dig at the Bihar government he said if the journalists dare call it a jungle raj they would be punished by this or that pretext.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-journalist-critically-injured-after-being-shot-at-101637578546629.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Pune 5th cleanest city in India, but how much of that is reflected on the ground?||Pune jumped 10 spots to be ranked India’s fifth cleanest city in the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’, results of which were declared on Saturday (November 20). If the citizens are satisfied with the results and want their city to further move upward next year, it might be a good idea to begin by downloading a government mobile phone application.The survey’s findings are based on more than 25 parameters divided into three sections. Some of the key indicators are segregation, processing and disposal of garbage, and sustainable sanitation. Besides this, a crucial parameter that influence rankings is citizen engagement. Since 2016 when the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’ was launched, feedback by citizens appears to be driving cleanliness rankings more than municipal claims and independent verifications.The parameters of cleanliness chosen for the survey seem adequate and its assessment that Swachh Bharat Mission is succeeding in making urban India cleaner might be correct, the on-ground situation may contradict a bit as the methodology used to rank cities appears flawed. The methodology can certainly point in the direction of whether the overall situation has improved or not, the problem arises when political parties ruling the municipal corporations engage their workers to generate positive feedback. Another issue is it relies on declarations made by municipalities concerning the management of solid waste, community and public toilets and efforts undertaken to raise awareness and effective engagement of sanitation works.For Pune, the overall score has been 4,900.94 with 1,540 points out of 1,800 coming from the citizen voice category. The city has received a three-star rating in garbage management with 2,258 points out of 2,400 in trash processing.Pune with an approximate population of over five million is among the largest cities in India geographically. Recently, 23 villages on the outskirt were made part of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, taking its area to 520 square kilometresAfter the inclusion of 23 villages in December 2020, the city’s daily garbage generation went up by 300 tonnes, reaching a little over 2,100 tonnes. If garbage lifting is a problem in some areas, processing it also is an issue many are complaining about. As reported by Hindustan Times in October, at least ten thermal composting plants in the city are non-functional for the past five years. The civic body has decided to recover ₹9.71 crore from a private firm for the non-functioning of these plants.On one hand, garbage is not being processed at 100 per cent capacity, there are many areas where trash is seen lying unattended. Warje, for instance on the Pune-Bengaluru highway, can be a case in point. Despite several complaints by locals, garbage is often seen dumped at the roadside. To dispose it off in their own way, people burn it, adding pollution to already deteriorating air quality.For cleanliness ranking, assessments by field officers to see the situation on garbage disposal is mandatory. They should visit the areas where garbage is lying so that civic bodies can be pointed to improve the situation, as a result of which rankings will reflect the on-ground status.Adar Poonawalla Clean City initiative by the Serum Institute has already pledged ₹100 crores towards solid waste management and sanitation initiatives under which e-toilets with five years of maintenance are being installed at 100 different public places across Pune city. As a commendable move, the PMC on its part started mobile toilets ‘Ti toilet’ project to address the shortage of women toilets in busy public places in the city areas. These toilets are designed by modifying Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses which are not in use for commuting purposes.However, the civic body has received complaints of misuse of toilets, lack of maintenance and some not being in use.Earlier this year when Pune was tagged the second-best among 49 cities in the country considered on the “Ease of Living Index” drawn by the central government, not many in the city took it seriously as the overall quality of life in Pune has been declining over the years.For any survey, if the methodology is flawed, people’s trust in it may diminish. For Swachh Survekshan, the credibility of the survey will receive a boost if some of the issues pointed here can be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-pune-5th-cleanest-city-in-india-but-how-much-it-reflects-on-ground-101637577766325.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi lifts ban on construction work as air quality improves marginally||Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said a ban on construction and demolition activities has been lifted as the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) dropped to the “poor” category. He added that the ban was rescinded to ensure there is no further inconvenience to labourers. Rai said strict vigilance through 585 monitoring teams will continue across the city. He added any private or government construction site will be immediately shut if it is found violating any of the 14-point anti-pollution guidelines issued last month.“We will issue notices later, but construction work will be immediately halted and a penalty will be imposed on the spot, if any construction site, public or private, is found not adhering to the 14-point guidelines. The ban has been removed as air quality is already improving and the labour force was starting to face inconvenience,” said Rai.Also Read: Delhi’s min temperature likely to be 10 degrees Celsius, air quality ‘very poor’Rai said the guidelines, which include installation of windbreakers, sprinkling of water and the use of anti-smog guns at sites with an area of over 20,000 square metres, needed to be strictly followed. He added the AQI was 431 (severe) at Anand Vihar at 10 am on Sunday but dropped to 329 (very poor) at 10 am on Monday. Similarly, at Ashok Vihar, the AQI dropped from 394 at 10 am on Sunday to 309 at 10 am on Monday.“Bawana showed an improvement of 69 points in the last 24 hours, Mundka 80, Narela 86 points and Okhla-Phase 2 (AQI) dropped by around 140 points, from 397 to 283 at 10 am this morning. In a lot of places, the AQI is dropping below 300...”In an order issued late on Sunday, Delhi’s environment department extended the ban on the entry of trucks into Delhi till November 26. Government offices, barring those involved in essential activities, were allowed work-from-home till November 26. The ban on physical classes at schools, colleges and educational institutes will continue till further orders. The government advised private offices to continue to try and allow work-from-home for their employees till November 26.Rai on Monday said they were contemplating allowing CNG trucks into Delhi ahead of a review meeting of all government departments on November 24. “Based on the air quality and the forecast ahead, we will look into allowing CNG trucks into Delhi. Similarly, we may extend or remove other existing bans, depending on the situation.”He referred to a recent analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), which found the contribution of Delhi’s local sources of pollution to be just 31% between October 24 and November 8. Rai said out of Delhi’s contribution, nearly half came from vehicles. He added the government was taking initiatives to encourage the use of public transport. Rai said while 1,000 CNG buses were hired on rent, the capacity of existing cluster buses and the Delhi metro have been increased.“CSE’s analysis shows that out of Delhi’s local sources, vehicles contribute nearly half of the total load. To reduce this, we had approached the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) to increase the standing capacity in the metro and DTC buses. This has now been approved and while 17 people can now stand per bus, 30 people can now stand in each metro coach. Earlier, people were only allowed to sit,” he said. Rai asked people to also utilise the new buses that had been hired to boost public transport capacity.“The buses will have the words ‘Paryavaran Bus Sewa’ written on them and they will function like any other existing bus service. We request the general public to avoid using their own vehicles and to travel using these public transport services.”Rai said Industries found using unapproved fuel will be shut down. He added the traffic police and the transport department have so far cracked down on around 4,000 individuals for not having valid pollution certificates (PUC).“The crackdown on 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles is still continuing, along with a PUC check. We have also increased the capacity of water sprinkling, with around 500 tankers in use. At Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots, the fire brigade is spraying water so that dust pollution can be controlled there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lifts-ban-on-construction-work-as-air-quality-improves-marginally-101637573805523.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections on Dec 24, result on Dec 27||Elections to the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh will be held on December 24 and the result will be declared on December 27. Also read: Chandigarh MC polls: Ticket allocation, change in ward dynamics major challenges before Congress“Nominations will be filed from November 27 to December 4 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 9,” state election commissioner SK Srivastav said at a press conference in Chandigarh on Monday. He said with this, the model code of conduct has come into force. The electoral process will be completed by December 30. Chandigarh has a total of 6.3 lakh voters, comprising 3.3 lakh male, 2.99 lakh female and 17 third gender. The number of polling booths has been increased from 474 to 694. Voting will be conducted from 7.30am to 5pm on December 24. Campaigning can be held from 10am to 7pm and it will end 72 hours before polling day. Special arrangements will be made for Covid-19 patients. They will be able to vote in the last one hour of voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-on-dec-24-result-on-dec-27-101637569965333.html
22-11-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru struggles as heavy rains lash city||Multiple agencies are carrying out operations to pump out water in several localities of Bengaluru after heavy rains lashed India’s tech capital on Sunday night.“In Yelahanka, due to heavy downpours over two to three hours, there has been around 138mm of rain,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body, told a Kannada news channel on Monday.Yelahanka is about 15km from Bengaluru city and is close to the international airport.Bengaluru continues to be at the receiving end of nature’s wrath as the downpour continues to cripple the city of over 12 million residents.Bengaluru has received 364% more rains from November 1 until 5.30pm on November 21 as it has so far recorded 195mm of rain – way higher than the normal rain of 42mm for the month of November.At least 227 homes have been completely damaged and another 187 are partially damaged, according to data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority.Around 92km of roads have been damaged in Bengaluru urban district, data shows.Rains continue to pound Karnataka and several other parts of the country as a depression over the Bay of Bengal affected multiple regions of India.Also Read: All K’taka ministers to go to rain-hit districts, oversee relief work: CM BommaiA total of 24 people lost their lives in November alone, data shows, while nearly 200 animals have also died due to the heavy rains.Several low-lying regions of the city have been badly impacted.In Yelahanka, the lake overflowed, flooding basements, damaging cars, disrupting electricity, and hampering rescue operations.Gupta said localities near the lake have been badly impacted and that the BBMP will conduct an enquiry and punish those responsible for not taking adequate precautions.The chief commissioner said there were no large storm water drains on the outskirts of the city, which was adding to the outflow of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-struggles-as-heavy-rains-lash-city-101637569605333.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Lalu Prasad to appear before Patna CBI court in fodder scam case||Rashtriya Janata Dal national president Lalu Prasad, currently on bail after completing half of his sentence in a fodder scam case, is likely to appear before the special CBI court in Patna on Tuesday in a case of fraudulent withdrawal of funds from treasuries in Banka and Bhagalpur districts between 1993 and 1996, when he was the chief minister of Bihar. According to the FIR, Lalu cleared the forged bills amounting to ₹47 lakh as state finance minister despite the sanctioned budget for purchasing veterinary medicines being just ₹1 lakh. On November 16, the court of the special CBI judge-cum-ADJ XII, Prajesh Kumar, ordered Lalu among three accused, including Nagendra Pathak and Prakash Kumar Lal, to physically appear before it on November 23 after only 16 of the 28 accused appeared before the court . It also directed CBI to clarify how many accused had died and how many were still alive. The Banka-Bhagalpur treasury withdrawal is the only fodder scam case under trial in Bihar as five others were registered in Jharkhand. Lalu Prasad, former CM Jagannath Mishra, former animal husbandry department minister Vidya Sagar Nishad, former member of legislative assembly (MLA) Jagdish Sharma, R K Rana, retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officials Beck Julius, Phoolchand Singh, Adhip Chandra Chaudhary and Mahesh Prasad, the then animal husbandry department regional director F Kerketa and O P Diwakar of Bhagalpur and Banka divisions, respectively, were among the 28 accused the court took cognisance of in the Banka-Bhagalpur treasury case. Also Read: RCD pins hope on Gadkari meet to clear proposal for 2 more expressways in BiharIn March 2012, the special CBI court framed charges against the 28 accused, who were then put on trial. While death of some of the accused including Jagannath Mishra and Vidya Sagar Nishad was public knowledge, the court has asked CBI to submit a status report on all of them.Sunil Kumar, CBI’s counsel said that Lalu along with Jagannath Mishra had physically appeared before the court last on June 6, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-prasad-to-appear-before-patna-cbi-court-in-fodder-scam-case-101637568646526.html
22-11-2021||Patna||Bihar ministers involved in liquor trade, alleges Tejashwi Yadav||Political turmoil continues in Bihar over the liquor ban with Leader of Opposition and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav putting allegation against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and said that the state ministers are involved in the liquor trade.Speaking to the media, the RJD leader said, "The people who sit near Chief Minister Nitish Kumar are engaged in this work. How many MLAs, how many ministers are engaged in this, everyone knows who they are. From whom is the government asking? Why don't you go and investigate yourself?"His remark came in response to the allegations of Janata Dal United (JDU) in which the ministers had said that if Tejashwi Yadav has any evidence of liquor being sold in Bihar then he should provide it to the government.The Leader of the opposition further alleged that the liquor ban in Bihar is just a hoax."Nitish government should tell how many new liquor shops were opened in Bihar after 2005, and how many liquor shops were there in Bihar before 2005. What major action has been taken so far, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar should tell. Home delivery is being done everywhere. The questions that Nitish Kumar is asking me, he should tell what action is being taken now," he added.Further, taking a jibe at the JD(U)'s special programmes on November 24 on the occasion of completing 16 years of Nitish Kumar's good governance, Yadav said, "In which case has Bihar become unmatched? In unemployment, in liquor ban, in crime rate, education is ruined in that case, dogs roaming in hospital, not a single factory was set up in 15 years, there is flood and drought in Bihar," he said.While talking on the repeal of three farm laws, he said, "The fight for Minimum Support Prices (MSP) continues. The central government should focus on that. The farmers are asking for guarantee on MSP and government should provide that. I also appeal to the Centre to provide 25 lakhs to the kin of the farmers who died during the protest and a job. The Bihar government should also give ₹5 lakhs to the farmer's family."A total of 32 people died in the state after consuming spurious liquor, the recent death being reported from Muzaffarpur.Last week, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar directed the state officials to take strict action against the government employees caught in an instance related to violation of liquor ban, informed Chaitanya Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Home).Nitish Kumar had also said that the crime rate in Bihar has come down after the liquor ban and he stands against liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ministers-involved-in-liquor-trade-alleges-tejashwi-yadav-101637567710600.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Smog and Covid-19: Double whammy for NCR birders||New DelhiIt’s that time of the year again when colourful winged visitors from all around the world make their way to wetlands in Delhi-NCR. But this birding season, bird enthusiasts are unsure about stepping out, as the air quality in the region plays spoilsport amid the ongoing pandemic.“There has been a lot of rain this year, so, all the areas around Bharatpur and NCR are full. Bird walks are happening, but the smog is a big deterrent. People, especially youngsters, are refraining from stepping out,” informs Nikhil Devasar, a Delhi-based birder, who conducts walks every Sunday.‘Birds avoiding water with toxic foam’The lack of clean spots has led to a dip in the number of birds the usually popular spots. “People are not going much to places such as Yamuna Biodiversity Park due to smog and toxic foam in the river. Birds are also avoiding these habitats. Surajpur wetlands are also not seeing much footfall,” says birder Rohit Sharma.Low visibilityEven if the feathered creatures do show up amid the pollution, birders fear the smog would make it impossible to spot any rare species. Kanwarjit Singh, a veteran birder from the Capital says, “The smog is a big issue for birders, who travel long distances to a good spot and then find that visibility is poor due to smog! Smog also affects the health of birders.”To this, Prerna Jain, an avid bird photographer and a bird enthusiast, adds, “The smog is so bad, I couldn’t get a clear picture and photography is all about light. Birds are moving objects and if light is bad, you will have no good images.”Singh reports that among the most interesting recent sightings in NCR were the Indian Grassbird, Brown Hawk Owl, Pallid Harrier, Tickell’s Thrush, Orange-headed Thrush, Gray-headed Lapwing and the Gray Plover.The Covid-19 impactThe fear of Covid-19 has also been discouraging people to go for bird walks in groups. Contrasting how birdwatching has changed since the pandemic struck, Singh tells us,“Earlier, birders would start going out in the field even in September to look for early migrant arrivals. But after the pandemic, birding activities have started late this year and birders have been going out in small groups of two-three. Only now in November, bigger groups of five to ten people have started birding together. In past years, there used to be much larger groups of twenty to thirty persons.”The situation aheadThe annual Delhi Winter Bird Count, set to take place on November 28, will have a large number of birders go out in small teams to known hotspots to take a count of different bird species which can be spotted. The count helps in monitoring the migration patterns of birds.With the Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram — which opened in early November — placing restrictions on the number of people allowed inside, birders are thronging to places such as Bhondsi, Mangar Bani, Najafgarh Jheel, Dhanauri wetlands, Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Mandothi and Aravalli Biodiversity Park. “Right now, people are concerned about the smog, but those who want to turn up, turn up anyway. Yes, for a month or so this time, the turnout has been lower. In the cities, the air is really bad, but on the outskirts it’s better,” says Abhishek Gulshan, a Delhi-based nature and wildlife enthusiast and birder.Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smog-and-covid-19-double-whammy-for-ncr-birders-101637567985183.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||SC grants interim protection from arrest to ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court on Monday granted interim protection to former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in six FIRs (first information reports) lodged against him in Maharashtra. The court asked to join the investigation.The order came after Singh’s lawyer informed the apex court that the former top police officer does not want to abscond, but has gone into hiding as he faced a threat to his life from the Mumbai Police.Stating that his threat came from the Mumbai Police, Singh’s lawyer said he is living in the country itself and sought the apex court’s protection. His lawyer also informed the court that he is ready to appear before the CBI within 48 hours.The court agreed to hear Singh's plea and issued a notice to the Maharashtra government and the CBI and posted the matter for hearing on December 6.Supreme Court agrees to hear Param Bir Singh's plea and issues notice to Maharashtra government and CBI & posts the matter for hearing on December 6.Last week, the apex court had asked his lawyer to inform about Singh's whereabouts when he sought protection.On Wednesday, a magistrate court in Bombay declared Singh a "proclaimed offender" in an extortion case registered against him and some other police officers in the city.Singh had last attended his office in May this year after which he went on leave. The state police had told the Bombay High Court last month that his whereabouts were not known.The crime branch of Mumbai Police, which is probing the extortion case, had sought the proclamation against him, saying that the IPS officer could not be traced even after the issuance of a non-bailable warrant.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101637566217139.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Owaisi-BJP like chacha-bhatija’: Rakesh Tikait on AIMIM chief's ‘repeal CAA-NRC’ demand||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday while slamming AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi over his remarks on repealing CAA-NRC said Owaisi shares the bond of uncle and nephew with Bharatiya Janata Party and can ask directly from BJP whatever he wants.Also Read | AIMIM chief Owaisi demands repeal of CAA"Owaisi and BJP share a bond of 'chacha-bhatija' (uncle-nephew). He should not talk about this on TV, he can just ask directly, said Tikait.Tikait's statement came during 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' organized by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions, in Lucknow on Monday."Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked. Make a law on MSP. Take care of 750 farmers who died. There is a policy coming for milk also, we are against that too, there is also a seed law. Want to discuss all this," Tikait added.Post the announcement of withdrawal of three farm laws by centre, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Owaisi on Sunday asked the Centre to withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and said that if it is not repealed then protestors will "take to streets in Uttar Pradesh and make another Shaheen Bagh"."I demand from the Bharatiya Janata Party government to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)," Owaisi said while addressing a public meeting in Barabunki."If the government makes the law on the National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) then we will hit the streets again, we will make Shaheen bagh here too. I myself would come here," he had said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/owaisibjp-like-chacha-bhatija-rakesh-tikait-on-aimim-chief-s-repeal-caa-nrc-demand-101637565745473.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: NCB mulls moving Supreme Court against Bombay HC bail to Aryan Khan||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is reportedly deliberating if it wants to file an appeal before the Supreme Court against the bail of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case. The federal agency is currently seeking legal opinion following the recent order of Bombay high court in the case.NCB officers are deliberating if they want to file an appeal against Aryan Khan's bail, before the Supreme Court. NCB is taking a legal opinion now after examining the Bombay High Court bail order: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)Aryan, who was arrested with Arbaaz Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha by the NCB following a raid on the Goa-bound Cordelia Cruise ship on October 2, was granted bail by the high court on October 28 on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each..In its detailed 14-page order, the high court said there is "hardly any positive evidence" against Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun for the offence of conspiracy under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.The court further said Aryan was not in possession of drugs while the other two had "small quantities" of drugs under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-ncb-mulls-move-supreme-court-against-bombay-hc-bail-to-aryan-khan-101637563895423.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtang Pass closed for tourists as frozen stretches make driving risky||Rohtang Pass at 13,050 feet in Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh has been closed for tourists and day-trippers in view of the slippery roads due to freezing conditions at the high altitude. Also read: Drones figure in DGP conference for manning troubled bordersKullu deputy commissioner Ashutosh Garg said that from Monday, tourist vehicles headed for Rohtang will not be allowed beyond Kothi village, 13km ahead of Manali town, till April-end when the weather improves. Only army, police and emergency service vehicles are permitted through Atal Tunnel during this period. The administration has shut the portal for online permits. The tourist influx to Rohtang Pass increased after the region received snowfall around Diwali on November 4. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) cautioned that due to the dipping temperature and adverse weather conditions, water was freezing at many places on the road leading to Rohtang Pass and it should be closed for civilian vehicles. Once the only gateway to the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti, Rohtang Pass is strategically important today as it is a vital link to the forward areas of Ladakh. Atal Tunnel was opened in October 2020 and provides all-weather connectivity to Lahaul and Spiti besides cutting down the distance to Leh by 46km and drive time by around seven hours. The 9-km tunnel is also the world’s longest tunnel above 10,000-feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtang-pass-closed-for-tourists-as-frozen-stretches-make-driving-risky-101637561984803.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||'Great presence of mind': Female constable swiftly reacts to save life of local train commuter in Mumbai||An alert female constable saved a commuter who fell off a moving local train at Byculla station on Sunday evening. Sharing the video of the incident on social media, Central Railway said the 40-year-old woman lost her balance as she was trying to board a moving local train from platform number one of the Byculla railway station.The on-duty woman constable, Sapna Golkar, can be seen in the video keeping a close watch on people boarding the train. Reacting swiftly to the situation, she rushed towards the train and saved the commuter who put her life in danger while trying to board a moving train. In the 52-second-long CCTV footage, others present at the platform can also be seen rushing to the scene. The woman then sits on the bench where the constable was sitting initially.Central Railway commended Golkar for saving the woman’s life.While some on social media lauded the constable for saving a life, many stressed the necessity of closed-door coaches in local trains.“Top class display of alertness and proactiveness shown by the officer,” wrote a Twitter user. “Great presence of mind,” wrote another.This is not the first time when passengers have put their lives at risk by trying to board moving trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/female-constable-swiftly-reacts-to-save-life-of-local-train-commuter-in-mumbai-101637557712547.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||From today, Western Railway introduces 8 more AC local trains in Mumbai||From Monday, the Western Railway (WR) will introduce eight more air-conditioned local train services in Mumbai, taking the total number to 20."Eight new AC services will be introduced for the convenience of commuters in the suburban section of the WR, taking the number of AC services to 20," an official said.According to a PTI report, of these eight new services, four each are in the "Up" and "Down" direction and two of the trains will operate during peak hours.The official one of the new trains will ply between Virar and Churchgate station, two between Borivali and Churchgate and one between Goregaon and Churchgate.Meanwhile, in the "Down" direction, one local will operate between Churchgate and Nallasopara, two between Churchgate and Borivali and one between Churchgate and Goregaon, he added.In the Central Railway (CR) section, a total of 26 AC local train services are operating at present. Of these 26 services, 16 are operating on the Trans-Harbour line between Thane-Vashi-Panvel and the remaining 10 are on the mainline.According to a November 8 report in Hindustan Times, the Union railways ministry might bring down the fares and introduce more amenities to increase passengers in the AC local trains.In the near future, the ministry may convert all local trains into air-conditioned compartments.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-today-western-railway-introduces-8-more-ac-local-trains-in-mumbai-101637552510711.html
22-11-2021||Kolkata||Schools in Bengal’s plains and hills follow different timings starting today||With an eye on the Covid-19 situation, schools in the plains and hilly areas of West Bengal will follow different timings starting Monday, while physical classes will be held on alternate days. Schools in the plains, including in cities such as Kolkata, will be held from 10.50am to 4.30pm. In the hilly areas, including Darjeeling and Kalimpong, classes will be held from 9.30am to 3pm. Also, classes 10 and 12 will be held three days a week, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while classes 9 and 11 will be held twice a week, on Tuesdays and Thursdays. An education department official said, “There will be no academic classes on Saturdays. Schools have been instructed to organise feedback sessions, generate awareness and hold orientation camps for guardians every Saturday. A senior education officer from the education department will attend the feedback sessions to take stock of the evolving situation.”Also Read: WBBSE modifies schedule for physical classes of affiliated schools. Timings hereSchools in West Bengal reopened after 20 months on November 16. They were shut in March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Schools reopened last February with classes 9 to 12, but had to be shut again due to the assembly elections and the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, schools began to be held following staggered timings. While students of classes 9 and 11 were asked to attend classes from 10am to 3.30pm, classes 10 and 12 were held from 11am to 4.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/schools-in-bengal-s-plains-and-hills-follow-different-timings-starting-today-101637556165014.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to begin 2-day visit to Punjab, will make big announcements in Moga||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday begin his two-day visit to Punjab, where assembly elections are due next year.On the first day of the visit, Kejriwal will launch 'Mission Punjab' from Moga under which he will visit several places in the state in the next one month and announce the AAP's initiatives for the people.AAP's Punjab unit president Bhagwat Mann had earlier said that Kejriwal is expected to make big announcements for Punjabis during the event in Moga on Monday.Also Read| Jolt to Punjab Congress: Gurdaspur leader Raman Bahl to join AAP"The AAP has started a campaign from cities to villages ahead of the elections and is preparing a comprehensive roadmap for the state by holding various meetings. This will be later added to the party’s election manifesto,” Mann said in the statementMeanwhile, the AAP said on Sunday that Kejriwal will also announce an initiative for women.Post the Moga event, the AAP chief will participate in a party meeting in Ludhiana. On Tuesday, he will attend another party event and address a press conference in Amritsar.Kejriwal undertook a visit to Punjab last month too, during which he held an interaction with farmers and businessmen in Mansa and Bathinda districts.In the 2017 assembly elections, AAP emerged as the second-largest party in Punjab as it won 20 out of the total 117 seats.This year, it is facing competition from the ruling Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The AAP has already released its first list of 10 candidates for the elections, just days after sitting MLA from Bathinda Rural (reserved), Rupinder Kaur Ruby joined the Congress on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-begin-2-day-visit-to-punjab-will-make-big-announcements-in-moga-101637539830411.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Abohar makes strides in Swachh Survekshan, sheds tag of India’s 3rd dirtiest city||Abohar in Punjab’s Fazilka district made a big leap in the national cleanliness standards from India’s 3rd dirtiest city in 2020 to an impressive 105th position (previous 380th) in this year’s edition of the Swachh Survekshan in the category of cities with a population between 1 and 10 lakh. Abohar was adjudged the 5th cleanest city in Punjab against the last year’s 14th.The urban local body, having a population of 1.45 lakh according to the 2011 Census, is the hometown of erstwhile Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar who represented the Abohar assembly segment for three consecutive terms from 2002 to 2017. Municipal commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish, a 2015-batch IAS officer, was tasked to improve sanitation levels of the city after it fared badly in the 2020 national cleanliness audit. Kaplish gives credit to two sanitary inspectors — Jaspal Singh and Kartar Singh —for leading inspection and execution works. After assuming office in June last year, Kaplish almost doubled the strength of sanitary workers from 130 to over 250. The construction of several public toilets also got the city the open defecation free (ODF+) tag. “The MC bought 25 tippers equipped with global positioning system (GPS) and 75 rickshaws for garbage collection from every nook and corner of the city. We got constructed 200 compost pits where municipal waste was processed. CCTV cameras were installed at the worksites for accountability and it worked well,” said Kaplish.Also, the city residents volunteered for regular cleanliness drives as part of the ‘Apna Abohar Apni Abha’, a campaign started by former district Youth Congress president and Sunil’s nephew Sandeep Jakhar. “Overflowing sewers and heaps of garbage were common in the city till a few months ago. There has been a sea change,” said Hardeep Singh, a city resident.Kaplish said the civic body got sewerage cleaned with super-suction machines. “Over 40% sewer lines were choked and dismal work by a private contractor in laying underground water and lateral lines led to battered roads. It was almost impossible to maintain even basic hygienic standards. But we took all measures to expedite underground pipe-laying works,” he added.Abohar mayor Vimal Tathai said the municipal administration took it as a challenge and resolved to get rid of the tag of being the 3rd filthiest city in the country.“There is no denying the fact that cleanliness infrastructure was in a shambles till last year. The town was deprived of development activities since Independence. We took the criticism in a positive manner and worked sincerely. Collective efforts yielded results,” said Tathai, who took over as the first mayor of Abohar in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/abohar-makes-strides-in-swachh-survekshan-sheds-tag-of-india-s-3rd-dirtiest-city-101637529402017.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa passes away at 77||Renowned Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, popularly known as ‘Lambi hek di malika’ (the queen of singing in an extended breath), passed away on Sunday. Bawa, who lived with her family in Amritsar, was admitted to a hospital on Saturday evening after she fell sick, her family members said. She was 77. Bawa was not keeping well after the death of her daughter Lachi Bawa, also a Punjabi folk singer, due to cancer in February last year, it is learnt. She was known for her long ‘hek’ (singing in single breath) that she could hold for record 45 seconds. She was one of the artistes known for singing ‘Jugni’ after Alam Lohar and was the first Punjabi female singer to sing on Doordarshan. Bawa was born in 1944 to Uttam Singh and Ram Kaur at Kothe village in Gurdaspur district. Her mother died when she was just two. At that time, girls were not allowed to study or go out without the elders’ permission. But Bawa, who aspired to be a teacher, passed JBT test and became the first woman from her area to be a teacher.She was married to Kirpal Bawa, a Punjabi folk singer from Dera Baba Nanak, and the couple had three daughters, of whom Lachi and Galori Bawa became singers. Her famous songs are ‘Liade chamba, lavan ghare de kol’, ‘Kaharo doli na chayao…. mera babal aya ni’ among others. ‘Ghorian’ (Punjab songs sung on a man’s wedding) and ‘Mirza’ (a song portraying saga of Mirza-Sahiba), sung by her, also became popular.Bawa was conferred with the state award by the Punjab government in 1991, Sangeet Puraskar by the Punjab Natak Akademi, the national Devi Ahilya Award by the Madhya Pradesh government in 2002 and the Shiromani Gayika Award by the Punjabi language department in 2008. She was also awarded the ‘Rashtrapati Puraskar’ by the Bharti Sangeet Natak Akademi.Noted Punjabi writer and poet Gurbhajan Gill, who was close to the Bawa family, said, “She taught in a school near our village Aliwal. She was known in my area as a radio singer at the time. No singer could compete her in holding her breath for so long. She was among few singers who kept Punjabi folk music alive.” Folklore Research Academy president Ramesh Yadav said, “She sang on the tune of ‘alghoza’, a paired woodwind instrument used by folk musicians in Punjab and surrounding areas apart from other traditional instruments.” Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi condoled the singer’s death. Channi tweeted, “Shocked and saddened to hear the news of Gurmeet Bawa Ji’s demise. Her contribution to Punjabi folk music is indelible (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-folk-singer-gurmeet-bawa-passes-away-at-77-101637529160920.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hyderpora killings: Mehbooba Mufti demands judicial probe, apology from JK LG Manoj Sinha||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday held a protest outside Raj Bhawan demanding a judicial probe into Hyderpora killings, return of the body of Jammu resident Amir Magray and an apology by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to the families of slain civilians.Mufti along with her supporters led a protest rally from her residence at Gupkar to one of the outer gates of Raj Bhawan where the police stopped them.The protesters were seeking an apology from J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and raising slogans like “stop innocent killings” and “return Amir’s body”.“Nobody is allowed to talk or even protest here. All the doors are closed. And there is tyranny and cruelty here for which they will have to apologise to the kin of Mudasir Gul, Altaf Bhat and Amir Magray,” Mehbooba told the media outside the closed gate.“They were innocent and allegations were levelled against them that they were (overground workers of militants) or hybrid militants. Those allegations will have to be taken back and a judicial inquiry must be called to give stern punishment to those involved,” she said.The J&K government led by Sinha has ordered a magisterial probe after questions were raised over an anti-militancy operation by security forces in which four people, including three residents of J&K and a suspected Pakistani, were killed at a shopping complex in Hyderpora on November 15. The police claimed that one was a Pakistani militant namely Bilal Bhai, alias Hyder, another was a so-called ‘hybrid’ militant (Amir Magray) and another two (Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul) were civilians who allegedly helped militants and were killed in cross-firing. However, the families of the three local residents, Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul of Srinagar and Amir Magray of Ramban in Jammu, have contested the police claims.Bhat was the owner of the complex while Gul, a doctor and a businessman, had rented rooms there. Magray used to work at the complex.The families of Bhat and Gul claimed that they were killed in cold blood and were used as human shields while Magray’s father said he and his son was a true nationalist.After public backlash, the administration on Thursday exhumed the bodies of two civilians - Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul. The police had buried all the four at Handwara, some 70 km away, without the presence of their families. On Saturday, reports quoted Manoj Sinha saying in Jammu that things will be clearer in the coming days and that those found guilty in the Hyderpora encounter “won’t be spared”.Mehbooba said the victims’ families must be compensated and LG Manoj Sinha should apologise personally to the families.She also raised questions over the whole operation of the security forces. “They were saying that four people were there of which one was a militant. We doubt this,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hyderpora-killings-mehbooba-mufti-demands-judicial-probe-apology-from-jk-lg-manoj-sinha-101637528861064.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||In Himachal, Covid cases dip but fatality rate still a concern||Even as the Covid-19 infections have started to fall in Himachal Pradesh, the high death rate is keeping the health authorities on tenterhooks. This month till November 20, the state has recorded a total of 2,238 Covid infections and 74 fatalities. The case fatality ratio in these 20 days was 3.30%, highest since June when the second surge ebbed after wreaking havoc in the state. The overall death count in the state has reached 3,812 after 74 people have succumbed to the contagion during this period, as compared to total 78 deaths reported in the state in October. The highest number of deaths in a single month (1,643) was reported in May this year in the state, while the lowest 42 deaths were reported in July. The November spike The state recorded a sudden rise in the death since from November 6-15 when 53 people died due to the infection in just 10 days. Average five fatalities were reported in the state every day. The highest single tally was on November 11 when a total of 10 fatalities were reported in the state, the highest after nearly four months, while nine people died on November 13. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur admits that the death tally has suddenly gone up in the state. “We have daily infections, but the death rate has gone up which is quite worrisome,” he said. Thakur said it was observed that most of the deaths were reported among home-isolated patients, patients with comorbidities and aged persons. He said respective district authorities have been directed to stay in touch with patients in home isolation. “Apart from it, the authorities have been told to immediately shift the patients to the nearest hospital if their condition deteriorates in home isolation,” he said, adding that the situation has again been improving. Kangra, Hamirpur report maximum deaths In November, Kangra, Hamirpur and Mandi districts have reported the maximum deaths. Kangra was the worst hit with a total of 39 fatalities reported within 20 days and was followed by 13 fatalities in Hamirpur and 11 in Mandi. Five deaths each were reported in Shimla and Una and one in Kinnaur. The prime reason for the high fatalities in Kangra and Hamirpur was the high number of infections recorded in these two districts during this period. Kangra recorded 814 cases of Covid infections while Hamirpur followed with 442 cases. Positivity rate declines, still above national average Even as the positivity rate in the state declined from 1.7% to 1.3% within a week, it is still above the national average of 0.9%. Kangra and Hamirpur are the worst hit districts with their positivity rate above 2% in last one week. The situation has improved a bit in Mandi, Bilaspur and Una. With the positivity rate of 1.7 per cent over the past one week, the Covid situation in the state still remains worrisome with Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi districts being the worst affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-himachal-covid-cases-dip-but-fatality-rate-still-a-concern-101637528805694.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Dreams of his youth||he life of an Instagram influencer isn’t easy. “I’ll have to continuously update my personality in what I wear and how I look. I’ll always have to convey happiness to my followers even if my heart is broken.”These stresses seem sweet and desirable as long as Syed Areeb doesn’t actually become a social media influencer, the singular ambition propelling him onwards. This evening, though, he is overwhelmed by the struggles ahead. Feeling utterly alone like a shipwrecked mariner marooned on an island, he misses the presence of a person who can nudge him to right directions. Sometimes he has an urgent urge to escape from Old Delhi where he has spent all his 26 years. In fact, this evening he is literally standing on the boundary where Old Delhi meets the new city—he is walking about the remnants of the Walled City’s historic walls, near Dilli Gate.The young man just doesn’t feel any connect with his “congested” neighbourhood. “Many of the boys of my age in Pahari Bhojla have no focus… they pass their time in the streets.” After graduating from Delhi University, Mr Areeb could have taken over his father’s garment shop in Daryaganj. Instead, he earned himself a diploma in “travel tourism and airport handling” from YMCA, and soon afterwards started commuting daily to Delhi airport’s international terminal as a customer service agent—he is among the few young men in the vicinity to have a day job outside the Mughal-era quarter. (It turned out to be lucky for him to skip the family shop, which closed down with the coronavirus-triggered lockdown last year.)Transcending the workday routine of handing out boarding passes in the departure terminal, Mr Areeb devotes the rest of his waking hours to his ardent dream. “Naturally,” he started with his grooming. Speaking fluent English was never a problem because “mumma papa sent me to an English medium public school in south Delhi” Muscles were honed in strenuous workouts at a Pataudi House gym. In 2018, he co-launched a YouTube channel on “fashion and fitness”. That project fizzled out in eight months. Later, he met a few more disappointments.Shaking his head, Mr Areeb argues “so far I’ve been successful from the perspective of my mother. She’s happy I have a job. But the things I want remain unrealised.” He picks up a dry dust-covered leaf from the ground, silently wrestles with his thoughts while crushing the leaf with his finger. “But I’m still in my twenties. I’m focused. I’ll continue to work hard… Mumma asks me to keep hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-dreams-of-his-youth-101637528683589.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal farmers demand adequate fertiliser supply||The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS), Himachal Pradesh, has expressed concern over the shortage of fertilisers in the state and urged the government to take steps to make fertilisers available in every district of the state according to the demand of farmers.It also demanded to roll back the hike in the prices of fertilisers.Shimla former mayor and KSS convener Sanjay Chauhan said there was an acute shortage of fertiliser especially DAP and NPK in all districts of the state.He said the government had miserably failed to provide fertiliser in the state.“If the supply has been sent in some areas, it is not more than 100-150 bags whereas the demand is for thousands of bags in every block,” said Chauhan.He said this time of the year is crucial as it is the sowing season of rabi crops and also fertilising apple trees.He alleged that the government had abolished subsidies and other assistance given in the agriculture and horticulture sectors by implementing pro-corporate, open market and open trade policies and farmers have been rendered helpless and were being exploited by big corporates.He alleged that farmers were being forced to buy expensive fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and other input material from the open market.The input cost is increasing gradually while the farmers are not getting the remunerable prices for their produce.The KSS urged the government to ensure adequate supply of fertilisers to the farmers and gardeners in every block across the state and also restore subsidy on fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and other input material through the departments of agriculture and horticulture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-farmers-demand-adequate-fertiliser-supply-101637528742116.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Marathoner runs from Jammu and Kashmir to Kanyakumari to raise funds for disabled soldiers||Marathoner Kumar Ajwani, 61, is running from Jammu and Kashmir to Kanyakumari, covering a total distance of 4,444 km over the period of 77 days, to spread awareness and raise funds for disabled soldiers. He will also be attempting to create a world record, specifically an Indian at this age.The sainik welfare department, J&K, accorded a warm welcome to him at Sainik Bhawan here on Sunday. The director, Rajya Sainik Board, appreciated the efforts of Kumar and his team for running for such a noble cause. He was flagged off from the office of the Rajya Sainik Board by the director, Brig Gurmeet Singh Shan in the presence of a large no of ex-servicemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/marathoner-runs-from-jammu-and-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-to-raise-funds-for-disabled-soldiers-101637528741054.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 165 Covid cases; Srinagar highest with 45 infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 165 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 142 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 23 infections. Kashmir reported the highest 45 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 35 cases in the northern district of Baramulla and 18 in Ganderbal. Jammu district in Jammu division saw the highest 14 cases. As many as 14 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 575 followed by Baramulla and Ganderbal districts with 342 and 168 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 160 with active positive cases reaching 1,701.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 39,887 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.617 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,29,206 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.16%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,35,368 and the death toll has reached 4,461.The officials said that 49,178 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,150 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 860 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-165-covid-cases-srinagar-highest-with-45-infections-101637528681257.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Illegal trade on social media: Rajasthan man held for selling weapons online||The special cell of Delhi Police has busted a criminal operation, and arrested a 38-year-old man who was selling illegal weapons over social media platforms, officers privy to the investigation said on Sunday.Police identified the arrested accused as Hitesh Rajput, a resident of Jodhpur in Rajasthan. The investigators said that the police, during monitoring of suspected handles on social media, found that some people were posting about sale of illegal arms. The posts had photographs and videos of weapons, and ammunition, they said.One of the prominent groups among these was running the name of Lawrence Bishnoi, a notorious gangster in Delhi. The police registered a case under the relevant sections of the law and launched a formal investigation.“During investigation, profiles related to Lawrence Bishnoi were searched, and it was found that Rajput has a separate profile, and was also offering illegal firearms for sale. Through technical surveillance, the active profiles of Rajput were identified and contacted him, evincing interest in buying the weapons. The police team finalized a deal with the accused after he shared videos of the weapons. An undisclosed sum of money was also deposited in a bank account as advance,” said DCP (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) KPS Malhotra.The remaining amout, it was decided, will be given by hand. Rajput was apprehended on Tuesday from Manesar in Haryana when he came to receive the remaining amount.DCP Malhotra said Rajput is suspected to have connections with anti-national elements in Pakistan. Rajput has a criminal record, and he has served timein various jails of Rajasthan, the DCP said.He added that Rajput also used to dupe local criminals of money by fixing fraud deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/illegal-trade-on-social-media-rajasthan-man-held-for-selling-weapons-online-101637528491740.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Complaint against higher education director over ‘violation’ of Disability Act||The Umang Foundation, a charitable trust working for the disabled, has lodged a complaint with the state disability commissioner against the director of higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma, on the ban imposed on the recruitment of persons with visual and hearing impairment having disabilities more than 60% for the post of school lecturer.Umang chairman and an expert member of the State Advisory Board on Disability Ajai Srivastava said if remedial measures were not taken immediately, he would move the high court to seek relief for disabled persons as the education department was blatantly defying the ruling of the Supreme Court.He said the director of higher education issued an advertisement, especially for the disabled, last week to recruit school lecturers in various subjects.“It was clearly mentioned in the advertisement that the persons having visual and hearing disability more than 60% were not eligible to apply,” he said.The decision of the director of higher education is against the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016, and blatantly violates a judgment of the Supreme Court delivered in February this year, he said.In the judgment, the apex court had ruled that irrespective of the degree of disability, visually and hearing-impaired persons can even become judges in courts. The court had said such disabled people should be provided technical assistance so that they could work efficiently, said Srivastava.He said the Central government had identified the posts of IAS, IFS, IRS, professor, bank officers, and all categories of school teachers, including lecturer, for the purpose of recruitment of the disabled, “but the mental bankruptcy of the education department is playing with the future of the disabled persons.”He questioned when the persons with blindness or deafness can occupy the highest government posts in the country, why they are being debarred to become school lecturers.He has urged the state disability commissioner to take cognisance of his complaint against the director of education and order an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-complaint-against-higher-education-director-over-violation-of-disability-act-101637528620755.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Shimla falls to 102nd spot; Dharamshala improves ranking||The Queen of Hills has slipped 37 ranks in the Swachh Survekshan ranking, a pan India cleanliness survey. It plunged to 102 from the 65th rank last year.The urban development ministry has spent crores of rupees to improve the cleanliness in Shimla town. The municipal corporation in Shimla purchased two sweeping trucks worth ₹1.5 crore to clean the streets of the town. This year, 4,320 cities participated in the survey as opposed to 4,242 last year. The dropped ranking is said to be because of a lack of citizen voice and feedback coupled with an improper system of waste management. Shimla secured 927.24 marks out of 1,800 in citizen voice and feedback, down from last year’s score of 1,049.52. Its total score was 1,624 out of 2,400 in the service-level programme, besides 700 out of 1,800 in on the garbage-free city and ODF plus certificate parameters. The state capital got just a one-star rating out of five for the garbage-free city in the last two categories.” This year we could not do better. Garbage collection was hit adversely due to the pandemic. We will do our best to improve the door-to-door collection. Despite the odds, garbage collectors did a laudable job during the difficult times,” said Shimla municipal corporation mayor Satya Kaundal.Shimla town had secured 26 ranks in the survey in 2016. The decline started after the BJP assumed power in the state.The government is engaging part-time workers on outsourcing, said CPI (M) leader and former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan.“On one hand, these privatisation policies are putting more burden on the public by collecting more taxes and on the other hand these workers are also being exploited by contractors and companies,” he said.However, the state’s second-biggest town, Dharamshala, improved its ranking among the small-town category from 624 ranks to 134 this year. Mandi town scored 155 ranking in the zonal ranking. In 2020, Mandi town was ranked 172. Tea town Palampur improved its ranking from 533 to 214 this year. Tourist destination Narkanda known for its ski slopes improved its ranking from 633 to 276 in the small-town category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-shimla-falls-to-102nd-spot-dharamshala-improves-ranking-101637528562221.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 51 fresh Covid cases; Kangra reports highest 30 cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 51 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking its cumulative tally to 2,26,395 while the death toll reached 3,814 after two patients died of the infection.The highest 30 cases were reported in Kangra, 10 in Shimla, six in Una, three in Solan and one each in Hamirpur and Kullu.The active case count came down to 910 while the recoveries have reached 2,21,654 after 146 people recuperated.In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,662 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,824 cases and Shimla 27,724 cases.TRACKERTotal Cases: 2,26,395Recoveries: 2,21,654Deaths: 3,814Active: 910||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-51-fresh-covid-cases-kangra-reports-highest-30-cases-101637528500524.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||DU’s new UG session kicks off today||Delhi University (DU) will start the academic session for the new batch of undergraduate students on Monday completely online, and ahead of the initiation of classes, most colleges will hold orientation or induction sessions for the new students to acquaint them with their respective institutions and departments.The university has also issued anti-ragging guidelines and asked colleges to form anti-ragging and disciplinary committees.According to the anti-ragging guidelines, the heads of institutions need to identify a disciplinary resource person (DRP) in each college, hostel, hall, department and their contact details must be shared with the proctor’s office. The guidelines also suggest sealed complaint boxes be placed in front of the principal’s office where students can register complaints.Amid the pandemic, DU stopped all in-person classes in March last year. While on-campus practical sessions were resumed in February, the sessions were called off in March amid the onset of the fourth Covid-19 wave in Delhi. In September, the varsity allowed final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to return to campus for practical and laboratory work, as part of its plan to reopen in a phased manner.Manoj Sinha, secretary of the DU Principals’ Association and head of Aryabhatta College, said students from different courses will be inducted throughout Monday. Students of four courses each will be inducted every hour starting from 9am. Sinha said that the orientation will see teachers from various departments apprising students about anti-ragging guidelines, add-on courses, and ECA societies among other things.“Various departments will be holding interaction with students for an hour. All teachers will interact with students and make them aware of the workings of the department through presentations or videos... Teachers will also get a chance to know about students’ hobbies and interests,” said Sinha.The college also provides laptops to help students who might not have devices for online classes.Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said that incoming students will be able to log in and take part in the orientation through their college dashboards. All departments will be conducting different induction sessions for students depending on the student strength at the college. For courses that have a high student strength, the college has provided zoom links for the online induction whereas courses having a lower strength will be able to hold the orientation through other available mechanisms.Some colleges are also planning to share recorded videos with students as part of the induction ceremony due to technical challenges. The websites of both Dyal Singh and Dyal Singh (Evening) College remained inaccessible until Sunday, due to which a number of students were seen making enquiries about the orientation session.Pawan Kumar Sharma, college principal of Dyal Singh (Evening) College, said that the college’s website had not been working for the past three days and the issue was yet to get resolved. “The website is down for the past two-three days. The university has assured me that the website will be fixed soon. We are still waiting for the website to start running but if the issue is not resolved, we will share individual links with students,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-new-ug-session-kicks-off-today-101637528131485.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||20-year-old man held for raping minor girl||A 20-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl in southwest Delhi’s Bindapur area.Police said the suspect has been identified as a resident of Uttam Nagar.A case was registered on Wednesday under Section 363 (punishment for kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the parents of a 15-year-old girl.Investigator said an initial probe revealed that the victim arrived at her home on Wednesday and stated that while she was near Matiala road, one person offered to drop her near her home on his motorcycle.When she sat on the bike, the man took her to a coaching centre, introduced himself as a police officer and promised her a job as a teacher in the institute. After that, the police said, he took her to a park and allegedly raped her.While examining footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area, police spotted another person along with the motorcycle, and he was arrested on Saturday from the Rajapuri area, police officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20yearold-man-held-for-raping-minor-girl-101637527674755.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pakhowal road ROB, RUB project set to miss December deadline too||The much-touted project for establishing a railway overbridge (ROB) and two railway underbridges (RUB) on Pakhowal road railway crossing is set to miss its December deadline too. Started under the Smart City Mission last year, with an aim to bring relief from traffic jams witnessed on the Pakhowal road railway crossing due to the movement of at least 18 trains every day, the ₹120-crore project is moving at a snail’s pace.Under the project, a ROB, 839.83 metres in length, is being constructed for the movement of traffic from Pakhowal road canal bridge towards the Hero Bakery Chowk. Besides, a RUB, 1,018.46 metres in length, is being constructed from the Pakhowal road canal bridge up to the Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar, and another RUB, 458.20 metres in length, is being constructed from Hero Bakery Chowk up to the Pakhowal Road canal bridge.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had initially claimed that the RUB from Pakhowal road to Sarabha Nagar will be complete by July 2021. Due to pending works, the deadline was extended to August 31 and then further to Diwali and finally till December 31. But as per officials, the project will need at least two to three months more for completion.Work on the RUB had remained suspended for the last three weeks after a chamber of the main sewer line, crossing from the site, got damaged and the area turned into a cesspool. As claimed by municipal corporation (MC) officials, the chamber was damaged by a railway contractor during digging. The chamber has been repaired and work resumed on November 17. But MC officials say the railways is to be blamed for the slow pace of the project. An MC official on the condition of anonymity said, “Around 70% of the MC’s work has been completed, while the bridge on the railway portion is pending. Around 90% of the work of RUB, leading towards Sarabha Nagar, has been completed and it will be opened for traffic by the end of December. But the deadline to complete the entire project will be extended for 2-3 months.”Deputy chief engineer, Northern railways, Williamjit Singh, said the work of the railways is going on as per the schedule and there is no major delay. The railway portions will be completed by December 31. Official speakThe project is being monitored on a regular basis and a notice has been issued to the contractor over the slow pace of work. The railways had delayed the project in the past. The work is now being expedited and the contractor has been directed to meet the December 31 deadline.Pardeep Sabharwal, MC commissionerThe slow pace of work at the site is due to lack of coordination between the MC and railways. Most of the projects being taken up under the smart city mission have been marred by slow pace of work and it is a serious issue. I will take up the matter in the next meeting of the board of directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited. Sanjay Goel, director, Ludhiana Smart City LimitedEven after the Malhar road project was delayed, the Pakhowal road project has been allotted to the same contractor. The officials have also failed to keep a check on the quality. The MC officials should impose penalties on the contractor as per the terms and conditions of the contract, as the delay is resulting in harassment of the residents. Kapil Arora, president, Council of Engineers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakhowal-road-rob-rub-project-set-to-miss-december-deadline-too-101637526881245.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU Youth Festival: Khalsa College for Women lifts overall trophy in Zone-B events||The five-day Panjab University Youth and Heritage Festival (Zone B), hosted by Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana, concluded amidst cultural bonanza.Khalsa College for Women bagged the overall trophy with 20 first, 16 second and 13 third prizes. Ramgarhia Girls College and Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, clinched the first and second runners-up positions respectively.Shabad gayan, geet, gazal, folk orchestra, mime, debates, kali, kavishri, classical and group dances, etc were the highlights of the day.Sarabjeet Kaur Sohal, principal of University College, Chunni Kalan, Fatehgarh Sahib and president of Punjab Sahit Academy, Chandigarh, presided over the function as the chief guest.Iqbal Mahal, a writer and radio- TV presenter, along with Paramjeet Singh Sidhu also known as Pammi Bai, Punjabi singer and song writer were the guests of honour.Sohal said, “The idea behind youth festivals is to provide a platform to the youngsters to hone their creative talent and also to keep them rooted to the rich heritage and culture of Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-youth-festival-khalsa-college-for-women-lifts-overall-trophy-in-zone-b-events-101637526161287.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railways set to resume general coaches in long-route trains soon||Railway passengers will soon be able to travel in unreserved coaches, like the pre-Covid times, as general coaches are set to resume in long-route trains.General coaches had been excluded in long-route trains this year due to fear of Covid spread. Due to this, only passengers with reserved tickets were able to board trains, which caused harassment to those looking to travel for emergencies. Many passengers even took up the matter with the railway authorities complaining of inconvenience in the absence of general coaches.“Since normal and routine railway operations have been restored, including the hot-cooked meals served by the Indian Railways in the trains, railways will soon start the general coaches which will be beneficial for both passengers and will also benefit the railways financially,” said a senior official at Ludhiana railway station.Moreover, passengers will now be able to book the ticket four months before travel time. Amid Covid, the railways had allowed reservations only 30 days before the scheduled travel.“Since it became uncertain about plying trains amid Covid, long reservations were denied to passengers unlike pre-covid time. A passenger could book his/her ticket only a month before his scheduled travel but now since the situation is back to normal, four month pre-booking has commenced,” added the official.Moreover with the increase in the reservation time, the fare of the ticket reservation has been decreased by the railway authorities.“Railways had increased its reservation charges amid pandemic but now passengers will shell out at least ₹20 less on the reservation,” shared an official.Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana said that railways officials are working hard to restore the operations as were before the pandemic had hit the country.“The numbers of the trains were changed as these were converted into special Covid trains. Like Amritsar-Darbanga train number was changed from 04674 to 14674 while it was converted into a special train but now again its previous number has been revoked. We are trying to restore every possible facility for the rail commuters to make their journey happier and comfortable”, stated Kumar.Many people appreciated Railways for resuming its operations, especially the hot-cooked meals.A twitter user appreciating the move wrote, “It is a great step by the railways as the packed food was really expensive”.An official revealed that railways will also offer the packed food to the passengers along with the fresh hot-cooked food.“Railways have incurred huge losses in absence of catering services as only branded packed food was being served so far following which railways couldn’t earn anything. Now, since the railways will again give contracts to its food suppliers and take advance money from them that will add into the revenue for the railways,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railways-set-to-resume-general-coaches-in-long-route-trains-soon-101637525920309.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Five booked for using fake documents to secure bail||The Division number 5 police lodged an FIR against five persons on Saturday, for securing bail for one Suraj Kumar, using fake documents. Kumar was facing charges for stealing and selling material from the shop of his employer.The accused have been identified as Vicky of Bhagwan Das Colony, Neha, Bhag Singh of Salem Tabri, Tajinder Kumar of Dhandhran and Tarlochan Singh of Shiv Mandir. Police have also booked Suraj Kumar for conspiracy.Complainant Gagan Puri lodged an FIR against Suraj and others on March 27, under Section 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Salem Tabri police station. Suraj was arrested by the police and sent to jail on judicial custody.Puri added that four months ago, he came to know that the accused furnished fake documents to bail Suraj out, after which he filed a complaint on August 27.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhpal Singh said, “A case under Section 199 (false statement in a declaration), 205 (false personation), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 465 (forgery), 467(forgery of a valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC has been registered against the accused. The investigation is on to nab the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-five-booked-for-using-fake-documents-to-secure-bail-101637525680282.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||10 new dengue cases, 1 Covid infection in Ludhiana||As many as 10 fresh cases of dengue and one case of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Sunday. A total of 1,698 confirmed dengue cases have been reported in the district, out of which 1,262 are from Ludhiana. Besides, the district has 4,314 suspected cases. There are 15 active Covid cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-new-dengue-cases-1-covid-infection-in-ludhiana-101637525380300.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Medha Patkar visits proposed site of industrial park near Mattewara||Renowned social activist and environmentalist Medha Patkar visited Mattewara area as part of the Sutlej Bachao, Punjab Bachao campaign.Non-governmental organisations (NGOs), under the banner of “Public Action Committee (PAC) for Sutlej and Mattewara, have been campaigning against the plan to create an industrial park near Mattewara. They have also been demanding complete transparency in the Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project.Patkar highlighted the issue of Sutlej pollution via Buddha Nullah and other wastewater drains of industries, which pose a great environmental hazard.Patkar said she, along with various other environment lovers, are working on the protection of Narmada as they consider it their mother, and Sutlej in Punjab deserves the same level of respect and protection as it is also a source of drinking water for millions.She congratulated Punjabis for leading the way in the farm agitation and promised to raise the issue of environment protection of Punjab in the meeting of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) as well.A tour to Mattewara forest was organised by the PAC for her to take a first-hand view of the site of the proposed industrial park near the protected forests.She interacted with the villagers of Sekhowal who are protesting against the plan of their eviction from their farms due to the proposed industrial textile park in the area.Kashmir Singh, a resident of Sekhowal village, said the Dalits in the area fought a long battle for land ownership, from the 1960s to 2014. “Our victory was short-lived as we are again losing this land, this time to the government which plans to bring a modern industrial park,” she said.Kapil Dev, the main petitioner in the NGT case against the proposed Modern Industrial Park, said the state government bulldozed its way by notifying modifications to the Ludhiana Master Plan to allow an industrial park on the river flood plain. This, despite an NGT order to first demarcate the flood plains of Sutlej, which the government has been defying till date, he said.The team also visited the Buddha Nullah near Jamalpur to gauge the level of polluted water discharge from the dyeing industry, and the review the progress of the upcoming sewerage treatment plants. Giani Kewal Singh, ex-jathedar, Damdama Sahib, also welcomed Patkar to Punjab and said, “Guru Nanak is the essence of environmental wisdom. Disrespect for air and water cannot continue for very long without causing serious repercussions to the health of citizens. Political parties should give highest priority to environmental issues in their manifestoes and should clearly spell their understanding of such problems in Punjab and solutions they propose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-medha-patkar-visits-proposed-site-of-industrial-park-near-mattewara-101637525020408.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Over 18 crore land records digitised in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday made 24 modern revenue record rooms functional at 22 district headquarters, besides Chandigarh. About 18.5 crore land records have been digitised in the first phase. An official spokesperson said in the near future, the state government will integrate the digitised land record into the state government website www.jamabandi.nic.in The spokesperson said the land records were kept in files and the record rooms were also not maintained properly. Also, citizens have to go through the cumbersome procedures to obtain copies of their land records by personally visiting the tehsil offices and patwaris time and again. The records were also prone to theft, fire incidents, termite and insect attacks in the absence of proper storage system. They could also be tampered with by mischievous elements, he added. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal said hence it was decided to adopt a system wherein these records are preserved for longer time. Now the land records have been scanned, digitised, indexed and preserved electronically, he said. Simultaneously, in order to preserve the original physical land record, there was a need to maintain them as well. This necessitated the physical modern revenue record rooms which will not only be used for the physical storage of records but also have computerised system for cataloguing, indexing for the process of access and retrieval of these records effectively, as and when required. The spokesperson said that a three-tier verification process was proposed to eliminate the chances of discrepancies in the scanned data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-18-crore-land-records-digitised-in-haryana-101637524900234.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Infant snatched: Ludhiana police seek details of Alto cars registered as taxis||Investigating the kidnapping of a rag-picker’s four-month-old son, police approached the Regional Transport Office and sought details of all Maruti Suzuki Alto cars, being used as taxi. Closed-circuit television cameras installed at the crime spot had revealed that an Alto, bearing a yellow registration plate, had been used in the crime. Police have also contacted local hospitals, nursing homes and doctors to know if any infant was brought to them for treatment of cold, as the kidnapped infant was suffering from cold as told by his mother, Rupa Devi.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Dharmpal Juneja said the car used by the accused was captured on CCTVs installed in the area but its registration number was not clear.“We have asked the transport department to provide details of the owners of Alto cars registered as taxis. Police have also asked the transport department to check if the taxis are attached with online taxi service provider applications,” said the ACP.“The car was captured while fleeing towards Bahadurke road. Police teams are also keeping tabs on Alto cars in surrounding areas,” he added.Posing as Good Samaritans, a car-borne woman and her male aide had kidnapped a rag-picker’s four-month-old son from the Grain Market near Jalandhar Bypass late Friday night. The accused had approached the rag-picker’s family on the pretext of donating woollens and food for the children. An FIR was lodged against unidentified accused at Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infant-snatched-ludhiana-police-seek-details-of-alto-cars-registered-as-taxis-101637524660175.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Murder accused out on bail shot dead in Sonepat||A 31-year-old property dealer, who was out on bail in a murder case, was shot dead allegedly by six persons at Sonepat’s Mohana village bus stand on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Atender alias Chunu of Kilohrad village in Sonepat. The complainant, victim’s mother Sarita, said Atender was working as a property dealer in Gohana. “The incident took place when my son was returning home from Gohana. Six assailants, Dinesh, Sandeep, Oma, Ankit, Sita and Mukesh Kaira opened fire on him. Some passersby rushed him to a public health centre from where he was referred to the medical college in Khanpur Kalan, where he died during treatment,” she added.Ashok Kumar, in-charge of Mohana police station, said the victim had been facing several cases of murder and attempt to murder, and was also named in the Sonepat jail break incident. “He had come out of jail on bail on January 10 last year and working as a property dealer. In most of the previous cases, either he had completed his sentence or was acquitted. We have booked six persons under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act. We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-murder-accused-out-on-bail-shot-dead-in-sonepat-101637524600383.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar attends Neeraj Chopra’s sister wedding in Haryana’s Panipat||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday landed his chopper in Panipat’s Madlauda to attend the wedding of Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra’s sister. The chief minister was accompanied by Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar and other local BJP leaders besides officials of the district administration.The chief minister spent around 20 minutes at the programme and also had an interaction with the 23-year-old javelin thrower and his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-attends-neeraj-chopra-s-sister-wedding-in-haryana-s-panipat-101637524420329.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Minor alleges sodomy in juvenile home, second case in 8 days||Unidentified persons have been booked for allegedly sodomising a juvenile lodged in an observation home in Ludhiana. It is the second such incident that has come to fore in the last eight days.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Arun Aggarwal, superintendent, observation home, Shimlapuri. Aggarwal stated that the 17-year old inmate, who is lodged at observation home, filed a complaint on November 18, alleging that unidentified inmates are sexually assaulting him since May 1 and it continued till October 30. The accused had sodomised him multiple times. However, he does not know the name of the accused.Sub-Inspector Ranjeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have registered a case against 10 juvenile home inmates under Sections 377 (sodomy) of the Indian Penal Code at Shimlapuri police station. Earlier on November 12, the Shimlapuri police lodged an FIR after a 17-year-old inmate had filed a written complaint to him stating that ten other inmates have been sexually exploiting him since November 3. He also alleged that when he resisted, the accused used to thrash him badly.A team of National Child Protection Commission (NCPCR), New Delhi, inspected observation home in Ludhiana. NCPCR registrar Anu Chaudhary, consultants Anshu Sharma and Karishma Buragohin, along with the team, carried out a thorough inspection of the observation home, Shimlapuri, and met the entire staff of the observation home. The team had also interacted with the inmates and heard their problems. During the investigation, the team found some deficiencies in the observation home which were not as per the provisions of the JJ Act 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-minor-alleges-sodomy-in-juvenile-home-second-case-in-8-days-101637524241498.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Clash between two groups leaves one dead in Kaithal||One person was killed and five others sustained injuries in a clash between two groups in Deod Khari village of Kaithal district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place over the construction on a common wall by the victims’ family.As per the police, the deceased has been identified as Ratan Singh, 55, of the same village. One of those injured, Manish Kumar, said the clash took place on Saturday evening when one of the accused, Gulab Singh, indulged in a scuffle with him and later along with Jassu Singh, Mahinder Singh, Om Prakash, Abhishek and others attacked him and his family members with sharp-edged weapons. He said that Ratan sustained a serious injury in the attack and was rushed to a hospital, where doctors referred him to PGIMER in Chandigarh. But he succumbed to his injuries, Kumar added. The other victims have been hospitalised and their condition is stated to be stable. The police said an FIR has been registered under sections 302, 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC and investigation has been started. No arrest has been made so far as the other group has also filed a counter complaint claiming that two people from their group sustained injuries as well. Ratan’s body has been handed over to his family members after postmortem examination, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-clash-between-two-groups-leaves-one-dead-in-kaithal-101637524240272.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air quality in seven Haryana cities continues to remain ‘very poor’||Despite a slight improvement in the AQI, relief eludes people, especially those living in the cities under the National Capital Region (NCR), as the air in most of Haryana cities continues to be polluted. As per the bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality of Faridabad (377), Hisar (372), Gurugram (364), Charkhi Dadri (356), Jind (348), Bahadurgarh (336) and Manesar (310) was categorised as ‘very poor’. AQI of 13 cities, including Rohtak (300), Dharuhera (290), Fatehabad (288), Narnaul (288), Sonepat (271), Kurukshetra (270), Panipat (270), Ballabgarh (264), Kaithal (259), Bhiwani (257), Yamunanagar (229), Ambala (225) and Palwal (224), was flashed as ‘poor’. However, there is a positive change in the air quality in the past couple of days as on Sunday, not even a single city of the state was in ‘severe’ bracket. While Karnal’s air quality has returned to ‘moderate’, Panchkula was the only city of Haryana which had ‘satisfactory’ air quality. As per the CPCB, AQI between 0 to 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 to 100 ‘satisfactory’, and 101 to 200 ‘moderate’, while that between 201 to 300 is classified as ‘poor’, 301 to 400 ‘very poor’ and it crosses over to the ‘severe’ zone at 401.The incidents of stubble burning continue to impact the air quality in the state as 127 fresh farm fires were reported on Saturday, taking their total number to 6,464 this season.As per the Haryana Space Application Centre’s data of the rice-residue burning events from September 15 to November 21, Fatehabad district is on the top with 1,399 active fire locations, followed by Kaithal (1,149), Karnal (950), Jind (826), Kurukshetra (538), Sirsa (421), Ambala (299), Yamunanagar (364), Panipat (220), Sonepat (174), Hisar (169) and Yamunanagar (145).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-quality-in-seven-haryana-cities-continues-to-remain-very-poor-101637524000061.html
22-11-2021||Dehradun||Free pilgrimage for Uttarakhand senior citizens if AAP comes to power: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that if AAP is elected to power in Uttarakhand, it will provide free pilgrimage services for senior citizens of the state just like a similar service provided by the AAP government in Delhi Kejriwal made the announcement during his one-day visit to Haridwar where he also held a road show. The AAP chief said that Uttarakhand is a religious hub and AAP will make it the spiritual capital of the country and people of Uttarakhand need to get free pilgrimage services to various shrines located in the country. “The AAP government in Uttarakhand will provide senior citizens free pilgrimage facilities to Ramjanma Bhoomi in Ayodhya for Hindus, Ajmer Sharif for Muslims and Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage for Sikhs residing in Uttarakhand. Monthly stipend will be provided to unemployed, 80% reservation in jobs will be for locals, one lakh jobs will be provided within 6 months of AAP’s coming to power. Also, to check hill migration a separate migration department will be formed in Uttarakhand,” said Kejriwal. Lashing out at BJP and Congress for hoodwinking the people of the hill state, Kejriwal urged people to vote for AAP in the 2022 assembly polls. He said people will see a huge positive change in development work, time-bound completion of projects, corruption-free governance which the BJP-Congress just claim in poll manifestos but fail to convert them into governance. Interacting with auto rickshaw drivers at a city hotel, the Delhi CM said that in Delhi a major contribution in AAP coming to power thrice is due to the support of auto rickshaw drivers and lower strata of society who have been neglected by political parties. Kejriwal also took an auto ride later, with auto rickshaw drivers, local vendors, shopkeepers, local people, pilgrims and tourists trying to click pictures and interact with the AAP leader. A large number of party activists and local people thronged the roadshow of Kejriwal with people lining up on both sides of the road from Parshu Ram, Old Ranipur tri- intersection, Chandracharya square till Shankar Ashram intersection. On Kejriwal’s visit and the crowd that accompanied him during the roadshow, Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat said that Kejriwal is just making announcements but in reality he should fulfil similar announcements made to people of Delhi. BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari questioned whether the Aam Aadmi Party had any major face in Uttarakhand. “They don’t have party cadre in all the thirteen districts and they make unrealistic claims of contesting in all 70 segments. Will the Delhi CM and deputy Delhi CM be their faces or crowd pullers in Uttarakhand too? It is BJP which will win 60 plus seats, even Congress is nowhere near us forget AAP,” he said This is Kejriwal’s third visit to the hill state this year. During his visit to Nainital district in September, Kejriwal had announced that if AAP is elected to power in the state, it will provide employment in every household of the state (Har Ghar Rozgar) and ₹5000 stipend till the youth don’t get jobs. He had also announced that AAP will provide 1 lakh government jobs within six months of coming to power in the state. On August 17, when Kejriwal had visited the state, he had announced the name of Col Ajay Kothiyal (Retd) as the chief ministerial face of the party for the 2002 assembly polls in the state. He had also announced that AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for Hindus across the world. Earlier on July 11, when Kejriwal had visited the state, he had announced 300 units of free electricity for the people in the state, if AAP is elected to power next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/free-pilgrimage-for-uttarakhand-senior-citizens-if-aap-comes-to-power-kejriwal-101637523700247.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 27 fresh Covid cases, no death||Punjab on Sunday registered 27 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.16%, a medical bulletin of the state government said. No Covid-related death was reported in the state on the day. With this, the state’s total infection tally has reached 602,980 while the number of active cases was 279. Among the fresh cases, maximum 11 were recorded in Fatehgarh Sahib, four each in Jalandhar and Pathankot and two in Hoshiarpur. With 35 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586,117 the bulletin said. Till now 16,584 people have lost their lives due to the virus. As many as 17,142 tests were done and 18,619 vaccine doses were administered on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-27-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101637523580291.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Food deliveryman, 3 aides held for jewellery shop robbery||A month after a jeweller was robbed at gunpoint in his shop on Hambran Road in Ludhiana, police claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of four persons, including a food-delivery executive who frequented the area.The accused have been identified as Manjinder Singh, 19, of Manewal village who works as a food-delivery executive, Gurpreet Singh, 19, Jagdish Singh, 23, of Burj Pawat village in Ludhiana and Ashish Aggarwal, 25, of Galla Kothar Mohalla, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that Manjinder used to deliver food in the area and had often seen the owner of Satguru Jewellers sitting alone in his shop till late at night.“Believing that the owner would be an easy target as he is an elderly person, Manjinder and his aides hatched the conspiracy to rob him,” said the top cop.“On October 19, Manjinder, along with Gurpreet and Makhan, reached the shop on a bike around 9 pm and looted gold and silver ornaments to the tune of ₹7 lakh and ₹3 lakh cash at gunpoint,” he said while adding that separate teams of PAU police station and CIA staff were formed to look into the case.“Manjinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Jagdish Singh were arrested from Hiran village on Chandigarh road when they were going towards Ludhiana in a car. Our teams later recovered a .32 bore pistol, six live cartridges, a toy pistol, a sharp weapon, and the bike used in the crime, besides the car and looted ornaments from their possession,” said the police chief.He added that following the information provided by the trio, police arrested Ashish Kumar for allegedly supplying weapons to them. Police also found that the accused had installed fake number plates on the car.A fifth aide, Makhan Singh of Burj Pawat village, is yet to be arrested. A manhunt has been launched for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-food-deliveryman-3-aides-held-for-jewellery-shop-robbery-101637523400154.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP chief Kejriwal will make a big announcement in Moga today: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will start ‘Mission Punjab’ from Moga with a big announcement on Monday (November 22), said state unit president Bhagwant Mann. In a statement, Mann said that Kejriwal will visit various places in the state in the next one month and announce the party’s programmes for Punjab and its people. He will start the tour with an interaction with women volunteers of the party in Moga. “Kejriwal will also take part in a meeting held by the party in Ludhiana. On Tuesday, he will address a press conference in Amritsar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-chief-kejriwal-will-make-a-big-announcement-in-moga-today-bhagwant-mann-101637523220027.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t leave Patiala seat in 2022 polls due to Sidhu: Amarinder||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has announced that he will contest the upcoming assembly elections from Patiala assembly constituency. Capt Amarinder, who won the seat by 52,407 votes in 2017, stated that he will not leave it due to (his bête noire Navjot Singh) Sidhu. “I will contest from Patiala which is with us for 400 years. I am not going to leave it due to Sidhu,” according to a post put out by the two-time former CM’s team on ‘Punjab Da Captain’ Facebook page quoting him. The veteran leader had resigned as the CM on September 18 following a tussle with Sidhu, four of his ministers and several party MLAs. He then quit the Congress on November 2 and announced his separate party, Punjab Lok Congress. He has won Patiala four times and his wife, Preneet Kaur, also represented the assembly constituency from 2014 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wont-leave-patiala-seat-in-2022-polls-due-to-sidhu-amarinder-101637522980082.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Central govt’s ‘sinister’ design to end MSP, food security, PDS to continue: Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that the Centre’s “sinister” plan to end the minimum support price (MSP) regime, food security for the poor and government procurement and public distribution system (PDS) will continue even after the rollback of the three “black” farm laws. He also said there was no word from the central government on a law to guarantee assured price for crops. Earlier, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had also sought a statutory guarantee for the MSP, stating that they did not trust the central government. The Congress leader’s attack on the Centre came two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three laws that triggered the stir by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh. The protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past one year for repeal of the three laws. Sidhu also said, “Today, as we rejoice in our victory against the Centre’s three black Laws...Our real work has just begun. The Centre’s sinister plan to end MSP, end food security for the poor, end govt procurement and end PDS will continue without the farm laws. It will be now hidden and more dangerous”. In another tweet, he alleged that the Centre’s design to give procurement, storage and retail to private capital was still ongoing. “No word by Centre for MSP legalisation, we are back to June 2020, Small farmers need Punjab Govt’s support to protect them from Corporate take over - Punjab Model is the only way (sic.),” he said. Meanwhile, cabinet minister Pargat Singh hit out at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for lauding the Centre’s decision to roll back the three laws. “Capt Amarinder, a BJP proxy in Punjab as CM, has shown his true colours. The three laws were abolished due to the indomitable will, sacrifice and grit of lakhs of farmers, 700 of whom lost their lives. The ‘maharaja’ instead is paying tribute to his bosses,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-govt-s-sinister-design-to-end-msp-food-security-pds-to-continue-navjot-sidhu-101637522619967.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 missing Chandigarh boys traced to Amritsar Railway Station||Two boys aged 13 and 10 who ran away from home to avoid going to school have been traced to Amritsar railway station. A resident of Manimajra had on the evening of November 19 lodged a complaint with the police stating that his 13-year-old son and his friend aged 10 had left the house at around 11am, but not returned. A kidnapping case had been registered at Manimajra police station. The police started search operations and also shared information of the kids with Railway protection force (RPF) Chandigarh. The children were traced to Amritsar Railway Station by Government Railway police (GRP) at about 6 am on November 20 and were brought back to Chandigarh. The children told the police that their parents forced them for study, but they do not want to do so. After medical examination, both boys were handed over to their parents. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSStudent leader demands martyr status for fallen farmersMembers of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) led by general secretary Rajkaran Singh Baidwan held a candle light march at Sohana Gurdwara on Saturday demanding that the Union government give martyr status to farmers who died during the protest against the farm bills. The members observed two minutes silence and paid tribute to the farmers. Baidwan said that the repealing of the three farm laws is a good step, but it has come very late. Free dental check-up camp held The department of public health dentistry of Sri Sukhmani Dental College organised a free dental check-up and awareness camp on Sunday. A team along with Dr Ramandeep Kaur Sohi examined local residents and informed them about proper brushing techniques and various tips to maintain oral health.UT man held with 250-gm charas A resident of Khuda Ali Sher was arrested with 250-gram charas near the beat box in Sector 27, Chandigarh, during a checking on Saturday evening. The accused has been identified as Shadab, 22. A drugs case has been registered at Sector 26 police station. Man nabbed with stolen bike The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested resident of Sector 52 while riding a stolen motorcycle with fake registration number near the under bridge in Sector 11. The accused has been identified as Sumit Kumar alias Gaini Police said that the motorcycle was registered in Delhi. Later, they found that it had been stolen from Nayagaon.Ex-senator writes to Naidu for reopening PU campusDr Subhash Sharma, state general secretary of the BJP and former senator of Panjab University (PU), has written to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, seeking his intervention for the reopening of campus for all students. Sharma said that unfortunately not all departments have reopened at the varsity and students are suffering due to the apathy of administration. In his letter to Naidu, he said that when the entire country is in “unlock mode”, the reopening of the campus is being delayed.National Pharmacy Week celebratedTo acknowledge the invaluable contributions made by pharmacists and technicians towards patient care in hospitals, outpatient clinics, and other healthcare settings, Aryans College of Pharmacy, Rajpura, organised a series of webinars and competitions during National Pharmacy Week that ended on Sunday. Various activities including poster presentation, debate, quiz and declamation were conducted. Dr Anshu Kataria, chairman, Aryans Group, presided over the event. ‘Obesity can led to comorbid conditions’Dr Gurvinder Singh Jammu, director and surgery department head at Jammu Hospital, Jalandhar, while interacting with media persons, explained why obesity should not be taken lightly. He said obesity is a complex disease that can contribute to the growth of associated comorbid conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, infertility and cancer. Obesity treatment plans aim to limit weight gain, and eventually help patients reach and stay at a healthy weight, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-missing-chandigarh-boys-traced-to-amritsar-railway-station-101637522384045.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Santosh Trophy football tournament: Services blank Himachal 3-0||Services outplayed Himachal Pradesh 3-0 in the first match of the Santosh Trophy North Zone tournament organised by Chandigarh Football Association at the Sector 7 Sports Complex on Sunday. In the second match of the day, Chandigarh played out a 1-1 draw with J&K.Chandigarh administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated the event.Services got off to a good start as Moirangthem Ronaldo Singh scored in the very first minute. Singh once again scored in the 42nd minute, to increase their tally to 2-0. In the second half, Himachal created chances, but could not capitalise. Services’ Vivek Kumar scored the third goal in the 70th minute. Moirangthem was adjudged the player of the match.In the next match, hosts Chandigarh faced Jammu and Kashmir. J&K got off to a good start and got their first breakthrough in the seventh minute. The goal was scored by Shakir Ahmed Sheikh. After this, Chandigarh made a comeback and created many chances. The team got its first breakthrough in the 37th minute and Sanvir Singh scored the goal. In the second half, both teams played a good game and made many changes, but the match ended in a 1-1 draw. Kunal Singh was adjudged player of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/santosh-trophy-football-tournament-services-blank-himachal-30-101637521963138.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest 2 men for stealing car from hotel parking lot||Police have arrested two men for stealing a car from the parking lot of a hotel.The accused have been identified as Nirmal Singh, 27, from Faridkot and Dalip Kumar, 34, from Dhanas.The case was registered based on the complaint of Sunny Abrol, a resident of Sector 125, Kharar. He stated that on November 12, he kept his car in the parking lot of Hotel Aquamarine in Sector 22, Chandigarh, and handed over the keys to the security guards. After some time, when he asked for the keys, the security guard said that the keys were missing and he found that the car had been stolen. Abrol said that the car also had his laptop, hard drive and other documents.Nirmal Singh was arrested on November 18 and the stolen car was recovered from his possession. He was sent to two days in police remand and based on his statement, Dalip was nabbed and two gold earrings from recovered from him. Dalip said that the Nirmal had snatched the earrings from a pedestrian.A laptop and laptop accessories, hard drive, LCD screen and other valuables were also recovered from Kumar.Police said that Nirmal Singh had gone to Canada, but was deported owing to his drug addiction.The duo had previously been arrested in a snatching case registered at the Sector 17 police station on November 13, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-2-men-for-stealing-car-from-hotel-parking-lot-101637521780026.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Amravati violence probe one-sided, Hindu protesters being targeted: Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of opposition in state Assembly and former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that investigations into the recent Amravati riots were ‘one-sided’ and that Hindu protesters were being targeted by the police for the violence. He said while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were being targeted, minority leaders and protesters were being “shielded”. Fadnavis warned that BJP will undertake ‘jail bharo andolan’ if the “unjust action” is not stopped.The former CM, who visited Amravati on Sunday, claimed that the police department was under pressure from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA). He further said that the November 12 protest by certain groups was organised on the basis of a “fake narrative” of violence in Tripura and it aimed to create unrest in the state. The protestors targeted people and ransacked shops, said Fadnavis. The November 13 protest, in which local BJP members participated, was a counter reaction to the previous day’s incidents, said Fadnavis. He added that the police are trying to ignore the violence that occurred on November 12 and are instead taking action on those who participated in the protest the next day. “The workers of BJP and Hindutva outfits are being targeted and even physically assaulted,” alleged Fadnavis. On November 12, Raza Academy and several Muslim organisations called for a bandh in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded to protest against the purported violence and vandalism in Tripura, where a mosque and the Muslim community were allegedly targeted. The bandh turned violent in many places. The very next day, BJP called for a counter protest against the November 12 rioting, which resulted in large-scale violence.State minister and Congress leader Yashomati Thakur, who is the guardian minister of Amravati district, refuted Fadnavis’ allegations and said that the government is taking action against troublemakers from both the sides. She appealed to Fadnavis to not spoil the atmosphere in Amravati. “It is sad that Fadnavis is not acting responsibly in this matter. Now there is peace in Amravati and outsiders should not come and instigate violence. We have taken action against all the people who resorted to violence. MVA is taking a neutral view in this matter. I had visited both Hindu and Muslim localities and there was an atmosphere of fear. Fundamentalist forces from both the sides are hand-in-glove for inciting violence and we have filed cases against them,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amravati-violence-probe-one-sided-hindu-protesters-being-targeted-devendra-fadnavis-101637521659950.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Samagra Shiksha programme: ₹96.82 crore sanctioned for Chandigarh for 2021-22||The Union ministry of education had under the Samagra Shiksha programme sanctioned a budget of ₹96.82 crore for Chandigarh for the financial year 2021-2022. This was decided during a project approval board (PAB) meeting held in June this year, the minutes for which were released recently, to consider the annual work plan and budget of the programme. It was chaired by the secretary of school education and literacy and attended by various officials of the UT education department. Samagra Shiksha is an overarching programme of the Union ministry for the school education sector, extending from pre-school to Class 12. It aims to boost equal opportunities for schooling and equitable learning outcomes and includes the three schemes of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) and Teacher Education (TE). Under the scheme, total budget of ₹9,682.73 lakh had been set aside for Chandigarh this year, of which ₹8,798.53 lakh is for elementary education, ₹860.99 lakhs for secondary and ₹23.21 lakh for teacher education. From the total funds, ₹9,335.12 lakh are fresh recurring, which includes funds for programme management; ₹269.40 lakh are fresh non-recurring funds and ₹78.21 lakh are spillover funds from last year. Last year, the budget was set at ₹8,974.23 lakh, a little less than this year. At the meeting, the UT had been asked to prioritise allocating the funds towards Right To Education (RTE) entitlements; foundational literacy and numeracy; quality initiatives like information and communication technologies; school grants including library and sports grants; gender, equity and inclusive education; and completion of pending civil works and spillover. The Centre had also highlighted that there are likely to be savings under this scheme and separate PAB meetings may be considered in October or November depending on fund utilisation. 64 projects pending Addressing the pending works, the report notes that 267 works were approved, out of which the UT administration has completed 203. As many as 61 pending works are currently in progress, including the construction of two primary schools and 45 additional classrooms at the elementary level upto 2017-2018 and one new school building, two additional classrooms, four bathrooms each for girls and boys and three works for drinking water at the secondary level which were approved in 2010-2011. The department is yet to start with three pending works including two block resource centres and one for drinking water. UT has been asked to complete these pending works on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samagra-shiksha-programme-96-82-crore-sanctioned-for-chandigarh-for-202122-101637521544356.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad, under its child tracking system, screens 47,700 children||The Pune Zilla Parishad under its child tracking system has screened 47,700 children, all of whom have also been checked by doctors. The Digital Health Records for these children as per National digital health mission guidelines have been created and the system has aided doctors in detecting possible illnesses. Zilla Parishad, chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Under the child tracking system, a total of 47,779 children have been screened and checked by doctors. Their Digital Health Records as per National digital health mission or NDHM guidelines have been created and this new tracking system has aided doctors in detecting possible illnesses. We have also begun the further follow up and check-up sessions of the children found with any illnesses. In this programme roughly 600 medical officers and community health officers who are trained as MBBS or BAMS doctors have been screening roughly 48,000 children and during this period 16 types of commonly found illnesses in the paediatric age groups have been detected. Any illnesses would be re-screened by paediatricians from various medical colleges of Pune.” Prasad also said that all aspects of data privacy and storage have been accounted for and that the administration will also ensure that all the screened children will get the necessary medical care and attention. He added that the software system can point out which illness the child is suffering from and that it is a diagnostic support system based on logic and case-based automation. He said, “Auto diagnosis systems help a physician to act like a specialist. It gives probable diagnosis that helps in improving trying and ensuring that proper medical care can be given to the child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zilla-parishad-under-its-child-tracking-system-screens-47-700-children-101637521539997.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||MLC election: BJP selects North Indian face with eye on civic polls||With an eye on keeping the support of the North Indian vote bank intact for the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has tried to woo the community by picking Rajhans Singh as its candidate for the legislative Council biennial poll that is to be held on December 10. According to rough estimates, Mumbai has more than 27% of North Indian voters, while the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has 15 million voters, making them decisive. The community leaders claim that of the 236 electoral wards in Mumbai, 184 have the presence of the North Indian voters ranging from 5 to 53%, while in 63 wards the community dominates with more than 25% voters. The community votes dominate more in the western suburbs than in the city or in the eastern suburbs. The multi-fold rise in BJP’s seats in the 2017 civic polls was owing to the support the party had received from the community. The party, however, is pulling all the strings to ensure that its vote share from the community does not decline. “Most of the North Indians living in Mumbai are from the eastern party of Uttar Pradesh (UP) where BJP has a strong presence. The political trend in UP has a direct impact on the sentiments of the voters in Mumbai. With the possibility of a decline in the existing vote share in the Assembly, there could be an impact felt in Mumbai. We do not want to take any chance and have been putting all efforts to keep the vote bank intact,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity of name. Singh, who was with the Congress until 2019, has served three terms as a corporator and was also the leader of opposition in BMC for eight years. He was elected as a legislator from Dindoshi in 2009. A popular face among the community, Singh, unlike his fellow party colleague and North Indian face Kripashankar Singh, does not face any corruption charges. Singh was among the five candidates announced by the party on Friday for six seats slated to be elected from the five local body members’ constituencies in Maharashtra. Two of legislators will be elected by BMC corporators. Singh is also believed to be a safe bet for the party after other community faces such as Council member RN Singh, former state minister Vidya Thakur, Sanjay Pande and Jayprakash Singh failed to make much of an impact. “Rajhans Singh has successfully organised more than 500 sessions of chaupals (corner meetings) –the outreach programme aimed to attract the North Indian voters in Mumbai for the civic polls. The party believes that it will help them in keeping the vote bank intact,” another north Indian leader said. Speaking to HT, Singh said, “Yogiji (UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath) has done a fabulous job as CM of UP and it will help us get the North Indian votes in Mumbai. We are aiming to win 150 seats in BMC polls. All the North Indian voters are with BJP.” Political analyst and former Mumbai University professor Ramji Tiwari said that the trend in UP has direct connotations on Mumbai polls. “The North Indian families living in Mumbai keep daily contacts with the rest of their family members in UP. As polls to the Mumbai civic body as well as the UP Assembly are happening around the same time, the UP trend could have a bearing on the voting in Mumbai. The North Indian votes in Mumbai are always split among various parties, though majority of them were for BJP in the 2017 civic polls. It will too early to say if BJP would be able to retain its North Indian vote bank intact,” he said. Kripashankar Singh said BJP will be able to increase its existing tally in BMC polls. “The 50 seats in which BJP candidates stood second have North Indian voters ranging between 2,000 and 10,000. The seats were lost because more candidates from the community put up their candidature. This time we will avoid the split in votes. I do not think our seats will reduce. In fact, we are aiming to increase them sizably. I do not even think that there is any bearing of the UP trend in Mumbai polls. In UP polls, the electorate is divided in the Thakur, Maurya and Yadav castes, but when it comes to Mumbai, it is BJP versus the Shiv Sena for these voters,” said Singh, who joined BJP in July after resigning from Congress two years ago. BJP currently has 82 members in the 227-member house in BMC. For the 2022 polls, the civic body will have an additional strength of nine members. Yogi to hold 3 rallies in MumbaiIn its bid to woo the North Indian voters, BJP has organised three public rallies of UP CM Yogi Adityanath next month in various areas of MMR. “I met Yogiji this week and he has confirmed to hold three rallies between December 15 and 30. The rallies will be held in Mumbai, Nallasopara and Thane to reach out to the [North Indian] community voters in MMR. As Yogiji is expected to get busy with the UP elections after January, we have invited him next month. Other ministers from his cabinet also hold rallies here,” said Kripashankar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mlc-election-bjp-selects-north-indian-face-with-eye-on-civic-polls-101637521419967.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest man for snatching woman’s purse||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police has solved a snatching case lodged in February with the arrest of a resident of Sector 52. Four mobile phones, three laptops and one DRS camera have been recovered from him, which he had snatched and stolen from different areas of Chandigarh and MohaliThe accused has been identified as Manish. He was arrested on the basis of a tip-off while he was going towards Manimajra market to sell a stolen mobile phone.On February 12 this year, Sarabjeet Kaur, 40, a resident of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, who is a teacher at a school in Kurali, stated that a man on a scooter snatched her bag which had her purse containing ₹15,000 cash, her mobile phone, her sister-in-law’s purse carrying ₹2,500 and her phone. A snatching case had been registered at Manimajra police station. Police said that Manish had previously been arrested in a case registered at Sector 11 police station. Woman falls prey to snatchers A woman from Maloya fell prey to two motorcycle-borne persons. The victim, Mandeep, 28, told the police she and her husband were walking towards Maloya, when two people on a motorcycle wearing helmets snatched her purse on Sector 39/38 west dividing road. She added that the purse contained an I-Pad and ₹8,000. A case has been registered at Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-man-for-snatching-woman-s-purse-101637521359889.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 201 new Covid cases on Sunday||As per the state health department, Pune district reported 201 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. No deaths due to the infection were reported on the day. The progressive count currently stands at 1.15 million cases out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,017 deaths reported and 2,150 are active cases.Pune rural reported 58 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 367,198 and the death toll stood at 6,947.Pune city reported 101 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 522,485 and the death toll stood at 9212.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 42 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,480 and the toll stood at 3,509.Pune district also saw 8,803 vaccinations on the day as per CoWIN dashboard and in total 1,26,64,578. Out of which 79,87,765 are first doses and 46,76,813 are second doses. A total of 246 sites saw vaccination out of which 155 were government centres and 91 were private centres.Free epilepsy camp held at district hospitalNational Health Mission in collaboration with Epilepsy Foundation Mumbai conducted an epilepsy workshop for doctors, nurses, and paramedic staff in the Pune district on Sunday. Dr Nirmal Surya and his team examined about 250 patients from the Pune district.Pune district figuresCovid-19 cases: 1,159,163Recovered patients: 1,136,996Deaths: 20,017Active cases: 2,150New cases: 201New deaths: 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-201-new-covid-cases-on-sunday-101637521301346.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 11 more test positive in Chandigarh tricity||A day after reporting five Covid-19 cases, the tricity saw an uptick with 11 people testing positive for the virus on Sunday. While Chandigarh led with six fresh cases, Panchkula logged four and Mohali just one. However, Mohali leads the tally this month with 88 cases, followed by 55 in Chandigarh and 28 in Panchkula. Mohali has also recorded three deaths due to the virus, while the other two areas have registered none this month. The active caseload stands at 81, with 38 patients in Mohali, 30 in Chandigarh and 13 in Panchkula. 27 new dengue casesMeanwhile, 27 people tested positive for dengue on Sunday, down from 37 on Saturday. Chandigarh reported 19 cases, followed by four each in Mohali and Panchkula. Dengue, which peaked last month, has claimed 37 lives in Mohali while three people have died in Chandigarh and just one in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid11-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101637521241379.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: PWD begins construction of underpass||To decongest traffic on Zirkapur to Chandigarh Road near Bhabat village intersection, the Public Works Department (PWD) has started the construction of a vehicular underpass (VUP). The work has been allotted to Jalandhar-based company Engineers Associates. The VUP will be 280 metres and the total cost of the project is ₹3 crore.Yuvraj Singh, executive engineer of PWD, said that after the construction of the VUP, traffic going directly to Chandigarh will not have to wait at the traffic light and people coming from Bhabat village side will be using the VUP, which will reduce traffic jams on the highway. He said the work will be completed within six months. He added that the VUP will also help the traffic going from Ambala to Panchkula. Using VUP, the commuters can use and can take U-turn and then go near Zirakpur bus stand (near Paras downtown) to take the Panchkula road.From the Zirakpur side, a daily traffic volume of 1,43,170 vehicles including 1,35,805 passenger car units was observed at the Rotary of Dakshin Marg and Purv Marg near Sector 31 Tribune Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-pwd-begins-construction-of-underpass-101637521126437.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two Kolkata men held with charas get 10-year RI||The district court, Chandigarh, has awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment to two men from Kolkata, three years after they were arrested with 1.21 kilograms of charas at the Inter State Bus Terminus in Sector 43.The convicts have been identified as Mohd Ziauddin, 66, and Mohd Sultan, 25. They have also been fined ₹1 lakh each. Meanwhile, Shakuntla Devi, 53, of Kullu, who was also put on trial in the same case has been acquitted as the prosecution failed to prove the charges against her.The duo was arrested by a joint team of the Narcotics Control Bureau’s zonal unit and Chandigarh Police on May 11, 2018. According to the prosecution, they first denied that they were carrying any drugs but then handed over a jacket in which the contraband had been concealed. They claimed they had purchased it from Shakuntala Devi in Kullu for ₹50,000 per kg. Its weight was found to be 1.21 kg. In court, the public prosecutor sought stringent punishment for the two, even as the accused pleaded for leniency.Ziauddin alleged that he had been made a scapegoat to shield real culprits and the contraband had been planted on him. Even Sultan and Shakuntla Devi pleaded that nothing had been recovered from them.After hearing both sides, the court observed that the prosecution failed to prove the offence under the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act against Shakuntla Devi, and she was acquitted of all charges framed against her.“However, the prosecution has been able to prove the offence under Section 20 of the NDPS Act against accused Mohd Sultan and Mohd Ziauddin beyond reasonable doubt,” the judge observed while holding them guilty. Section 20 of the NDPS Act pertains to possession of a contraband within the ambit of commercial quantity, without any licence or permit.The court added that the instances of trafficking in contraband are on an alarming rise and drugs have directly affected the youth and entire social fabric of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtwo-kolkata-men-held-with-charas-get-10-year-ri-101637521066037.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Temperature will dip this week in Chandigarh: IMD||After remaining stable for a few days, the mercury is likely to begin a gradual drop this week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh. “A western disturbance was keeping night temperatures from falling down last week. It even increased the day temperature slightly. But that system has now passed the region. Cold northwesterly winds can be expected again and a fall in temperature by two to three notches is likely in the coming days,” said an IMD official. On Sunday, maximum temperature saw a marginal dip from Saturday’s 28°C degrees to 27.8°C while minimum temperature rose slightly from 10.2°C to 10.3°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 26 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 9 and 10 degrees. Meanwhile, air quality in the city continues to remain in the moderate range. The Air Quality Index (AQI) at both the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sectors 22 and 25 was recorded below 200 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temperature-will-dip-this-week-in-chandigarh-imd-101637521064869.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Only 32% non-teaching posts filled by regular staff||With only 32% non-teaching posts filled by regular employees, Panjab University (PU) has been reeling under an acute staff crunch. In the seven categories of administrative staff, regular appointments have been made on only 727 out of the total 2,268 sanctioned posts. Even as a number of employees have been hired on temporary basis on the remaining 1,541 posts, the shortage has resulted in overburdening the present staff over the years. In fact, no fresh recruitment has taken place for years, and the issue was recently flagged by the Panjab University Staff (Non-teaching) Association in a letter to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.Existing staff overburdenedIn the letter, the association said that fresh recruitments are required against the vacant posts as the existing staff has been overburdened. According to its members, the last recruitment took place in 2013. Association president Honey Thakur said: “The workload on the present employees has increased due to the staff shortage. The varsity should at least fill the vacant posts in the feeding cadre. The number of courses as well as students has increased but the manpower has not increased over all these years.”Manpower audit underwayThe varsity has already initiated a manpower audit to rationalise the non-teaching staff. According to an official, who did not wish to be named, the audit is being conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration. “The audit report is expected in a few months and it will reveal the actual need of staff in the university,” said the official.PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said: “Besides manpower audit, the varsity has also written to the education ministry for permission to fill the posts that fell vacant in the past three years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-only-32-non-teaching-posts-filled-by-regular-staff-101637521063730.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Patience has paid today, says Vinod Tawde; becomes BJP’s general secretary||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former state minister Vinod Tawde has been elevated to the post of national general secretary, by party’s national president JP Nadda, on Sunday. This move is being viewed as a strong message to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, as the elevation is believably done against his wishes.Tawde said, “I have been given many responsibilities by the party in the past. I was general secretary at the state level, youngest chief of the Mumbai unit of the party, leader of Opposition in the legislative council, minister with eight departments, among other responsibilities in my political career. When I was denied a ticket in the 2019-Assembly polls, I had said that I am a party worker who believes in patience and there was no question of quitting the party for just one denial. The patience has paid today.”Talking about Tawde’s failure to get a ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections, a senior party leader under the conditions of anonymity said, “Tawde, Eknath Khadse, Chandrashekhar Bawankule are heavyweights who were not nominated. This sent out the wrong message that loyalists were ill-treated, while outsiders were given the upper hand. Similar treatment was meted out to Pankaja Munde, who had to face defeat in the polls because of ‘anti-party activities’ in her constituency during the election.”He further added that Tawde was removed from the post of the medical education department within one and a half years after the Fadnavis government was formed. “He was also kept away from making decisions on key issues, including Maratha reservation, during the stint. Tawde’s appointment has come just a day after Bawankule was featured in the list of candidates announced for the legislative council elections to be held on December 10. This is a clear message to the Fadnavis camp,” he stated.Tawde, who had been elected from the Borivali constituency in 2014, is a key Konkani leader. His elevation is also seen as an attempt to woo the Konkani voters living in Mumbai ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections.BJP leader Ashish Shelar said that it is a happy moment for the Maharashtra unit of the party. “He has been a prominent leader from the state. As a secretary and in charge of Haryana, he has done an impressive job. His elevation is a delight for all of us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patience-has-paid-today-says-vinod-tawde-becomes-bjp-s-general-secretary-101637521061844.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Skewed development irks Dhanas village residents in Ward 14||Ward No. 14 comprises Dhanas village, which came under the Chandigarh municipal corporation in 2018, besides parts of Dhanas — LIG Colony, Milkman Colony, Aman Colony, Chaman Colony and Ambedkar Colony — that were under Ward No. 5 before the fresh delimitation earlier this year. Locals claim that while there has been some development in the colonies, the village continues to face neglect.Bhim Singh, a former Dhanas village panchayat member who will be voting in the MC elections for the first time, says: “The main road leading to the village hasn’t been repaired for seven years. The streetlights don’t work. Around 25% of the area lies outside the lal dora. Now that the village will have a councillor to represent us in the MC, we expect these issues to be resolved and new development works to kick off on a similar scale as in the adjoining colonies.”Parking pangs in coloniesAt Chaman, Aman and Ambedkar colonies, roads are narrow and paved parking spaces have been made on the roadside. However, with the number of vehicles going up, the space is not enough. Sanjay Chauhan, a resident of Chaman Colony, says: “We need more space for parking vehicles. People end up parking vehicles on the main road, which is already narrow; so it leaves no space to move, especially at night.”Moving on the inner lanes is as problematic. Tara Singh, 80, of Ambedkar Colony, says the uneven roads haven’t been repaired for years. “The roads become especially bad after rain. Just recently, a neighbour slipped and got injured.” Cattle an irritant at Milkman Colony Even as Milkman Colony is the most affluent locality in the area with big plots for bungalows, cattle roam freely on roads and in parks, raising sanitation issues. Avtar Singh, president of the Resident Welfare Association here, says, “We had demanded that Milkman Colony be declared Sector 14 West, which was approved by the administration in 2020. While the area is called Milkman Colony, only a few people rear animals. They are supposed to keep them inside their premises, but still let them loose, creating problems for others.” Area councillor Sheela Devi also resides in the colony. “The dispute regarding cattle has gone on for a long time. I have spoken to senior MC officials to challan those who rear their cattle on public land. We have also developed 40 parks in Dhanas,” she said.Know your wardLocalities: Dhanas village; LIG Colony, Milkman Colony, Aman Colony, Chaman Colony and Ambedkar Colony, all in DhanasGeneral ward with around 15,000 votersKey issuesDhanas village is lagging behind in development as compared to the coloniesShortage of parking spaces and dilapidated streets a key issue in coloniesMilk Colony residents irked by cattle being let loose in parksLocal voicesWater bills have increased manifold even as the supply continues to suffer, especially in market areas: Sunil Kumar, 49, a resident of Milk Colony who runs a dhaba in the areaWe need development on a par with colonies. The main road leading to the village needs immediate repairs: Bhim Singh, 52, former panchayat member of Dhanas VillagePeople from the adjoining village dump garbage in our colony, raising a stink. Also, parking issue needs to be addressed on priority: Sanjay Chauhan, 36, a resident of Chaman Colony in DhanasElectricity wires hang loosely over streets, posing danger. Paver blocks were recently laid on the streets, but the work is shoddy: Anand Dev, 63, a resident of Dhanas Village||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhskewed-development-irks-dhanas-village-residents-in-ward-14-101637521059967.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to get new bus stand near Sohana gurdwara on Airport Road||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has directed the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to finalise a site for a new bus stand near Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan in Sohana. Around four acres of land is lying vacant near the gurdwara along the Airport Road.The directions were given in a meeting chaired by the CM recently. MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and GMADA chief administrator Vipul Ujwal attended it along with other senior officials. Mohali already has the region’s first air-conditioned Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) along the Chandigarh-Kharar highway in Phase 6, Mohali, which also houses a commercial complex. Twelve years after its inception, the bus terminal has become partially operational, but the commercial project is stuck in corporate insolvency resolution process.The demand for a new bus stand within the city was made by Sidhu, following which the CM directed GMADA to finalise the site, said a senior officer who was present in the meeting.‘Will finalise site in first week of December’“We are hopeful of finalising the site in the first week of December. One chunk of land of nearly 4 acres is lying vacant near the gurdwara in Sohana. As land rates are very high on the Airport Road, we are planning for mixed land use, wherein we can have the bus stand in the basement and commercial activities on the ground floor to compensate for the high land cost,” said the GMADA officer, who did not wish to be named.As far as the existing ISBT is concerned, GMADA has shown interest in taking over the project. In 2019, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)’s special bench had initiated corporate insolvency resolution process for C&C Towers Limited, which was allotted the project in 2009. Once GMADA takes over the project, it will also take over all liabilities of stakeholders, investors and depositors and will run all activities of the commercial complex, except the operations of ISBT, which will be transferred to the Punjab state transport department, according to the officer.‘ISBT too far off for local commuters’Meanwhile, Balbir Singh Sidhu said that as the Mohali municipal corporation is set to launch a city bus service, a bus stand is needed in the centre of the city. “As the new bus stand will be on the Airport Road, it will be convenient for local commuters. The present bus stand is out of bounds for city residents, as they have to pay around ₹200 for commute,” he said.The Mohali MC General House had approved the agenda pertaining to the city bus service earlier this month. The service is expected to be rolled out from January 1, with an initial fleet of six buses on eight routes within the MC limits. The project had been hanging fire for a decade.However, questions have been raised on the proposal to build a bus stand on the busy Airport Road, especially at the congested site near the gurdwara. According to sources, even buses plying to other parts of Punjab will use the new bus stand.Harpreet Singh, a member of the district road safety committee, said: “Airport Road is the busiest road and prone to accidents. The authorities concerned should be very cautious in adding more heavy traffic volume on this road. The road safety issue should be taken into consideration before planning a new bus stand.” Meanwhile, sources said that the CM has also asked GMADA to construct an auditorium on the lines of Chandigarh’s Tagore Theatre in Sector 78 and a new Dussehra ground in Sector 90.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-to-get-new-bus-stand-near-sohana-gurdwara-on-airport-road-101637521001055.html
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Third FIR registered against GBP Group management||The Zirakpur police on Sunday registered third FIR against the Gupta Builders and Promoters (GBP) Group for failing to give possession of properties to the buyers. Around two months back, GBP Group management had left the country without completing various real estate projects in Mohali district and leaving 2,500 investors in the lurch, following which two cases were registered against them.The Mohali police have already issued lookout circulars against the group’s three directors: Satish Gupta, Raman Gupta and Pardeep Gupta. Around 70 allottees, who had invested money in the group’s Athens (residential and commercial) and Aeroze (residential) projects – both on the Airport Road – filed a police complaint after they were not given possession and the work was stopped. One of the complainants, Ujjwal Sethi of Sector 45, Chandigarh, said: “We have taken loans from the bank and we are paying instalments as well rent for our house. The builders promised us possession four years back. Now, even the work has been stopped.” “A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) has been registered against the GBP Group management and we have initiated proceedings to arrest them,” said Onkar Singh Brar, station house officer, Zirakpur. The realty firm has several ongoing projects in Mohali. Among them, Camelia, offering both residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur have been under construction since 2016. At another residential colony in New Chandigarh, where plots have been sold, construction has not even begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-third-fir-registered-against-gbp-group-management-101637520999919.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s performing arts’ festivals waiting for govt clarity before going ahead||Music and performing art aficionados usually warm up for the winter chill with a feast of festivals in the city. Because of the pandemic and Covid-induced restrictions, many festivals had to be cancelled or were held online last year. As Covid cases have gone down and restrictions have been considerably eased this year, organisers of the music and performing arts’ festivals are optimistically looking forward to hosting the shows this year. They are however, seeking clarity from the administration on rules related to shows on open grounds and have also demanded relaxations of the 50% occupancy rule for auditoriums. Shrinivas Joshi, executive secretary of the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal that organises the Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav said that he is looking forward to organising the mahotsav this year. “We are receiving a lot of queries from the audience as well. We need more clarity whether we will be allowed to old the performances on open grounds. A Mahotsav like this cannot be held in an auditorium. Because of Covid restrictions, it could not be held last year. Following the Covid protocols we did hold a programme online as it was the birth centenary year of Pandit Bhimsen Joshi,” said Joshi. “Whatever situation , maybe the Swar Jhankar festival will be held this year. It would help to plan the details of the festival if more clarity on relaxation of the 50% occupancy is given. Everyone is requesting that the festival should happen as people are also seeking a sense of normalcy. We are hoping for the best,” said Rajas Upadhye, chief executive officer, Swar Jhankar music festival. This is the birth centenary completion year of late veteran singer Vasantrao Deshpande. His grandson and popular classical singer Rahul Deshpande confirmed that the famous Vasantotsav, a 14-year old music festival would be organised this year. “It has been planned for the third week of January,” said Rahul Deshpande from Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-performing-arts-festivals-waiting-for-govt-clarity-before-going-ahead-101637520879897.html
22-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to clean stormwater drain along Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will desilt and clean one-kilometre portion of the stormwater drain along the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road from next month, said officials on Sunday.The kilometre-long stretch of the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road falls under Dundahera village, just before the Delhi-Gurugram border.The stormwater drain runs parallel to the main carriageway, linking the national capital and Gurugram. Due to the area being located right next to the border, there is a heavy movement of vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians, said the officials.Drains along the stretch, which were developed in the 1980s, are riddled with issues. According to the MCG officials, besides the mixing of stormwater and sewerage lines, the drain is also broken at several points, resulting in rainwater overflowing onto the main carriageway during the monsoon season, inundating the stretch and triggering snarls.“We observed that the stormwater drain is connected to many bathrooms and kitchens in the village due to which there is mixing of sewerage and stormwater lines. Additionally, the stormwater drain has developed holes and cracks at several points, due to which, some portion of the rainwater is inadvertently flowing and mixing with the sewerage line,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter, adding that the line has also clogged due to the mixing of drains and dumping of waste at the exposed portions. “Our first objective is to clear all debris and garbage from the stormwater line. Subsequently, we will fix all the cracks and gaps, and then align the entire line with the master stormwater line,” said another senior MCG official from its engineering wing, requesting anonymity.The MCG has floated a ₹13.90 lakh tender for the project bids, which will open on Thursday.Last month, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) announced that they have been renovating and upgrading drainage lines along the entire 7.5-km-long Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road. As part of the project, the GMDA is widening and upgrading the stormwater drains for a projected cost of ₹16 crore, which will also include construction of rainwater harvesting pits and aligning the width of the upstream and downstream portions of the drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-clean-stormwater-drain-along-old-delhi-gurgaon-road-101637520702150.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Schools set to reopen after Diwali holidays, but principals want full attendance to be allowed||As schools reopen after the Diwali vacations on November 22, teachers believe that classes should be reopened at full capacity to avoid any more loss of classes for students. At present, only classes 8 to 12 are allowed to reopen at 50 per cent capacity as per directives of the education department. Speaking about the school reopening, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association said that majority schools will reopen from November 22.“Although the official Diwali vacation ended on November 20, not many students turned up that day. However, from Monday (November 22), students are likely to attend school and schools will restart,” said Gaikwad.“Due to 50 per cent capacity at schools, teachers have to repeat what they are teaching twice. This will lead to a delay in completion of the syllabus. Also, the motivation of teachers is decreasing day by day,” said Gaikwad.He also shared that the students from Classes 8 to 12 are attending schools in urban areas. “There is less fear of Covid among parents and students now. We can see that parents want their children to attend offline school. Because of the online schooling, many students do not have their concepts clear. This will affect their future performance,” said Gaikwad.Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said that teachers are investing time teaching one subject repeatedly due to the 50 per cent capacity rule.“As students are now well aware about Covid protocol, they should be granted permission to attend school in full capacity. Moreover, for subjects like social sciences, the weekly lectures are already few. If teachers have to take two lectures to finish the same topics then it becomes hectic for them as well,” said Sinnarkar.She added that many teachers are forced to finish their syllabus through online lectures as well. “This in turn affects the learning of the students. In this view, schools should be started in full capacity,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-set-to-reopen-after-diwali-holidays-but-principals-want-full-attendance-to-be-allowed-101637520641095.html
22-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality worsens in Gurugram, but still in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality in Gurugram worsened on Sunday, though it remained in the ‘very poor’ category. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 364 on Sunday against 345 a day earlier, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Experts, however, said that the situation is likely to improve in the coming days as the dense plumes of smoke, which were visible in satellite images of Delhi-NCR a few days ago, have reduced considerably through Saturday and Sunday.According to the CPCB, the air quality in Gurugram remained in the ‘very poor’ category with heavy accumulation of particulate matter in the air for the seventh consecutive day on Sunday.At the four air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram, the AQI recorded at Teri Gram was 375, 374 at Vikas Sadan, 362 at Sector 51 and 343 at Gwal Pahari.According to the CPCB guidelines, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted stronger winds in coming days and said that it will be favourable for better dispersion of pollutants as the air quality is likely to improve to the ‘poor’ and ‘moderate’ category on Monday and Tuesday (November 22 and 23).“Predominant surface winds are likely to come to the city from the northwest direction of Delhi with a wind speed 12-20 kilometre per hour (kmph) and strong surface winds with a speed of 20-30 kmph during Monday,” said the IMD, adding that the city may see a clear sky and experience mist on Monday and Tuesday mornings.On Sunday, the IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Gurugram at 24.4 degrees Celsius (°C) and 10.6°C, respectively.Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor of Teri School of Advanced Studies, said, “The wind speed in the coming days is likely to be more than 10kmph, which will improve things... as compared to the average wind speed of 2kmph on Saturday. Satellite images are also showing relatively less plumes over this region now.”Dr Sachin Pawar, a Gurugram-based air quality specialist, said that there is a dip in the temperature as the pollutants closer to the ground are not getting dispersed.“There will be a constant drop in the temperatures as winter is coming, and this will ensure that pollutants don’t get dispersed. Pollution levels are likely to remain high for the next 10 days,” said Pawar.An official of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), requesting anonymity, said that the pollutants are likely to disperse over the region, which will help in improving the air quality, as the wind speed is picking up. A strict watch is being kept in all the areas, he added.Meanwhile, Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Civic agencies have been directed to implement anti-pollution measures strictly. Action is being taken against all the violators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-worsens-in-gurugram-but-still-in-very-poor-category-101637520639857.html
22-11-2021||Gurugram||Crackdown on sell of hookah in pubs and bars in Gurugram||Two days after three ahatas (drinking places) were found operating beyond permissible timings and serving hookah, excise officials have formed teams to keep a check on operations at night.These teams have started surprise checks and taken action against restaurants, pubs and bars which serve hookah -- as recovered from three ahatas (drinking places) late Friday night, and more than 15 people were present at each place. Each team will be led by assistant excise and taxation officers (AETO) and excise inspectors, according to the department.VK Beniwal, deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (East), said that most of the complaints come from the Golf Course Extension Road and developing areas. “We have directed the teams to conduct reconnaissance of these areas before searches and surprise checks,” he said.Beniwal also said that people found operating such places illegally or violating the excise policy will face issues while renewing licenses. “The documents will be sent to Chandigarh, so that the headquarters can take action against the violators directly,” he said.The chief minister’s flying squad has also been receiving complaints for the past few weeks that some small places are serving liquor and hookah without licences, said police, adding that a few pubs and bars in the city also serve vapes and e-hookahs these days.“Vapes are being used nowadays. A liquid is heated, which generates an aerosol or vapour inhaled by the consumers,” said Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police (crime).Police said if they find any place serving hookah illegally, they will register a legal case against it under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 120 (conspiracy), and sections 4 and 6 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, and Section 72C of the Punjab Excise Act.The district administration had invoked Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 on March 2, 2012, to stop the operations of hookah bars. Within a year, the health and police departments closed seven hookah bars across the city after searches. Also, in July 2013, more than 100 students from prominent schools were caught in a bar -- Hookah Baron -- during a search conducted by the excise department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/crackdown-on-sell-of-hookah-in-pubs-and-bars-in-gurugram-101637520579834.html
22-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Members of rival gangs clash in Bhondsi jail, three injured||Three inmates sustained severe injuries after members of two rival gangs clashed in Bhondsi jail on Saturday evening, police said. The injured were identified as Deepak Kumar from Bhiwani, Dhiraj Kumar of Gurugram and Deepak Kumar of Rewari, said police, adding that they are lodged in the jail for several murder cases. Police said members of the two gangs -- Dandi gang and Ashok Rathi gang -- were involved in the clash.A case was registered against Rajeev alias Raju of Basai in Gurugram and his close aides. Rajeev is a member of Kala gang, police said, adding the reason for the clash could not be established immediately. The injured were taken to the Civil Hospital at Sector 10 from where they were referred to PGIMS, Rohtak, the officials said. Jagbir Singh, station house officer of Bhondsi police station, said that they were carrying grudges against each other since last year after triple murder in Basai. “This is not the first time that violence erupted in the jail. There have been several incidents where inmates have attacked each other,” he said. Singh said that last month both gang members were taken to the local court for their case hearing where they landed in a tiff. “The members of the two gangs were looking for the right opportunity to attack each other. On Saturday evening, they got the chance and members of Dandi gang attacked the three members of Rathi gang while they were standing outside the barrack,” he said. The suspects were booked for attempt to murder and threatening for life, said police. Police said they will take the suspects on production warrant and interrogate them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-members-of-rival-gangs-clash-in-bhondsi-jail-three-injured-101637520520246.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 5% of ward tax collection to be reserved for EDMC local development fund||In a bid to incentivise tax collections and increase its revenue, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will allocate 5% of property taxes and license fee collected from each ward to its local area development (LAD) fund. A senior EDMC official said that cap of ₹50 lakh has been fixed on this councillor LAD fund. The tax and fee collection to be considered under this scheme include property tax, general trade license, health trade license, veterinary license and factory license. The civic body’s jurisdiction is divided into 64 municipal wards, split into two administrative zones — Shahdara North and Shahdara South.East Delhi municipal commissioner Vikas Anand said that to implement this scheme, a councillor-wise record of an area’s development work will be maintained. “The councillor of the area concerned must ensure that the development work is necessary and cannot be postponed. Payments will be released depending on the availability of funds,” he said.“While undertaking development work, the councillor will ensure that financial discipline and prudence are followed,” Anand added.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the civic body has not been able to provide any LAD funds due to financial constraints, except for one annual cycle in the past five years, when councillors were given ₹30 lakh each. He, however, said he was not entirely in support of the policy“The idea behind the scheme may be to push councillors to improve tax collections in their areas, but it will also lead to disparity between rich and poor areas. Shahdara South is relatively more affluent, with developed commercial areas and tax collections will be higher. I am in favour of increasing tax collections, but an economically backward area should not be penalised to achieve that goal,” Aggarwal said. Resident welfare groups welcomed the idea, but urged that a monitoring mechanism involving local citizens be put in place. BS Vohra who heads the East Delhi RWA Joint Front said that that the record of collections from an area and its utilisation should be made public. “It is public money and should be used for public welfare. But the 5% quantum is too little and should be raised. For instance, the construction of a mid-sized inner colony lane alone takes ₹7-8 lakh,” Vohra said. Atul Goel, who heads URJA, an umbrella body of resident welfare groups, said ward consultative committees involving RWAs should be formed to prioritise work to be undertaken using such a fund. “Basic parity between wards should be ensured, as some wards will have higher tax collections due to commercialisation and dense population. These areas will also need more development work due to a larger number of users,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-5-of-ward-tax-collection-to-be-reserved-for-edmc-local-development-fund-101637520342893.html
22-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: ILD Green buyers hold meeting, threaten to protest against developer||Around 50 homebuyers of ILD Green, a stuck housing project in Sector 37C, on Sunday held a meeting in Sector 29 to express their anger at the inability of the developer to deliver their flats even after nine years.According to the buyers, the project was launched in 2008 and was supposed to be delivered in 2012, but almost half of the buyers are still waiting for their homes. Of six towers in the project, only three have been delivered by the builder, International Land Developers (ILD).“Around 500 buyers in three towers are waiting for their flats for the past nine years, but nothing has happened. We have approached the authorities also, but things are not working. Many buyers invested their retirement savings in the project,” said Alok Kumar, a member of ILD Green Flat Buyers Association. Anjali Sharma, a homebuyer, said that despite long delays, the developer is now sending demand notices while there is no work going on at the project site. The association members also said that they plan to hold protests if their flats are not delivered soon. Manmohan Sharma, another buyer, said that the work on tower number two has completely stopped. “We will again be approaching the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) to get relief,” he said. The developer did not respond to phone calls and text messages sent by HT on Sunday. However, on the same issue, a senior ILD official had said last year, “A mitigation plan has been submitted at H-Rera. We have been able to work cohesively with the clients and have almost completed the works for T6 & T7. As per the mitigation plan, Tower 2 is to be subsequently completed after T6 & T7.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-ild-green-buyers-hold-meeting-threaten-to-protest-against-developer-101637520219913.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Six police stations in Pune now have child-friendly rooms||PUNE The Pune Police have set up six child-friendly rooms at police stations on Sinhagad road, Dattawadi, Alankar, Kothrud, Warje Malwadi and Uttamnagar, under Zone III of the commissionerate, on the occasion of World Child Rights day. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta inaugurated the room at the Sinhagad road police station on Saturday. The city police set up its first child-friendly room at the Cantonment station in Camp in December 2020. The Juvenile Justice Act 2015 stipulated that all departments working with children must be child friendly. All children in need of protection within the jurisdiction of the police station and in conflict with the law should be rehabilitated in a child-friendly environment. For this purpose, special rooms have been set up on the premises of the police stations. According to the police, the main aim of the child friendly room initiative was to provide an environment that will enable children to report cases without fear and it will benefit even those children who have committed offences and ensure that repeat offenders and children from nearby communities are not engaged in criminal activities and, on the contrary, support police in prevention of crime. Also present on the occasion were Caroline Valter, founder CEO of Hope for The Children Foundation, joint CP (law and order) Ravindra Shisve, additional CP Rajendra Dahale, Pune Police psychology well-being group member Gayatri Kotbagi, actress Parna Pethe, former member of NCPCR Rupa Kapoor, District Child Protection Officer Param Anand, DCP (Zone III) Pournima Gaikwad, ACP (Sinhgad division) Sunil Pawar and ACP (Kothrud division) Gajanan Tonpe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-police-stations-in-pune-now-have-child-friendly-rooms-101637520159846.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Mercury dips, air quality improves marginally||Temperatures in Delhi fell sharply on Sunday on the back of faster winds and clear skies, as scientists at the Indian weather office warned that the mercury will continue to drop in the coming days. Pollution levels also improved marginally, owing to the bump in wind speeds and a change in their pattern.Recordings by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that on Sunday, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, was 9.8 degrees Celsius, three below normal for this time of the year, and nearly five notches lower than Saturday’s minimum temperature.The maximum temperature was on Sunday was 27.3°C, a notch above normal.IMD forecasters explained that this drop in temperatures on Sunday was because of a change in direction of winds blowing into Delhi, which went from from southeasterly to northwestly the previous evening.The city also saw clearer skies on Saturday night, which also helped the surface cool at a faster rate.“The temperatures in Delhi and most parts of northwest India are likely to fall by two to four degrees during the next three days,” a senior Met official said.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services said the winter chill is expected to set in the coming week.Meanwhile, Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index on Sunday was 349, categorised as ‘very poor’ by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This was a marginal improvement from 374 the previous day.As the air cleared, the visibility in the city also improved.“As predicted, winds in Delhi improved on Sunday and reached up to 15-20 kmph around 11am. With this, visibility also improved to about 2,200-3,000 metres at the Safdarjung and Palam airports. It was about 800 metres in the morning,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.The Met department has forecast a further drop in pollution levels in the next two days, with the AQI likely to improve and reach the ‘poor’ zone on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-mercury-dips-air-quality-improves-marginally-101637520040998.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Passengers hope relaxed curbs on Delhi Metro will ease crowds at stations||Passengers on the Delhi Metro on Sunday said they hoped the easing of capacity and standing travel caps on the public transit service will ease crowds outside stations, which have been a perennial pain point for commuters since services resumed in September last year.Santosh Kumar, a passenger travelling on the Delhi Metro’s Blue Line (between Dwarka Sector 21 and Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) on Sunday said it was “senseless” for authorities to impose restrictions on the Metro when the entire city is functioning normally, with few curbs in place. “Look at the markets, the streets. The entire city is functioning normally. So, is the Metro the only place where Covid-19 can spread? While the trains were fairly empty, the wait to enter stations and trains was very long. I hope this will ease now,” said Kumar. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday allowed an additional 30 standing passengers in each Metro coach, along with 100% seating capacity, as a measure to boost the use of public transport in light of the hazardous air pollution levels in the Capital. The Authority also allowed buses to operate with standing passengers for the first time since restrictions were put in place to limit the spread of Covid-19.In buses run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and under the cluster scheme, standing passengers will be allowed at up to 50% of the total seating capacity of each bus. Preety Rajnish (28), said she has to wait at least 20-25 minutes just to enter Rajiv Chowk Metro station while on her way back from her office in Connaught Place. “The more I get delayed due to the Metro, the longer it takes for me to get home. It’s winter and gets dark faster. It would be nice if more passengers can be allowed in the train because it’ll be safer for women like me to reach home on time,” Rajnish said. She added that several passengers stood in the Metro even before the rules were eased, so the decision could have come earlier to save passengers the long waits. HT reached out to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for a comment on how this relaxation will help operations, but the agency refused to respond. However, a senior DMRC official, who asked not to be named, said, “The Metro is designed as a mass transit mode, which means it is meant to carry more standing passengers than seated passengers. These restrictions, which have continued for over a year, have impacted revenue. But we hope more relaxations will be allowed in due course. We are already taking all safety precautions inside stations and in trains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/passengers-hope-relaxed-curbs-on-delhi-metro-will-ease-crowds-at-stations-101637520039852.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Rain in Pune on Sunday, but temperature unlikely to drop further till November end: IMD||As the city heads towards the end of November, Pune continues to see cloudy skies and spells of intense rainfall. On Saturday late night and Sunday evening, many areas in the city reported rainfall. The night temperatures however are unlikely to see a drop till November end, as per the weather department.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), between 5:30 pm and 8:30 pm, Shivajinagar reported 0.8 mm rainfall and Lavale reported 8.5 mm rainfall . Other places in the city reported traces of rains during this time.. Across the city, cloudy weather was reported. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather at IMD Pune said that the maximum temperature was 28.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 1.3 degrees cooler than normal.“Whereas the minimum temperature in the city was 22 degrees Celsius which was 7.7 degrees warmer than normal. The coolest place in Maharashtra on Sunday was Mahabaleshwar which reported a minimum temperature at 17.9 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi.He added that cloudy skies in the city are likely to continue till November 25. “Light rainfall is very likely till November 23. And thereafter there are more chances of cloudy weather in the city till November 25. Maximum temperature till November 27 will be around 31 degrees C and night temperature will be around 21-23 degrees Celsius during this time,” said Kashyapi.He also added that parts of Konkan and Goa, Central Maharashtra and Marathwada may continue to witness isolated rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning till November 22. After this the probability of rainfall is less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rain-in-pune-on-sunday-but-temperature-unlikely-to-drop-further-till-november-end-imd-101637519980049.html
22-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Two held for murder of businessman in Pataudi||Two persons were arrested on Saturday night in connection with the murder of a 45-year-old businessman in Pataudi last month. Police have recovered the weapon and an SUV used in the crime. Police identified the suspects as Sandeep Kumar and Arun Kumar, both from Farrukhnagar. They were arrested from Bilaspur crossing, police said. According to police, on October 8, five men barged into the hotel of Mahendra Singh in Sanpka village and fired at him and his brother Ajit Singh, killing the latter on the spot. Ajit ran a transport business, police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, said on Sunday that the murder was fallout of a rivalry between two groups to dominate the logistics business of an e-commerce company in the area. “The e-commerce company has multiple warehouses in and around the city and has given logistics contracts to different local firms,” he said. On October 17, police had arrested three persons in the case. “A CCTV footage helped police identify the suspects,” Sangwan said. An FIR was registered against five suspects under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Pataudi police station on October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-two-held-for-murder-of-businessman-in-pataudi-101637519863572.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Swachh rankings: AAP blames BJP for poor show by Delhi MCDs||New Delhi: The Aam Admi Party has blamed the “misgovernance by the BJP” in the three municipal corporations for the poor performance of the civic bodies in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings released on Saturday. The BJP shot back, saying that the AAP government has starved the corporations of funds and tax allocations which is their operations. North Delhi Municipal Corporation was adjudged the fourth dirtiest area with a population of over a million while the East Delhi Municipal Corporation was in the bottom 10, in this category. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) was ranked 31st, the same as 2020.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Sunday said that all the three BJP-ruled MCDs have failed disastrously, and have not even been able to make it to the top 20 in the swachh rankings by the central government. “BJP’s MCD is bringing shame to 2 crore people of Delhi. If BJP cannot handle it, then they should leave MCD,” Bharadwaj said. The senior AAP leader alleged that the toilets blocks managed by corporations were maintained only during the survey. “All toilets are locked and are collecting dust. They (the MCDs) don’t have the money to hire people for its maintenance,” he alleged. Bhardwaj, the AAP MLA from Greater Kailash, said the Delhi municipal corporations have brought shame to the capital. “For the last 6 years, they have ensured that Delhi stayed in the list of the dirtiest cities in the country. This is the finding of their own survey. Even if we were to keep aside their other responsibilities of collecting property tax, construction regulation, managing parking and curbing dengue, the MCDs have failed in their basic duty to keep the city clean,” he added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said there is no doubt that Delhi’s ranking in sanitation survey was not satisfactory, but he blamed Delhi government for the poor results. “Aam Aadmi Party leader Saurabh Bhardwaj levels politically motivated allegations against BJP-ruled MCDs. He has chosen to use the sanitation ranking to attack MCDs, but can he tell how the Delhi government has cooperated with the MCDs to improve sanitation standards in Delhi. Arvind Kejriwal has excessive economic resources yet it (the government) doesn’t allocate full funds to the MCDs,” he said. “The denial of funds, as per 5th Delhi Finance Commission and withholding of funds as per 3rd and 4th finance commission recommendation is affecting the corporations’ sanitation services. MCDs don’t have money to hire new sanitation workers even as many posts in the sanitation department are lying vacant. There is no money either to buy sanitation machines,” Kapoor claimed. He added that despite all these odds municipal sanitation workers try hard to keep Delhi as clean as possible, and that by repeatedly calling Delhi a dirty city, the AAP has insulted their work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swachh-rankings-aap-blames-bjp-for-poor-show-by-delhi-mcds-101637519859838.html
22-11-2021||Pune||Audit still awaits records of projects approved by PMC||While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved various works and projects on priority using article 72B of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation (BPMC) Act, 1949, the administration has not provided the audit department with records of these works and projects which are necessary for the audit department to make provision for them in next year’s budget. For the audit department to make provision for such works and projects in next year’s budget, various departments of the corporation must provide their names and estimated costs to the audit department. Past experience shows that whenever the administration has failed to provide the audit department with records of such works and projects, the same have not been provided for in the budget of the subsequent year and as a result, have ground to a halt.Citing an example, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member Vishal Tambe said, “A few years ago, the auditorium on Sinhagad road was approved using article 72B but in the next few years, the standing committee chairman refused to make budgetary provision for the same which is why it is pending till today.”Audit department head Ulka Kalaskar said, “Our department had issued a letter to all department heads and sought information about all such projects that got permission by using article 72B but we haven’t got the required information from the departments till date.”According to sources, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar recently held a meeting with all the department heads and directed them to first list the projects that were going under article 72B so that the same would be provided for in the regular budget. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, general body meetings did not take place for a long time and various proposals were approved under article 72B. An official on condition of anonymity said that projects worth more than Rs5,000 crore including the 24x7 water project, riverfront development, various flyover works and proposals related to health, were approved using this article.Recently, Congress leader Aba Bagul alleged that the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) had brought this trend. He said that if the next standing committee chairman were to refuse funding for all such works and projects, it would get difficult for the ruling party.As per article 72B of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation (BPMC) act 1949, the municipal commissioner and general body can use funds on priority for projects that are not planned or do not have budgetary provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/audit-still-awaits-records-of-projects-approved-by-pmc-101637519740572.html
22-11-2021||Other||No progress on model roads in 34 wards of MCG in Gurugram||In 34 out of 35 municipal wards, the plan of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to construct model roads is yet to take off. On July 31 this year, during a house meeting of the civic body, councillors and officials unanimously approved an agenda for constructing a model road in each of its 35 municipal wards to improve connectivity in these areas. However, barring ward 31, there has been little to no progress in the remaining 34 wards.Councillors said that MCG officials defer the project whenever they are approached on the matter.“I raised the model road matter during an internal MCG meeting last month. Then I took up the matter with engineering wing officials repeatedly. On each occasion, they either deferred the project or gave a dissatisfactory response,” said Dharmbir, MCG councillor of ward 21.Rama Rathee, councillor of ward 34, said that the model road issue is being ignored by officials.“MCG needs to do a separate meeting with each councillor to finalise a location in their respective wards to build a model road. However, the MCG has not done any separate meeting or initiated a survey on the matter despite repeated requests of councillors. As a result, the project continues to remain on paper,” said Rathee.MCG officials said that they will be taking up the matter with ward councillors next month. “I had decided to take up the matter of model roads last week. But due to illness, I had to defer it. I will be taking up the matter with ward councillors next month and ensure that the finalised designs for model roads cater to all aspects, especially road safety and construction materials that can support a large volume of traffic,” said TL Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.The concept of model roads is not new for the MCG. In November 2018, under the direction of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the MCG had finalised five stretches — Hero Honda Chowk-Huda City Centre stretch via Subhash Chowk, Rajiv Chowk-Railway Station (along Old Railway Road), New Railway Road, Mahavir Chowk to Iffco Chowk, and the Sector 4/9-9A dividing road — for developing them as model roads. Exactly a year later, the MCG decided to turn the Vyapar Kendra-Gold Souk Mall stretch and two stretches around South City-1 into model roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-progress-on-model-roads-in-34-wards-of-mcg-in-gurugram-101637519620276.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Charge sheet reveals shocking collusion of Rohini jail officers and conman||From receiving more than ₹50 lakh every fortnight in bribe, to blocking view of CCTV cameras by placing bottles, curtains and towels -- the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police has made some shocking revelations on how the Rohini Jail officers helped alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar in running a cheating and extortion racket from inside the prison.This comes days after the Supreme Court expressed displeasure at the “sorry state of affairs” in city’s Tihar jail where at least 32 prison officers have been named in an investigation by Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana into how they helped former Unitech promoters, the Chandra brothers, to operate a “secret underground office in south Delhi” and break other prison rules.
22-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: With dip in temperature, mosquito breeding and fresh dengue cases go down||After adding more than 2,500 cases last week, the dengue crisis in Delhi is on a downturn due to the fall in temperatures, which has limited mosquito breeding, doctors and health department officials said.A senior public health official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the nodal agency for vector-borne disease data collection, said studies show a significant dip in mosquito breeding metrics and mosquito density. “The anopheles and aedes aegypti mosquitoes prefer temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius. Once the temperature drops to about 20°C, they become less active in the open and cannot function at temperatures below 10°C,” said the official. The official did, however, voice caution and asked people to be check stagnant water in their vicinity for mosquito breeding. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9.8°C on Sunday, which is three notches below normal.The city has so far registered 5,277 dengue cases (the most since 2015), according to the last update issued by the city’s civic bodies on November 13, and nine fatalities of the vector-borne infection. The municipal corporations release weekly dengue data every Monday, recording numbers for the previous week. Authorities have also logged 2,248 cases in which the infection was “acquired from other states” or patients’ addresses could not be traced.Hospitals also said the dengue caseload has dropped over the past week-and-a-half. Dr SP Byotra, senior consultant at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and chairman of the facility’s department of medicine, said that the number of dengue patients admitted in the hospital has dropped from 70-80 patients three weeks ago to less than 10 patients now. “This can mainly be attributed to environmental factors. But people should continue to take precautions by preventing any water stagnation and wearing full-sleeved clothes,” he said. Dr BK Tripathi, professor in the department of medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said that the number of new suspected dengue cases is down by over half. “Beside natural factors like a delayed monsoon, we have also observed that diseases like dengue and chikungunya follow a two-three year cycle, after which cases rise significantly. The caseload is likely to fall down next year,” he said.Mosquito breeding detection data from infection hotspots shows that a lack of access to piped water is a major contributing factor to the rise in dengue cases. An analysis of 32 hotspots shows that 58.5% aedes aegyti larvae were found in water storage units such as drums, bucket, jeri cans, and 30.2% in peri-domestic units money plant vas, flower pots, bird-pots etc with smaller contributions from over-head tanks (5.4%), sumps (2.1%) and desert coolers (3.8%).Delhi has this year already registered the most dengue cases since 2015. However, the annual count is likely to increase further at the end of the infection, as a large number of pending cases will be settled by that point. Dengue, malaria and chikungunya were mandated as ‘notified diseases’ in mid-October, making it obligatory for all clinics and hospitals to report them to the state government. As a result of this, a large number of hospitals have reported details about previously unrecorded dengue cases. “Before the notification, 36 hospitals under the ‘sentinel surveillance system’ used to share weekly data with the malaria headquarters. But now, corporations are getting data from 180 healthcare facilities. We are still receiving case details of patients from summer season. All these cases will be adjusted in annual cycle which will increase the annual count,” another senior public health official said.Over the last one decade, Delhi has registered a dengue count higher than the current levels in 2010, 2013 and 2015. During the current year, Delhi had predominance of type II strain of the virus which leads to severe symptoms like haemorrhagic fever with shock. The civic bodies have so far confirmed 9 dengue deaths while several cases remain pending before the audit committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-with-dip-in-temperature-mosquito-breeding-and-fresh-dengue-cases-go-down-101637519499800.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation reaches out to labourers and slum dwellers to get jabbed||The Thane Municipal Corporation’s door-to-door vaccination drive has been a boon for elderly people and labourers in several pockets of the city. TMC has now initiated various such outreach programmes, to cater to labourers waiting at various junctions in the city looking for work and also for those staying in slums or remote parts of the city. Dr Prasad Patil, Immunization officer, TMC, said, “As part of our outreach programme, we have reached out to private office spaces, residential societies, construction sites, slum areas and conducted special vaccination drives.” However, doctors suggest that such initiatives should have started earlier to achieve full first dose of vaccination. TMC medical officer said,”Providing vaccination to such reluctant or hesitant populations at the eleventh hour may not suffice.”For 69-year-old Bhagwan Kheratkar, resident of Namdeowadi in Panchpakhadi, it was only this week that he got his first dose of vaccination. Going to get vaccinated without support was a task as he lost part of his right hand and left leg in an accident. His family was also unaware about the door-to-door vaccination and hence despite his wife and two daughters being fully vaccinated Kheratkar was yet to get his first dose. It was only after a vaccination camp that was set up near his home, that the Kheratkar family availed the door-to-door vaccination facility. “People from the TMC had come to inquire if there are any who are still unvaccinated, they said that the nurse would come and provide vaccination. They also got me registered on the Cowin app and by evening I had the certificate for the first dose with me. As I am under a lot of medications due to my condition my family was skeptical about the effects of vaccination on me. Moreover, I do not go out anywhere so I felt it to be alright to delay vaccination,” said Kheratkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-reaches-out-to-labourers-and-slum-dwellers-to-get-jabbed-101637519441248.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to stay shut till further orders, ban on trucks extended||Schools in Delhi will stay closed “until further orders”, the directorate of education said on Sunday in an official order, and added that online teaching-learning activities and CBSE board examinations will be conducted according to the guidelines issued earlier.The Delhi government on Sunday also extended the ban on the entry of trucks, except those carrying essential items till November 26. All Delhi government and affiliated offices will also continue to allow work from home, the directions said.Senior officials of the Delhi environment department clarified that these orders have been extended based on the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas on November 16. However, Sunday’s orders will only apply to Delhi as fresh directions are yet to come from the CAQM.On November 13, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced closure of schools for a week in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution, hours after the Supreme Court slammed the state and central governments and ordered them to take “emergent steps” to curb pollution.At an emergency meeting of the national capital region (NCR) states officials, held on the orders of the Supreme Court, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday said that schools in the NCR will stay shut until further notice, and banned the entry of trucks and construction activities in the region.A senior official of the union environment ministry said a review meeting for the CAQM directions for the NCR is scheduled for November 23. “Those directions that were meant to remain in force till November 21 will stop from today (Sunday). Rest will continue. We will review our directions this week,” the official said.No clarity on constructionWhile fresh orders were issued for restrictions on truck movement and work from home for offices, there was no clarity on whether the construction ban in the city will also continue.“The India Meteorological Department has informed us that the air quality is expected to remain in the poor to very poor category in the coming five days, so looking at the forecasts we have decided to extend the ban on entry of trucks into the Capital, and allowed work from home for Delhi government and affiliated offices till November 26. The proposal was sent to the Lieutenant Governor for approval, and we received the sanction on Sunday,” a senior environment department official said.Uncertainty over schools continuesAfter CAQM’s Tuesday order, schools in Delhi have returned to online classes while uncertainty prevails over the resumption of regular in-person classes. Schools in the Capital were closed for physical classes on account of Covid-19 last March and allowed to reopen in a limited way for students of higher grades earlier this year. They finally reopened for all classes on November 1 but were shut again on November 13 on account of a spike in pollution.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) which has 122 Delhi schools as members, including Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Bal Bharati Public School, Springdales School, Sanskriti School, Delhi Public Schools, Ahlcon International School, and Amity International School, said that schools had been thrust into uncertainty once again.Acharya said parents had been calling the school and enquiring about the resumption of classes since many institutions outside Delhi were resuming classes from Monday. “We are getting a lot of queries from parents since we need to hold exams for students in classes 9 and 11. We don’t know how to conduct the exams at a time when schools have been closed abruptly without any clarity on reopening,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.Former NPSC chairperson Malini Narayanan, who is also the principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar, said parents were disappointed due to the closure of schools and one could not understand the reason behind the closure. “How is it that schools seem to be the cause of pollution all the time? Closure of schools is becoming the answer to every problem. Our parents and children are also disappointed,” said Narayanan.Narayanan said that the closure had set back the school’s academic cycle and affected other services such as transport and canteen facilities. “We were geared up for the resumption of bus services and canteen facility. The school has incurred expenditure on these fronts but now we are unsure about the reopening which is unfortunate,” said Narayanan.Anticipating closure due to cold-wave conditions in winter, she said the closure of schools was never-ending. “In January, schools are asked to shut down due to fog. Due to some reason or the other, the closure has schools seems to be getting extended,” said Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-to-stay-shut-till-further-orders-ban-on-trucks-extended-101637519139780.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC: May take call on shutting few Covid facilities post December||Although the rate of Covid-19 bed occupancy has dropped significantly in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is treading cautiously when it comes to shutting down the facilities erected for the Covid-19 patients. The civic body has said that it will wait till the end of the year to take a final call on shutting a few Covid-19 isolation facilities and treatment centres.According to the BMC dashboard, Mumbai has a capacity to accommodate 17,434 Covid-19 patients in all the hospital beds, out of which 16,273 (93%) of them are vacant and 1,161 are occupied. After the pandemic broke out, the BMC had set up a three tier bed system for the patients, which included Covid Care Centre -1 (CCC-1) located in hotels, halls and lodges, CCC-2 facilities in government centres with available doctors and nurses round-the-clock and Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC).Additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health Suresh Kakani told HT, “We have instructed hospitals that having only one ward would do for now as the cases have started to go down. Earlier, there used to be several Covid-19 wards in BMC and government hospitals and now these resources will be transferred to the non-Covid wards.”He also mentioned that in the Jumbo Centres the number of active beds have also been reduced. Kakani said that each jumbo centre used to have as many as ten wards with 200-250 bed capacity in each of them for Covid patients. Now, there are 250-400 active Covid-19 beds in each of these jumbo centres depending on the demand and situation of the nearby municipal wards.“While we have reduced the bed capacity we are not completely dismantling these facilities right now. The month of December is going to be crucial with Christmas and new year to take place. We will be studying the situation and may take a call at the end of December or early January,” he said.A senior BMC official requesting anonymity said that at the ward level many of the CCC facilities have been shut down temporarily and the available resources are being reserved as a buffer in case there is any need in the future if the fresh Covid-19 wave hits. Earlier this year, the BMC standing committee had passed a resolution to appoint private contractors for maintenance of these beds. Sunita Rajesh Mehta - BJP corporator and a member of BMC Health Committee said that it’s too early to dismantle the available beds of the Covid Care Facilities.“There are still cases coming and many people are yet to complete their vaccination. The BMC has spent a lot of money in tackling the pandemic so far and if things go bad again then they will have to reconstruct these facilities again which will cost more,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/brihanmumbai-municipal-corporation-may-shut-covid-care-centres-post-dec-in-mumbai-101637514342517.html
22-11-2021||Lucknow||Former UP chief secretary advocates reward and punishment for civil servants||Former Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief secretary Alok Ranjan on Sunday advocated a system of reward and punishment for civil servants.He was speaking at the launch of his book, Making a Difference The IAS as a Career, at Jaipuria Institute of Management in Lucknow.“There should be a system of reward and punishment for civil servants to promote excellence and deter corruption,” the former UP chief secretary said.“Currently, there is no system to reward or punish civil servants which affects output. If such a system (of reward and punishment) is developed, where officers are rewarded for their excellence, then most civil servants will strive to give their best,” Alok Ranjan said while answering a question about the working of civil servants.The former UP chief secretary also raises the issue in his book while discussing how decision-making is delayed in the name of following procedures.“I found that officers avoid decision making or take shelter of procedures, queries and asking for more information in an effort to protect themselves. There is a tendency now to keep looking over the shoulder to see how CAG, CBI or CVC will view a decision,” writes Alok Ranjan in the chapter titled The Chief Secretary: Leader of the State Bureaucracy.He went on to suggest, “Corruption is not only to be condemned but acted upon strongly. However, systems need to be evolved which will protect an honest officer who takes decision in public interest.”Alok Ranjan, who served as the chief secretary in the previous Akhilesh Yadav government in Uttar Pradesh, shared his first-hand experience as a civil servant in the book meant for IAS aspirants and those interested in the know-how of bureaucracy. Former bureaucrats Naveen Chandra Bajpai, Atul Gupta, along with Surabhi Modi Sahai and Arvind Mohan, also participated in a discussion moderated by Jayant Krishna, during the launch event that was attended by several retired and serving bureaucrats and other dignitaries.Writing about his years as the chief secretary, Ranjan points out how planning, monitoring and political will can make huge projects come to reality.Sharing details about some of the most ambitious projects during the previous government, the former UP chief secretary writes, “The developers (of Lucknow-Agra Expressway) were talking of a minimum period of thirty-six months to complete this project. It was made clear that no more than twenty-four months would be allowed and this was further reduced to twenty-two months by the chief minister (Akhilesh Yadav) at the time of the launching.”In his book, he also suggests, “Media responses enable you to look at yourself in the mirror. If you take it positively, then both your image and that of the government shall improve. The media reactions represent the voice of the people which must be heard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-uttar-pradesh-chief-secretary-advocates-system-of-reward-and-punishment-for-civil-servants-101637513919472.html
22-11-2021||Delhi||What’s it like to live in the most polluted pockets of Delhi?||For 35-year-old Rajesh Devi, pollution is a clear and present danger but despite knowing that it was taking a toll on her, she continues to travel from her house in Mundka to a factory where she works as a seamstress because, according to her, if she would stop, her family will starve.Dhruv Sinha of Dwarka Sector 8 has confined the movement of his 74-year-old father to a room despite his doctor’s advising a daily walk to keep the septugenarian’s diabetes in control. Every winter, Sinha used to send his father to his native in Bihar to escape high levels of air pollution in the Capital.Thirty-six-year-old Mumtaz, a resident of Bawana, has developed tuberculosis. Her doctor’s say that prolonged exposure to extreme air pollution levels is one of the primary reasons behind her condition.The parents of Dhriti, 7, and Arunima. 12, in Chandni Chowk have told them to give up on their outdoor games, and play video games instead, since October so that they are protected from pollutants in the air.Sagar Raj, a resident of Anand Vihar, says despite his locality consistently coming up in the list of most polluted neighbourhoods, the government authorities have done little over the years to address the issue. Raj says they were completely at the mercy of home air purifiers.Several neighbourhoods in Delhi record much higher levels of pollution than the daily average index value indicates. For instance, between November 1 and 21, Delhi recorded its average AQI in the severe zone (between 400-500) for 8 days, compared to 14 severe days in Anand Vihar and 11 such days in Bawana.This, doctors say, entails heavy costs in terms of health for the residents of these areas. “As doctors, we see the impacts of pollution on people firsthand, especially on the more vulnerable sections like senior citizens and children. In many health issues you might not see an immediate impact of pollution exposure but in more chronic cases, pollution does play a role in deteriorating a patient’s condition,” said Arvind Kumar, founder of Lung Care Foundation and chairperson of the Institute of Chest Surgery, Chest Onco Surgery and Lung Transplantation.Weather forecasters and scientists have time and again pointed out that besides working on long-term and immediate measures to curb pollution levels in the city, the authorities must ensure area-specific plans and monitoring since every neighbourhood profile in the capital is different, and has different kinds of local sources of pollution. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment said, “While Delhi needs to work on a holistic pollution control plan for the entire city, it is also imperative that there is a local action plan as well. This is because the pollution sources in each area are different. The landfill smoke and open garbage burning is not as big a problem in central and south Delhi as it is in the outer districts,” she said.Over the last two weeks, Hindustan Times spoke to residents of Mundka, Bawana, Anand Vihar, Dwarka Sector 8 and Chandni Chowk, which reported the highest pollution levels since Diwali among the 39 areas where air quality is monitoredby central, local and scientific agencies.Most of the residents that HT spoke to mentioned that despite the fact that the authorities know the exact months when pollution levels start rising, only “cosmetic” emergency measures are taken each year instead of a long-term action plan which works round the year.Delhi government initiated several measures such as shutting of schools and construction activities in the city on November 13, a day when the Supreme Court slammed both the state and central governments for doing little to control pollution in Delhi NCR and blaming the farmers for burning stubble, instead.The court also ordered the NCR state governments to hold an emergency meeting, following which on November 17, the federal anti-pollution agency, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) week-long measures across NCR such as shutting of schools, work from home for government staff and banning construction. However, most these steps were being implemented half heartedly, as meteorological factors such as improved wind speed coming to the rescue of the citizens and clearing air of pollutants to some extent.HT finds how is it like to live in five of one of the most polluted residential pockets in the national Capital..Mundka (highest average AQI in November: 493 )Thirty five-year-old Rajesh Devi, who works as a seamstress in the Mundka industrial area, and lives in the area, said if people like her start sitting at home fearing pollution, then her children will starve to death.She said wearing whites is also a privilege for the residents here, because the toxic chemicals from industries, open garbage fires and the dust from unpaved roads, turn them pale yellow soon.“The haze you see, you might find it unusual, but for us this is our everyday reality. You can ask any woman here, after one or two months, the white shirts of the school uniforms turn yellow. To mask it, I dip my kids’ uniforms in neel powder (indigo powder), but my daughter hates that because it makes her shirts blue. But that’s the only way these clothes will last a few years. We do not have the money to keep buying new uniforms every year,” said Devi.Mundka, an industrial area located in west Delhi, is among the 13 pollution hot spots that the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) recognized in 2018. Despite claims of focussed pollution control efforts, this locality has continued to top the list of the most polluted pockets of the Capital. On November 12, when Delhi’s AQI spiked to 471, the average AQI of Mundka had escalated to 493.Naresh Kumar, a Congress leader who is familiar with the locality, said the condition of roads in the rural areas, including Mundka, is extremely bad and this is also adding to the pollution in the area.“The mechanical sweepers and water sprinklers are reserved for the VIPs in Lutyens’ Delhi, the government and the municipal agencies have not bothered to deploy any pollution control measures here. Are the residents here not human beings? Or are their lungs made of steel?” asked Kumar.Dwarka sector-8 (highest average AQI in November: 470)Till Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, Dhruv Sinha, a resident of Dwarka Sector -8, would send his 74-year-old father, Brij Mohan Sinha, to his native town in Bihar every year in winters when the pollution levels in the national capital enters emergency levels, and remain consistently high for weeks.For the past two years, the Brij Mohan has to stay confined to his room with an air purifier despite doctors advising him go for a daily walk to keep his diabetes under control.“My father has not stepped out of the house since Diwali because of the high pollution levels. He gets cranky and depressed staying at home 24x7, because he is used to meeting his friends for evening walks. But our family doctor advised that going out in such high pollution levels might do his health more harm than good,” said Dhruv.Sumegha Sharma, a resident of Dwarka sector-10, and an environmental activist who has been working in the area for over five years now, explained that the pollution levels in Dwarka, despite being a largely residential area, remain high primarily because of various construction projects going on in the sub-city and also because of open waste dumping and burning.“Waste burning is a major pollution source in Dwarka. Since many plots are vacant, people have turned it into convenient garbage dumping points, and every few days it is set on fire after dark. The area is also developing, so many construction projects are ongoing and the AQI here tends to be higher than the rest of the city. Despite very specific issues, which are known to the authorities here, no action has been taken so far,” she said.AQI recordings over the last two days show that even on days when the average air quality of the city has improved to the upper end of very poor category, Dwarka was among the areas that continued to remain in the severe zone. For instance, on Sunday at 2pm, the average AQI of Delhi was 371, considered in the very poor zone on CPCB’s AQI scale, but the pollution levels at Dwarka was 401, in the severe range.Bawana (highest average AQI in November: 483)When 36-year-old Mumtaz moved to Delhi with her husband over 15 years ago, she had hopes of a better life from what she had back in her village in Uttar Pradesh. She planned to set up a small shop of beauty products while her husband earning a steady income from his work.But life took a turn for the worse for her in 2017, when she was diagnosed with tuberculosis. The doctors at the local government hospital told her that the prolonged exposure to the pollutants at the factory where she worked could be one of the reasons behind her disease.“It could be that or someone from the workforce had it and transmitted it to me, because the workspace where we all work is very small. It took me a year to completely recover, but even now I find it difficult to breathe on certain days. I feel tightness in my chest. Now I think that life back in our village was better, at least we could have clean air and drinking water,” said Mumtaz.A study titled, ‘Association Between Ambient Air Pollution and Elevated Risk of Tuberculosis Development’, conducted in Taiwan in 2019 highlighted broad-scale evidence showing the significant association between ambient air pollutants and the development of tuberculosis (TB). The study showed that short and long term exposures to particulate matters with aerodynamic diameters less than 10ug/m3 (PM10) and 2.5ug/m3 (PM2.5), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOX), and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) are highly likely to be associated with the elevated risk of TB.Doctors back home have also highlighted the health risks associated with exposure to such high levels of pollution.Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant of pulmonary and critical care at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, said that there was nearly a 20% increase in the number of patients coming in with exacerbations of their chronic respiratory conditions around Diwali this year.Chandni Chowk (highest average AQI in November: 492)Every day exactly at 5pm, seven-year-old Dhriti and her 12-year-old sister Arunima, leave whatever they are doing and sit before the television set to play video games for an hour. Till October, this was the time that they ran outside to play with their friends in the neighbourhood park, but because of the high pollution levels they have been confined to their house.“We bought them this video game set last year after Covid-19 pandemic, when they could not go outside and play. Children also need some entertainment. For one hour every day, we allow them to play video games, after which they have to go back to their homework or reading a book or any other chore,” said Sumitra Vishwas, Dhriti and Arunima’s mother, a resident of Chandni Chowk’s Gupta Residency.Many like the Vishwas family are concerned that the high pollution levels in the national capital could ruin the health and quality of life for their children. They said children are forced to stay cooped up at home, instead of freely running around and playing with their friends in the park.“You would see many children playing around in the local parks here in the evening, but on days when the pollution levels are high the number of those who venture outside is very less. You do not need any monitoring equipment; you can see the haze in the air. Who would want to subject their children to such toxic air? It is better to keep them safe,” said Mohammad Irshad, a resident of Daryaganj.Senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee officials said the pollution levels around Chandni Chowk are showing a rising trend this season because of multiple development activities going on in the area.“You have the some road repair work going on in Chandni Chowk area, plus in less than five kilometre radius you also have the other construction work going on at the Pragati Maidan,” a senior official said.The children in the area have also become more aware of the need for a partnership between citizens and governments so that Delhi’s air can be improved.“We are taught in school how Delhi is the most polluted capitals in the world. It is definitely the government’s responsibility but everyone in Delhi, including children like us need to do our bit as well. We can plant more trees in our areas and tell our parents to avoid private cars and take the Metro instead. This will be our contribution towards making our own future better,” said 16-year-old Sayali Parashar, a resident of the area.Anand Vihar (highest average AQI in November: 486)Anand Vihar, which located right at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, has been suffering from a locational disadvantage from years. While known as a transport hub, the area also has many residential complexes. The residents in these areas said that several complaints to shift the transport hubs to the outskirts of the Capital have been ignored by the government.“Despite being one of the most polluted locations of the city, no government agency has bothered to take any significant pollution control measures in this area. Recently a smog tower was installed here, but we are not very sure how much filtering of air is happening because of it,” said Sagar Raj a resident of Gitanjali Apartments, which is barely four kilometres away from the Anand Vihar bus terminal.Many older residents in his society prefer to move to their children’ houses to escape the winter pollution, Raj said.“The filters of my air purifiers need to be changed every year, because it gets choked. According to the company representatives, it needs changing only after three-four years in Indian cities. Imagine if the air purifier filters are getting to choked, what this pollution is doing to our lungs,” he added.A senior DPCC official said that they have created a list of localities apart from the 13 major pollution hotspots, where action is being tightened.“We made a list of 150 localities within these 13 hotspots and other areas where there were specific pollution problems. We have ordered the agencies to tackle these problems and submit regular reports to us,” the official said.Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairperson of the north Delhi municipal corporation said that they are making all efforts to minimise pollution levels in the city.“We have started 24x7 patrolling of our areas and special teams have been made for this purpose. We are also following all directions of the pollution monitoring agencies and conducting regular water sprinkling and sweeping of roads to control dust levels,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-it-like-to-live-in-the-most-polluted-pockets-of-delhi-101637513558848.html
22-11-2021||Mumbai||50% of fines collected from Mumbaiites for not wearing masks to go for civic works: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will utilise half of the ₹64.11 crore collected from penalising 3.1 million people for not wearing a mask on development works and health services, among others. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said 50% of this amount is being streamlined to BMC’s common fund, which is used for various development projects and Covid-related expenses. He also said that the remaining 50% of the money is being used to pay the agencies that supply marshals to BMC.“Instead of paying direct salaries to the marshals and their agencies, we have offered half of the fine money to them as payment. At present, there are 12 agencies appointed by BMC and each of them is being given the responsibility of deploying marshals in two municipal wards,” Kakani added.In 2020, BMC deployed its officials for collecting fines and paid 10% of the daily fine amount as an incentive to employees and their departments. “The remaining money is being used in development works across departments just like how we use the money from property tax and water bills,” he said.Besides this, the BMC data also shows an additional ₹13.26 crore has been collected by Mumbai Police from citizens for not wearing masks. Kakani added that 50% of this amount will be transferred to the Mumbai Police Welfare Fund and the remaining is being deposited in BMC’s common kitty.He further said that the idea of imposing penalties was not about generating revenue and the fine amount in Mumbai is much less as compared to the other parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50-of-fines-collected-from-mumbaiites-for-not-wearing-masks-to-go-for-civic-works-101637506540983.html
