24-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra favours physical school for Class 1 to 4||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday cited the state paediatric task force’s recommendations to say it is in favour of starting physical school for Class 1 to 4, and said a final decision is likely to be taken on Thursday, November 25. “The paediatric task force headed by Dr Suhas Prabhu has recommended allowing physical classes of Standards 1 to 4 with social distancing and other such regulations,” Tope said while addressing the media on Wednesday. “Our health department has no objection. Tomorrow is the state cabinet meeting and I think the final decision may be taken then.” The state government has also requested the Central government to allow vaccination of children in the 12-18 age group, he said. “We should start vaccinating children in the 12-18 age group, as these are students from the 5th standard onwards,” Tope said. “They also tend to be out of home more than the younger age group and are therefore more vulnerable. If someone is infected, he can pass on the infection to his grandparents or his parents who may be co-morbid. Vaccination (for this age group) is happening around the world and Maharashtra is ready with the process.” The task force’s recommendation, however, has elicited a mixed response from school principals and parents. “As of now, we cannot say that the pandemic is gone completely. In such a situation, who will take responsibility if kids get infected? Students from class 1 to 4 are too young to be able to follow Covid protocols at all times,” said Dr Arundhati Chavan, president of the United Forum Parents Teachers Association, a Mumbai-based organisation representing interests of schoolchildren and their parents. Chavan added, “Such decisions should not be taken in haste. It would be ideal if we prepare guidelines, ensure proper protocols and start the classes only by next academic year as it is important for students to prepare mentally as well.” School principals HT spoke to after the minister’s announcement expressed their apprehension about physical classes for the primary section. “We can perhaps start with Class 5 or 6, but it may not be a good idea to resume physical classes for primary students,” said Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidya Mandir located at Dadar’s Shivaji Park. “It will also be difficult to implement social distancing measures in the classroom since we do not have enough staff. Younger children face a higher risk, and the effect of wearing masks for longer periods among children also needs to be examined.” Roy said that with almost three-quarters of the academic year completed, there should be no haste to reopen, given the spike in Covid-19 cases globally. Both Europe and the United States are currently witnessing a record surge in cases. At present, schools in rural Maharashtra are allowed to run physical classes for Standards 5 to 12, while in urban areas, physical classes for Standards 8 to 12 commenced on October 4. Some schools and parents said getting students from classes 1 to 4 to attend physical classes will expose them to the risk of contracting the infection, while rooting for reopening classes for students from classes 5 to 7. Schools reported thin attendance prior to Diwali. However, schools that follow the state board received a positive response with most students attending physical sessions as compared to non-state board schools after the Diwali break. At the Andheri-based Rajhans Vidyalaya, a CBSE school, the attendance for physical sessions among Classes 8 to 12 continues to remain thin. “Parents are still apprehensive, with a majority continuing online classes,” said its principal Kala Gangadharan. “In the current scenario, reopening Standards 5 to 7 will also have a mixed response. Some parents and students may be eager, but some will be reluctant. On the other hand, I do not think parents of students from the primary section will be keen to send their children to school as of now.” Health minister Tope said that Maharashtra has been witnessing a decline in new cases, and that active cases have fallen below 10,000. “This has resulted in government easing regulations,” he said, while referring to activities apart from resumption of physical classes. Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson, Members of International Schools Association, an organisation formed by educationists to work with Cambridge international schools in India, said schools can resume twice a week for now. “It has been a long gap and I feel schools for at least Classes 5 to 7 should reopen, followed by primary section also starting gradually,” Aggarwal said. “If children are allowed in parks, malls and public places, then why should they not be allowed in schools? It is important for students and parents to get into the routine of regular classes and also to acclimatise themselves with physical sessions. There has been a big academic gap and it is important for students’ social and academic development that schools reopen at the earliest.” Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents Association, said, “Working parents who find it difficult to manage younger children at home will be eager for physical classes to resume. At the same time, there will be parents that are hesitant to send young children to school. The government should therefore provide an option, and not force any student to attend school.” Sahai added that higher classes should begin in phases. “Classes 5 to 7 should reopen first in urban pockets and all safety protocols should be in place. Classes can resume twice a week initially.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-favours-physical-school-for-class-1-to-4-101637778324710.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||Tap water scheme: Varanasi to be projected as model of rural water supply||LUCKNOW: Under the Har Ghar Nal Yojana (tap water in each household scheme), the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government is going to present Varanasi as a ‘model’ of rural water supply. Sensor-based automatic systems would be put to use for water supply that would be powered by solar energy, officials said. “For the first time in rural areas in north India, water will be supplied with such technology which will also save energy on a large scale,” said Anurag Srivastava, principal secretary, Namami Gange and rural water supply department. “In this project, the use of electricity will be negligible in delivering pure water from taps to the villages. Simultaneously, sensors are being installed to prevent wastage of water so that after filling the tank, the water supply is automatically turned off and there is no wastage of water,” he added. Srivastava said that in the first phase, work had been carried out rapidly in Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions, as a result of which pure water supply would begin in these areas soon. “In the second phase, Har Ghar Nal Yojana has been initiated in 66 districts of the state. The work in Varanasi is being carried out expeditiously with the laying of pipelines in many areas. So far, the laying of pipelines in as many as 20248 houses in 69 villages has almost been completed. The progress of the scheme is also being continuously monitored by the government,” he added. A target has been set to provide tap water connections to nearly 3,48,505 families of 1296 villages by 2022. In addition, already sanctioned schemes in about 125 villages of Varanasi had been made operational. Through this, clean water was being delivered to 22,079 households, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tap-water-scheme-varanasi-to-be-projected-as-model-of-rural-water-supply-101637778264834.html
24-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal cops summon Tripura CM’s OSD, say will arrest him if he is a no-show||KOLKATA: Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb’s officer on special duty (OSD) Sanjay Mishra has been ordered to appear before a Kolkata police officer investigating a case registered against him for allegedly spreading wrong data on Covid positivity rate, officials aware of the development said on Wednesday. Mishra has been summoned to the Narkeldanga police station on Thursday.Mishra has been named in an FIR registered on November 3 that accuses him of violating seven sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act 2005. He received the summons via email on Wednesday. It asked Mishra to appear before the investigating officer, sub-inspector S Bandopadhyay, by noon.Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act says: “Whoever makes or circulates a false alarm or warning as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year or with fine.” It is alleged that Mishra last month uploaded some data sheets and put out a post on Twitter that said the Covid positivity rate in Kolkata, according to the Union health ministry, was 7.74% on October 27.Accusing Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders of spreading propaganda, Mishra wrote,”….Your party is spreading violence and communalism, that’s enough we don’t want you all to spread #Covid.” According to the data uploaded on the West Bengal health department’s portal, which is shared with the Centre every day, the number of active cases in Kolkata on October 27 was 50 and four people died on that day. The population of the city was 4,496,694 during the 2011 census. A Kolkata Police officer, who did not want to be identified, said the case was lodged on the basis of a complaint lodged by a resident of Narkeldanga in the city’s eastern suburban region.The summons sent to Mishra said, “…..it is revealed during investigation that there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain the fact and circumstances from you.” Charges slapped against the officer under the IPC include forgery for the purpose of cheating, defamation, making assertions that cause religious disharmony and creating a public nuisance that causes injury or annoyance. “Non-compliance of this notice may result in your arrest as per law,” said the summons which made news a day ahead of the Tripura civic body elections in which the Trinamool Congress is contesting many seats with an aim to form a base in the state before the 2023 assembly polls. Bharatiya Janata Party’s chief spokesperson in Bengal, Samik Bhattacharya, said he had no idea why Mishra was charged. No TMC leader commented on the case. Mishra was not available for comment. A senior Tripura government official, who did not want to be identified, said he did not know whether Mishra will appear before the Kolkata police on Thursday.“He (Mishra) didn’t visit West Bengal in the past few months. This is strange. How can a case under Disaster Management Act be lodged against him there?” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cops-summon-tripura-cm-s-osd-say-will-arrest-him-if-he-is-a-noshow-101637777905369.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Platform ticket price at Mumbai's CSMT, other stations reverted to ₹10||The Central Railway on Wednesday announced to restore the price of platform tickets to ₹10 at Maharashtra's Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, LTT, Thane, Kalyan, and Panvel stations as the restrictions related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has further eased. The platform ticket price was increased to ₹50 in a bid to limit the crowd on railway platforms amid rising Covid cases. However, with a sustained decline in new Covid cases, the Central Railway has decided to revert the platform ticket price from ₹50 to ₹10 at CSTM, LTT and other suburban railway platforms. The order will come into effect from November 25."In light of the easing of restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided by the competent authority to revert the platform ticket price from ₹50 to ₹10 at CSMT, DR, LTT, TNA, KYN and PNVL stations with effect from 25 November," the Central Railway notification said."In view of the above, all concerned booking staff and supervisors are advised to acknowledge the changes and act accordingly," it added.The ministry of railways recently decided to discontinue Covid-19 special trains and restore the number, fare and categorisation of regular timetabled trains which are presently operating as Mail/Express Special and Holiday Special due to the pandemic. The Railway Board also requested CRIS to make necessary changes in the software for train bookings and other railways-related services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/platform-ticket-price-at-mumbai-s-csmt-other-stations-to-10-101637773576120.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||High Court bench in Agra: Lawyers burn effigy of UP minister||A section of lawyers burnt the effigy of state cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh on civil court premises here on Wednesday a day after Singh said that there was no proposal under consideration for high court bench in Agra.Hemant Bhardwaj, secretary for Action Committee for Establishment of High Court Bench in Agra, said the lawyers have also decided to go to Jewar on Thursday to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Prime Minister will perform the bhoomi pujan of the Noida International Airport (NIA) at Jewar on November 25.“Siddharth Nath Singh is an MLA from Prayagraj West and his thinking is confined to the assembly seat. Singh should be removed from cabinet and someone with wider vision be named as spokesperson for state government,” said senior lawyer in Agra, Devendra Vajpayee. Singh had on Tuesday said there was no proposal under consideration for high court bench in western Uttar Pradesh. “It is unfortunate that a minister is confined to his assembly seat in vision and is ignoring the problems faced by litigants travelling for kilometers for seeking justice,” said Achal Sharma, another senior lawyer in Agra.With assembly elections 2022 approaching, the long pending issue has been raised once again. The lawyers had also met Union minister for law and justice Kiren Rijuju who was in Agra last Sunday. They found response from minister in their favour and were also optimistic as Union minister of state for law and justice prof SP Singh Baghel is an MP from Agra. The lawyers are also pressing for compliance of recommendations by Justice Jaswant Singh Commission which had named Agra as appropriate place for bench in western Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-bench-in-agra-lawyers-burn-effigy-of-up-minister-101637776345204.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Stage set for Prime Minister Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida airport||Many senior leaders and officials, such as Uttar Pradesh minister for health, family and child welfare Jai Pratap Singh along with additional chief secretary SP Goyal, visited Jewar in Greater Noida on Wednesday to oversee the preparations ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Thursday, when he will be laying the foundation stone of the Noida international airport, which will come up along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. Officials said the foundation stone laying ceremony is being organised as the biggest event in the state that will be attended by both Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The Noida International Airport Limited, the special purpose vehicle looking after the development of the airport, has arranged for at least 75,000 chairs, seven parking lots, four helipads and prepared a ground— measuring 1.25 lakh square metres — with seating arrangements to accommodate a gathering of nearly 200,000 people. The agency undertaking the preparations has made provisions for two VVIP lounges in the front row. Behind this is the space for media persons and senior party leaders, followed by seating arrangements for the general public who can also listen to the speeches of the leaders on big screens that will be set up in various parts of the venue. BJP workers from Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and other nearby districts will be occupying the agricultural fields of Ranhera and Rohi village on Jewar-Bulandshar road. A day before the event, workers were busy laying bricks on footpaths and clearing bushes along the Jewar-Bulandshahr link road. The stretch will later be converted into a runway for Noida international airport, said officials. “To my knowledge, it is the biggest event that the UP government is organising. Noida international airport is such a big infrastructure project, one that will create huge job opportunities for everyone in this region. We have taken adequate measures for a successful event and everything is in place,” said Goyal, who was seen taking stock of details along with Singh and NIAL officials.On October 20 this year, Modi had laid the foundation stone of Kushinagar international airport in Uttar Pradesh. “Now, he will inaugurate Noida international airport that is slated to be completed by 2024,” said the additional chief secretary.“Noida international airport will be bigger when compared to the one in Kushinagar, because Noida is closer to the national capital and has many big cities around, such as Ghaziabad and Faridabad. Hence, the passenger influx here will be more than that at the Kushinagar facility,” said Goyal.“The work on the airports in Kushinagar and Ayodhya is going on in full swing. Jewar airport will be the fifth international airport in Uttar Pradesh, boosting growth in the state,” said Goyal.Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police Alok Singh on Wednesday also briefed police personnel about the protocols to be followed for the smooth conduct of the programme on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stage-set-for-prime-minister-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-noida-airport-101637776286109.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Pune neurosurgeons undergo training to learn new technique to deal with brain tumours||To avoid the damage to areas in the vicinity of the brain during a brain removal surgery, 39 neurosurgeons from Pune attended a training conducted by Prof Charlie Teo, a neurosurgeon from Australia, at a private hospital. The doctors believe that this new technique will lower the chances of collateral damage to a patient undergoing brain surgery from 10-80%, to just nominal. Tumour removal surgeries require great precision and even the slightest error can paralyse the patient, or redefine the person’s abstract qualities. The technique aims to provide a more precise scan of the brain to understand the networks connecting the brain which helps minimise the damage to a person’s physical and mental being, post operation. Dr Sushil Patkar, neurosurgeon from Poona Hospital where the event was conducted, said, “This is a nascent technology which is currently being used in Australia and it is called ‘Quicktome Omniscent Neuro Technology’ which promises to minimise the damage to the parallel portions of the brain and for maximal and safe resection of difficult brain tumours.” Explaining the brian tumour removal process he said, “It needs exact precision to remove a tumour which if not done accurately can damage the other functioning areas of the brain. It is easier to identify the areas in which parts of the brain perform the physical functions, however, it is very difficult to know the networks that perform the abstract functions which are the highest functions of the brain. There is no defined centre where these fibres exist for these kinds of function. Even if we avoid these centres in case of tumours sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between the healthy part of the brain and the tumour, and sometimes the tumour has engulfed certain healthy parts of the brain, which if removed completely could damage the person’s life in an unexpected manner; for example things that made the person happy before might not make him/her happy post-surgery, or the same drive towards life may not exist even though the person is completely ‘healthy’.” This new technique helps to scan the brain and finds all the possible networks that also include these abstract networks. Dr Patkar said, “We have to send an MRI scan of the brain via the cloud and then identify the networks of the brain depending on which we can either change the entry point or even provide a detailed option to the patient and family regarding the possible effects it could have on the person, so that the family could take the call on whether or not to undergo the surgery. In case of cancerous tumours we can only prolong the inevitable because it is not curable, but in case of other tumours such new technologies can give better options.” However, being a new technology there is no guarantee and it is still developing. “The technology would cost anywhere in the region of $60,000 dollars per year which eventually will be passed on to the patient which would be charged depending on the number of operations a year and other charges. This is why neurosurgeons in the city came together to look at it and decide if they could share the technology and the cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-neurosurgeons-undergo-training-to-learn-new-technique-to-deal-with-brain-tumours-101637776284862.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Imported liquor consumption expected to double after excise duty reduction in Maharashtra||While the consumption of imported liquor is already rising, the Maharashtra government last week slashed excise duty on imported liquor from 300% to 150% (50%) in a bid to further boost the share of imported liquor in overall consumption while curtailing smuggling and dealing in illicit liquor. The move will further increase imported liquor’s share in overall consumption, according to the International Spirits & Wines Association of India (ISWAI), an apex body of the premium AlcoBev (alcoholic beverages) sector.State excise officials said that while the government currently earns a revenue of about ₹100 crore from the sale of imported scotch annually, this is expected to increase to ₹250 crore as the sale of imported scotch is expected to go up from 100,000 to 250,000 bottles while also curbing smuggling and bootlegging.State excise superintendent Santosh Zagade said, “Since Maharashtra state excise was charging three times more excise on foreign liquor, people were buying it in other states like Delhi and Karnataka. Hence, Maharashtra has taken this step to stop this.”Meanwhile, the ISWAI said that the move will bring price rationalisation and parity with other states, thereby boosting state excise revenues from this segment. It will also significantly curtail the incentive for dealing in spurious/illicit liquor and help curb smuggling of alcohol products from other states while benefitting consumers in Maharashtra in terms of access to genuine products.Nita Kapoor, chief executive officer, ISWAI, said, “These industry-friendly, progressive, policy changes will improve tax compliance, eliminate the grey market and inter-state product smuggling, thereby increasing the state’s revenue collection. Consumers can now expect a reduction in prices and legitimate access to better quality global brands.” Emphasising on the growing consumer preference for premium global brands, Kapoor said, “Indian consumers are increasingly opting for ‘bottled in origin’ (BIO) and geographical indication (GI) tagged niche products which carry a stamp of premium quality. The Maharashtra government has taken cognisance of the emerging growth trends of BIO.”Whereas Shivaji Khandve, president, Pune District Wine Merchants’ Association, said that it will take two months for the new pricing to come into effect though sales of BIO will definitely increase. Thus, it might have an impact on the prices of imported goods by around 15 to 20%. He added that there will be a revision in the MRP formula as well. “Now if companies show higher production costs and book profits, naturally the impact of reduction in excise duty will be less,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imported-liquor-consumption-expected-to-double-after-excise-duty-reduction-in-maharashtra-101637775924830.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Salisbury Park residents finally get new garden; inauguration on November 25||The residents of Salisbury Park have won an almost 20-year-old battle, with the garden that they fought so long for finally to be inaugurated on Thursday. The new garden spread on 3.5 acres lies adjacent to the old Gool Poonawala garden at Salisbury Park, which is one of Pune’s upmarket areas. It all started in 2004 when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued a notification to de-reserve a plot of land originally earmarked for a garden and handed it over to a local builder. About 300 residents organised a rally in protest under the banner ‘Salisbury Park Residence Forum’ along with local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Shrinath Bhimale and filed a case in court which went on for several years.In 2015, the Bombay high court directed the PMC to pay ₹18 crore to the district administration and take possession of the land. As the original owner did not object to the PMC acquiring the land, the civic body completed the legal formalities, took possession of the land, and began developing a garden on the plot that was earlier used to dump garbage in 2016. Even as work on the garden began, the PMC challenged the increased compensation amount which by subsequent HC ruling was referred to a larger bench in 2018 and further increased to ₹76 crore. The case is still pending in the Supreme Court.Rajendra Thorat, deputy engineer of the land acquisition department of the PMC, said, “The PMC challenged the increased compensation amount of ₹71 crore calculated and decided by the Pune district administration. The case is in the Supreme Court and the hearing is complete. The verdict is expected in the second week of January 2022.”With the garden having been completed this year, the PMC plans to inaugurate it at the hands of BJP state president Chandrakant Patil on Thursday.Faizal Poonawala of Salisbury Park Residence Forum said that the garden has been developed very well and that all residents were involved in its planning and design. “We were involved along with corporator Bhimale in selecting the design. Lt Col (rtd) Dr Vedprakash Taneja guided us. The Salisbury Park Residence Forum was formed later and joined Dr Taneja. Originally, the garden land was open and being used as a garbage dump. That’s when we took up cudgels and shaped public opinion. The PMC was not willing to pay compensation to the builder though the land was reserved for a garden as per the development plan (DP).”The garden has been developed on the lines of a topiary, with the trees and shrubs styled into shapes of animals and cartoons. There is a separate area for exercise with gym bars, a skating rink, flower beds, an amphitheatre and more.Bhimale said, “It is a victory for the residents of Salisbury Park as their dream has finally come true. I am happy I have been a part of it and helped them fulfil their dream.”Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent of the garden department, said that the PMC has completed all the work and that the garden is ready to be opened to the public. “We spent around ₹2.50 crore on developing the garden. Architect Avani Lodha from Aseem Gokarn Harwansh (AGH) Landscapes planned the garden. The entire garden area is now more than six-acre (Poonawala garden and new Salisbury garden).”Timeline1966 - Development plan – plot reserved for the garden2004 - PMC de-reserved garden reservation2004 - Salisbury Park residents file case in high court2014 - Local corporator stages andolan in PMC to pay money to the builder2015 - Bombay high court orders PMC to restore reservation and acquire land2016 - PMC pays ₹18 crore to the builder but builder claims ₹71 crore compensation as per the district collector award order. PMC starts work on the garden2018 - PMC challenges Pune district administration for award – case pending in Supreme CourtNovember 2021 - garden completed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/salisbury-park-residents-finally-get-new-garden-inauguration-on-november-25-101637775504667.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||GST evaders of Prayagraj zone under scanner of tax department||Over two dozen traders in Prayagraj zone have come under the radar of commercial tax department for allegedly evading goods and services tax (GST) worth several lakhs, said an official. Two teams of the department are collecting details of such traders in Prayagraj, Pratapgrah and Kaushambi districts, said the official of the department without wanting to be named.The official said the accounts of these traders are carefully being looked into by the department and the details are being prepared both by the special investigative branch (SIB) and the mobile squad of the department. The department is collecting details of purchase and sale data and transactions of bank accounts of these traders following which the GST that has to be deposited by them is being calculated and compared to what the individual firms have deposited in the state exchequer, the official said.The action is part of statewide exercise being initiated to increase the overall revenue of the state.The recent raid at a mobile shop owner of the Indira Bhavan of the posh Civil Lines locality too is being seen as a part of this exercise. It is alleged that this mobile shop owner had sold goods worth ₹70 crore but had paid tax of less than ₹1 lakh thus evading tax of around ₹30 lakh. The official said after scrutiny of documents and submission of evidences, action will be taken against these traders. The teams are working out the amount of tax collected from such traders who are into the business of iron, LED products, fridge, washing machine and sales of other electronics goods. Besides, hardware dealers, mobiles shop owners etc too are also under watch. The team suspects that these traders may have individually evaded taxes between ₹10 and ₹40 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gst-evaders-of-prayagraj-zone-under-scanner-of-tax-department-101637775264648.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Pune developers booked for cheating, forgery||The Pune city police, on Wednesday, booked developers from the city and two others, including the complainant’s late father, for forgery and cheating of the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA).A complaint was lodged by Rahul Tikone, husband of Pune corporator Sangita Tikone, and the man who has submitted ownership papers of the land.“I have no idea why my late father has been also booked. He died in 2013 and before his death, he had handed the power of attorney to the developers. However, after his death, in 2018, we got to know that the land was listed in the SRA scheme. Upon digging a little using Right to Information (RTI) we found that the developers had forged a land sale deed of the piece of land in Bibwewadi. That is not possible as there are multiple owners of that land registered since 2010 and none of us was approached for the sale,” said Tikone.Senior police inspector Sunil Zaware of Bibwewadi police station is investigating the case but could not be reached for comment.A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (used forged as genuine) and others of the Indian Penal Code at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-developers-booked-for-cheating-forgery-101637775084559.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||Drop in min temp, MeT issues cold wave alert for UP||The minimum day temperature across Uttar Pradesh dropped closer to the 10-degrees Celcius mark on Wednesday and the meteorological department issued a warning of an expected cold wave, across the state, over the weekend.As per the MeT department data, the early morning temperature in Lucknow dropped to 11.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which is a degree below normal. The average minimum temperature recorded across UP on Wednesday was recorded at 10.4 degrees, which is two degrees below normal.The drop in temperatures was more over West UP as compared to East UP. “The drop in average day temperature has been constant across November and is expected to go down further in the next fortnight. The minimum temperature falls by around 7 degrees which has been recorded this month,” said JP Gupta, director, state meteorological department.According to an adverse weather warning issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday, North India will experience a cold wave over the coming weekend when night temperatures in many parts are expected to drop to around 8 degrees in UP. Based on the warning, the state MeT department has issued an alert to all districts, directing them to make arrangements to counter the effects of adverse weather.The state government has also released funds and chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed district magistrates to distribute blankets and arrange for a bonfire for people living on the margins of society. While the drop in temperatures will affect human activities, agriculture experts said it would benefit the Rabi crop, especially wheat and mustard.The drop in temperatures will also impact air pollution levels in the state. Experts suggest that the temperature drop will make the state air pollution across UP worse in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/drop-in-min-temp-met-issues-cold-wave-alert-for-up-101637774964631.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Suburban rail to be shut for up to 72 hrs in December for line work||MUMBAI In order to complete the construction of the fifth and sixth railway lines between Thane and Diva railway stations, the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) and the Central Railway will undertake railway blocks starting from 18 hours to 72 hours on the city’s suburban railway network. The blocks are expected to be taken in December.The railway blocks will be operated on different railway sections between Thane and Diva in order to commission the new railway lines and undertake the remaining construction work. To undertake a major railway block of 72 hours, permission is required from the railway board; the apex body of all zonal railways.“Discussions with the Central Railway on the block sections have been held and permissions have been sought,” said a senior MRVC official.The Central Railway has stated that minimum inconvenience to passengers will be done and the state government will be asked to operate additional buses during the block periods.“We have raised a few technical difficulties with the MRVC regarding the blocks. We are attempting to minimise passenger inconvenience,” said a Central Railway official.The Central Railway in September took a 10-hour block between Kalwa and Mumbra railway stations for the construction work of the fifth and sixth railway lines.The fifth and sixth railway lines project between Thane and Diva is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP 2B), which got approval in 2008.Once completed, the new railway lines will enable segregation of outstation and local trains on the Central Railway till Kalyan. 100 new local train services will be introduced between Central Railway mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations after the railway line is commissioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suburban-rail-to-be-shut-for-up-to-72-hrs-in-december-for-line-work-101637774604619.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||Kalidas Samman for Lucknow’s Anil Rastogi||Veteran actor and general secretary, Darpan theatre group, Dr Anil Rastogi, has been conferred with the prestigious Kalidas Samman for the year 2019, by the Madhya Pradesh government.The department of culture, government of Madhya Pradesh gives this award for contributions in fields like literature, culture, cinema and social harmony.For his contribution in theatre, culture and acting, Dr Rastogi also got a cash prize of ₹2 lakh. The veteran actor has acted in many movies and plays.Dr Rastogi thanked the government of Madhya Pradesh for recognising his talent and contribution in the field of theatre. He said such awards infuse new energy in him to do better work in the days to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kalidas-samman-for-lucknow-s-anil-rastogi-101637774426373.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||₹28.20 crores penalty for discharging sewage: NGT panel to BMC||A six-judge bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday ordered the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to deposit within three months an environmental penalty of ₹28.20 crores to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for discharging raw sewage into the city creeks, rivers and drains.“The amount may be spent on restoration of the environment by making a restoration plan to be approved and monitored by the CPCB. The CPCB may decide on the plan submitted within one month of such submission,” reads the order by NGT chaired by justice Adarsh Kumar Goel.The order is subject to the orders of the Supreme Court which is pending. BMC had filed a civil appeal before the Supreme Court in March, seeking a stay on the NGT’s October 2020 directions -- which were the result of earlier public interest litigation by NGO Vanashakti. The civic body had also attempted to stay a subsequent execution application that Vanashakti filed before NGT in June, after observing little action by the municipality toward complying with the Tribunal’s orders. The SC however not only allowed Vanashakti’s execution application to proceed but clarified that the municipal commissioner himself will have to satisfy the NGT of compliance with its directionsWednesday’s NGT order states that the civic body is liable to pay environmental damage for discharge of untreated sewage water into the water bodies at the rate of Rs. 4.25 crores per month till bio-remediation or phytoremediation measures are taken by the authorities concerned. “If remediation or treatment of the water of sewage water is taken, it will be reduced at the rate of Rs. 5 lakhs per month per drain systematically. The State PCB (pollution control board) is directed to calculate and do the needful according to the law from time to time,” stated the order.An additional ₹10 lakhs per month per Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) is to be deposited with CPCB for not rectifying operational deficiencies of the existing STPs that is leading to untreated sewage being discharged into water bodies.“With regard to the situation where works concerning STP, sewerage network and its connectivity not yet started, the Mumbai Municipal Corporation has to pay an environmental compensation at the rate of Rs. 10 lakhs per month per STP, sewerage network and its connectivity after 31.12.2020 for the delay in setting up of the same. It will be open to the Municipal Corporation to recover the said amount from the erring officers/contractors,” reads the order.The tribunal has directed CPCB to examine all STPs, CETPs within the Mumbai Municipal Corporation and calculate the amount of environmental compensation as per law and proceed to recover the amount and communicate to NGT within two weeks.The bench has directed the civic body to install nets in sewage stormwater discharge drains to stop sewage solid waste from entering the sea along with the solid waste, and ensure that no untreated water is being discharged into the sea level. It also directed BMC to install mobile public toilets after identifying areas close to beaches where open defecation is rampant. “We are thankful to the NGT for upholding the principle of “polluter pays”. Despite being the richest municipal corporation in Asia, the civic body for decades flouted the environmental laws and laws of pollution for which they have been hauled up now. We are hopeful that this penalty will serve as a reminder for all municipal corporations that are following the same path as BMC,” said D Stalin, petitioner, Vanashakti, a non-government organisation.BoxOther directionsBMC should ensure mangrove area is kept plastic-free zone and recommended to install trash boom or trash trap for collecting floating plastic and other wastes & its disposal.All sewage should be treated at the source and then release into Creek via streams.Natural steams used as sewage canals should be stopped immediately and restoration should be carried out to recover the beauty of the mangroves of Mumbai and adjoining Thane District.Pipelines that are directly releasing domestic sewage in the water bodies, creeks and wetland without treatment must be removed or connected to the STP. There should not be any water logging during the rainy season, and the sewage line or water connection which are discharging the water from the city must be regularly monitored so that there should not be any blockage in the flow of the water.Chief Secretary of Maharashtra may set up an appropriate monitoring mechanism at the state level specifying accountability of nodal authorities not below the secretary level and ensuring appropriate adverse entries in the ACRs of erring officers. Monitoring at the state level must take place on a fortnightly basis and a record of progress maintained. The Chief Secretary may have an accountable person attached in his office for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2820-crores-penalty-for-discharging-sewage-ngt-panel-to-bmc-101637774425205.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s first death anniversary observed in Lucknow||The city observed the first death anniversary of Padma Bhushan, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, on Wednesday. Other than a series of programmes organised to pay tribute to the Islamic scholar, a reformer and academician, clerics said “Maulana Sahab will be missed.”Unity College observed the death anniversary of the Maulana, who was the founder of the college. Students took part in various cultural programmes and paid tribute to the great scholar. “Other than paying tribute to Maulana Sahab, the alumni of the college also distributed blankets to the college staff and other faculty members to pay tribute in their own way,” said Najmul Hasan Rizvi, secretary, Unity College.Other clerics too observed his first death anniversary and said that “Kalbe Sadiq would be missed. It is not only Muslims but Kalbe Sadiq was such a great personality that he will be missed by people irrespective of caste and religion,” said Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary, All India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB). He said Sadiq’s demise was a huge loss to the state capital.Maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s son, Kalbe Sibtain Noori, said that he is thankful to the people of Lucknow for showing so much respect and love for his father.On November 9, this year, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, the former vice-president of the All Indian Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), was awarded the Padma Bhushan, posthumously. The award was received by Kalbe Sibtain Noori. The senior cleric breathed his last on November 24, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maulana-kalbe-sadiq-s-first-death-anniversary-observed-in-lucknow-101637774129545.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh says he is in Chandigarh, briefly appears on Telegram||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Wednesday said that he is currently in Chandigarh and is planning to visit Mumbai soon, news agency PTI reported. Singh did not clarify whether he would surrender before the police or court. The former top cop was granted protection from arrest by the Supreme Court.Singh was declared a ‘proclaimed offender’ by a court in Mumbai and is also facing several extortion cases in Maharashtra. The PTI report also said that Param Bir Singh appeared on social messaging app, Telegram, but later deleted his account from the app. He did not report to work since May following his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner.He made allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. His transfer came after Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze was arrested following the recovery of explosives near Reliance chairman and industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia' and his connection to the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.A Mumbai court earlier on Tuesday pasted an absconding notice outside Param Bir Singh's Juhu flat. His lawyer alleged that Singh was told to take back his complaint against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. “Former Mumbai CP Parambir Singh has appealed to the court that he is being victimised since he has written to the CBI. Sanjay Pandey told him that if he takes back the complaint against the then home minister then things will settle for him,” Puneet Bali, Param Bir Singh’s advocate, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“He was told if he did not do it, then he would face cases. So listening to our detailed arguments, the Supreme Court has given notice to CBI and Maharashtra and provided interim protection to him from arrest,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-says-he-is-in-chandigarh-briefly-appears-on-telegram-101637772729384.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||LED lights to illuminate Cuffe Parade footpaths soon||A ray of hope for the residents of Cuffe Parade, apprehensive to walk at night- as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) along with the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking will soon set up a unique LED lighting system in the stretch, which will illuminate pavements and the road. The officials said that the project is being funded and sanctioned by the BMC while it is being executed by the engineers of BEST. A senior officer from BEST informed that the planning work was being done by them which was later authorised by the BMC. “We have set up 30 poles adjoining the road at Captain Prakash Pethe Marg in Cuffe Parade. Our primary objective was to set up 41 poles however some of these poles couldn’t be set up as metro works were ongoing,” the official said. The project is being proposed and backed by BJP corporators Harshita Narwekar and Makarand Narwekar. Speaking to HT, Harshita said that residents approached her urging them to take action about the pavements which remains dark after sunset and to make them more pedestrian-friendly. “All of the existing lights are directed towards the road which is why the pavements are dark and people feel apprehensive to walk on them,” Harshita shared. Makarand Narwekar said that these lights will be implemented throughout the entire ‘A’ ward in a phased manner. “I don’t think that this unique kind of lighting exists anywhere else in the city. Illuminating the footpaths will not just encourage pedestrians to walk on them which will also improve the flow of traffic,” said Makarand. A resident - Haresh Hathiramani who has been living in this area since 1975 said that these lights were much needed as there have been cases of theft and robbery earlier in the Cuffe Parade area. “Being a commercial district, most of the areas in the entire Cuffe Parade neighbourhood becomes deserted at night, due to which there have been frequent cases of robbery and theft before,” said Hathiramani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/led-lights-to-illuminate-cuffe-parade-footpaths-soon-101637772024666.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||In absence of CM, Ajit Pawar may chair cabinet meeting||Mumbai With chief minister Uddhav Thackeray taking more than the expected time to recover from his surgery, the state cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Thursday is likely to be chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. According to officials privy to the developments, Thackeray is expected to get discharged from the hospital in the next few days and resume work online from his home by next week. He will resume work from the office only after a few days of rest. Officials from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that the CM is thinking about attending the cabinet through video conference for some time in the beginning. He may do so on Thursday, but the decision about the same was not taken till evening on Wednesday. In his absence, meetings of state cabinet could not be held, while a few major decisions are yet to be taken. “The files and proposals related to major decisions are cleared by the CM from the hospital, but some decisions have been put on the backburner. The decision about the venue and the date of the winter session of the state legislature is yet to be taken. Besides, reopening of schools for Classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and 5 to 7 in urban areas is also expected to be taken in the cabinet on Thursday,” said an official from the CMO.Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the CM will attend the state cabinet meeting through video conference. “After his surgery, he has been recovering very well. Doctors have advised him to complete the physiotherapy sessions before resuming work. They will take a call on his discharge depending on the response to the physiotherapy,” he said. A senior Shiv Sena leader said that the CM is likely to get discharged in the next couple of days. “His physical presence in the office is unlikely for the next few weeks. He has been advised against sitting or standing for longer periods. There will be restrictions on his travelling too. He will have to go through physiotherapy for about two hours every day,” the leader added.A section of the ruling party leaders is also of the opinion that the CM should have given charge of his post to either his deputy or any senior Shiv Sena minister. Leaders from Sena said that the blood clotting in Thackeray’s spine delayed his recovery or else, he could have resumed work now.If Ajit Pawar chairs the state cabinet meeting on Thursday, it would be the second such instance in the two years of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. Pawar had chaired the state cabinet early last year to take the decision of recommending Thackeray’s name to governor BS Koshyari for the nomination to legislative council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-absence-of-cm-ajit-pawar-may-chair-cabinet-meeting-101637771304976.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||UPERC sets ball rolling for changes in regulations on filing of tariff petitions||The UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Wednesday set the ball rolling for the changes in the Multi-Year Tariff (MYT) for Distribution and Transmission Regulations, 2019 by holding a public hearing on the proposed amendments that seek to penalise discoms for delayed filing of their annual tariff petitions. UPERC chairman RP Singh, who presided over the event, said the commission had heard viewpoints of all stakeholders. He also said it will make changes in the regulations soon by introducing penalties in the licencee’s ARR to promote timely filing of the multi year tariff petition and to allow passing on of such benefits to consumers. The proposed amendments also seek to penalise discoms for not filing a true-up petition within six months from the finalisation of the audited accounts of the corresponding year. The issue of the alleged nexus between builders and power engineers in Noida and Ghaziabad, however, dominated the proceedings during the public hearing by UPERC. Raising the issue, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma said recent probes have established that many power engineers in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad (allegedly) intentionally provided financial benefits to builders while issuing power connections to the apartments. “These are the hapless consumers who have to pay for corruption because any loss that discoms suffer on account of corruption is finally passed on to consumers in the shape of higher tariff,” he said. He demanded the commission do away with the provision that allows return of equity (income) to the tune of ₹2200 crore to discoms every year Verma also demanded that no carrying cost be passed on to a discom if it did not finalise true-up petition within six months of auditing of the accounts. He laid emphasis on the need for the CAG audit of discoms’ accounts to know their actual income and deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uperc-sets-ball-rolling-for-changes-in-regulations-on-filing-of-tariff-petitions-101637771004678.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Woman, her boyfriend arrested for sexually assaulting minor cousins in Kalyan||Kolsewadi police in Kalyan have arrested a 23-year-old woman and her boyfriend for sexually assaulting her cousins aged 14 and 17 years. The woman sexually assaulted the 14-year-old boy and then her boyfriend assaulted the 17-year-old girl.After three months of repeated sexual assaults, the siblings gathered courage to approach the cops who booked the duo under the relevant sections of POCSO Act.The woman stays near her cousin’s house in Kalyan and was having an affair with the 26-year-old man. The police informed that she, however, used to call her cousin home when alone and would touch him inappropriately and assault him if he protested. She also allegedly threatened to file a case against him if he told his ordeal to anyone else. She also called his elder sister when her boyfriend was around. An officer from Kolsewadi police said, “The two survivors who went through the assault for almost three months finally told their father about it. On Tuesday, the father approached us and we filed a case and arrested the duo. We have added POSCO (Sections 8, 12,17, 18) and IPC 354 Sections for outraging modesty and sexual assault. The siblings are disturbed due to the continuous harassment and we will ensure they receive counselling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-her-boyfriend-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-cousins-in-kalyan-101637770165173.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Byculla Zoo footfall reaches pre-Covid times||Almost after a month of its reopening, the Byculla Zoo (Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan) saw a footfall of 14k visitors last week- making the count to the pre-Covid-19 times. What’s drawing Mumbaiites to the zoo are penguin chicks, tigers and hyenas, according to the zoo authorities. The figures shared with HT shows that the zoo is witnessing 5 to 6k visitors daily during weekdays and around 10 to 12k visitors during the weekends- an indication that visitor count is on par with pre-Covid-19 times, a positive sign the zoo authorities were expecting.Byculla Zoo was reopened for the general public on November 1, 2021, after being shut from April 2021. According to the official data, between November 1 and 22, the zoo recorded a footfall of 125,702 visitors resulting in revenue of ₹ 5,096,450.Speaking about the increase in the footfall, the Director of Byculla Zoo Dr Sanjay Tripathi said, “On last Sunday, we handled around 14k visitors, which means we have reached the pre-Covid-19 times. Penguin chicks, tigers and hyenas are quite a crowd-puller at the zoo.”As the number of visitors increase, security remains a concern, briefing on the same, Dr Sanjay Tripathi elaborated, “We have also increased the security arrangements here and we also request people to maintain a queue while visiting the zoo. By next year, we are hoping to get two pairs of lions in the zoo that will become another major attraction among the visitors.”The officials further informed us that one pair of Asiatic lions would be brought from Sakkarbaug Zoological Park in Junagadh while another would be brought from Kamla Nehru Prani Sangrahalaya, Indore. In exchange, Byculla Zoo has plans to procure two pairs of zebras from Ramat Gan Safari Park in Israel.The Byculla zoo authorities had in February 2020 had got the two tigers from Aurangabad zoo, and had plans to keep them in the 3,500 square-metre tiger enclosure for the two new wild cats will have flora, fauna, landscape and terrain that replicates the conditions in the Ranthambore National Park at Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-footfall-reaches-pre-covid-times-101637769564455.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Murder accused flees from Sassoon hospital, caught within 3 hours by Pune police||PUNE A man in judicial custody in a murder case fled from Sassoon General Hospital on Tuesday while undergoing treatment and was caught within three hours by Pune city police.The man has been identified as Kishor Atmaram Shirsath (30), a resident of Lakshminagar in Yerawada.The man was brought to the hospital and was discharged from the medical intensive care unit (MICU) ward on Tuesday morning after treatment.“He made up a reason to visit the bathroom and in the toilet of MICU ward of the Sassoon hospital, he removed the glasses from the window and locked the door from inside and fled from the window before jumping from the second-floor toilet,” read a statement from Bund Garden police station officials.He was found at 1:15pm at Indraprasth garden in Lakshminagar area of Yerawada.A case under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bund Garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/murder-accused-flees-from-sassoon-hospital-caught-within-3-hours-by-pune-police-101637769384329.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body allots More house under BSUP scheme||Three years after losing both her legs following a fall on the railway tracks at the Thane railway station, 17-year-old Runali More was allotted a house by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) as her family stayed in a rented home.More, a resident of Manpada in Ghodbunder, did not have a house of her own. She was 14 when she lost her legs and help poured in from several quarters to provide her prosthetics. She was allotted the keys to her home by Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde. The incident occurred on August 14, 2018, when More was walking on platform No. 5 and fell on the tracks after being accidentally pushed by a passenger. More, then a Class 8 student of Carmel School, was on her way to check out a new Maths coaching class.According to More’s parents, she had come out of the trauma in a short period and had accepted the situation by preparing herself mentally.Shinde said, “Since then we had helped her to pursue her education and also paid all her medical expenses. She wants to become a doctor and we will pay her medical college fees so that the incident doesn’t hamper her dreams. We also realised that she does not have a home of her own and thus decided to allot her one.”Thane Mayor, Naresh Mhaske, informed that More was allotted a home under the Basic Services for Urban Poor (BSUP) Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-allots-more-house-under-bsup-scheme-101637769208109.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Govt offers pay hike, urges ST employees to end stir; leaders say need a day to decide||In a bid to end the ongoing strike of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees, the state government on Wednesday announced a salary hike for the state transport (ST) employees. Transport minister Anil Parab also said that the state government cannot decide on the workers’ primary demand to merge the MSRTC with the state government, as the issue is currently being looked into by a court-appointed committee. The strike, which has almost paralysed parts of rural Maharashtra, where the ST buses are the main mode of public transport, is unlikely to end on Wednesday as the leaders of ST employees have sought a day to mull over the government’s offer. The ST strike commenced just ahead of Diwali and later gathered momentum as the state’s principal opposition party, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), backed and even led the workers. The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leader alleged that BJP was fuelling the stir to corner the state government. After hectic parleys between the state and ST workers’ delegation, and a series of meetings between Parab, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is admitted to a city hospital, Parab announced the hike in basic salary of the employees, which will come into effect from next month. The revised salary is expected to put an additional burden of about ₹750 crore annually on the MSRTC, the minister said. According to Parab, the hike in pay ranges from ₹7,200 to ₹3,600 depending on the category and number of years in service. “The state government has decided to hike the basic salary of the employees. We have given a 41% increase in the salary, which is the biggest hike in the history of ST,” said Parab, who was flanked by his cabinet colleague Uday Samant and BJP legislators Gopichand Padalkar and Sadabhau Khot, who was leading the delegation of ST workers. The minister also said that the corporation will ensure that the salaries of the employees will be paid before the 10th of every month. ST workers had complained that the salaries were delayed for several weeks and months. The minister further added, “For employees up to 10 years of service, we have made an increase of ₹5,000. Those who got ₹16,800 gross pay, will now get ₹24,000, which is a hike of ₹7,200. For the employees who are between 10 and 20 years of service, we have given them a raise of ₹4,000 in their basic pay. Therefore, who had basic pay of ₹16,000, their revised basic pay is now 23,040. For employees with over 20 years of service, we have increased the basic pay by ₹2,500. If their basic salary was ₹26,000 and their gross pay was ₹37,440, will now get ₹41,040. Those who had basic pay of ₹37,000 and gross pay was ₹53,280, their revised pay will now be ₹56,280.” Parab appealed to the employees to end the stir and resume their service from Thursday or Friday (for those who are Mumbai). “Whatever the state government could do, it has done so far. Despite being in financial loss, the state had given a salary hike. The state cannot decide on the merger, as the court-appointed committee would decide on that. The state would accept the decision of the committee. If the strike does not end, the state will act with whatever means available to it,” Parab said. The MSRTC was affected the most due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions. The ST’s daily revenue is around ₹22 crore, however, it incurred a loss worth several crores during the lockdown. Meanwhile, the ST workers who have camped at Azad Maidan, in Mumbai, are still firm to their demand on the merger. A section of the workers on strike said that their demand was for a merger with the state government and not a hike in salary. After the government’s announcement, Padalkar and Khot told workers at Azad Maidan that a decision will be made in consultation with them. “The government has made the announcement. We will stay back at Azad Maidan and will discuss this with the worker here. We have so far not announced if we have accepted their announcement. The figures they have announced will be verified by some experts. We will announce our stand tomorrow (Thursday),” Khot said. The former minister of state in the BJP-led government said that the stir will continue till the discussions finish within the delegation. “We need at least a day to discuss and decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/govt-offers-pay-hike-urges-st-employees-to-end-stir-leaders-say-need-a-day-to-decide-101637769144475.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Women duped of jewellery in separate incidents in Pune; 7 booked||In two separate incidents, women were duped of jewellery in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune, on Tuesday.Three unidentified men were booked in a case in Pimpri-Chinchwad while four unidentified men were booked by Pune city police.In the Pimpri-Chinchwad case, the 58-year-old woman was walking around 1:20 pm on Tuesday near Talegaon-Chakan road when the three men approached her and claimed to be policemen.“They claimed to be policemen and told the woman that another woman had been murdered in the area and that she should remove her jewellery and keep them in her bag. One of them took her jewellery and said he will put it in her bag safely but instead took it away,” read a statement from Talegaon Dabhade police station officials.The 58-year-old realised after reaching home that her jewellery worth over ₹1,60,000 had been stolen.In another incident that happened hours before the one in Talegaon, a 60-year-old pedestrian woman in the Wanowrie area of Pune city was approached by four men who told her that another woman had been beaten up and robbed in the area where she was walking. The woman was walking near a restaurant around 11:35am on Tuesday.The woman took off her bangles worth ₹60,000 and proceeded to keep them in her bag when one of them pretended to help her put them inside the bag. However, similar to the Pimpri Chinchwad case, the man is suspected to have fled with the ornaments.A case was registered under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 170 (personating public servant), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Talegaon Dabhade police station while a case under Sections 420, 419 and 34 of IPC was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/women-duped-of-jewellery-in-separate-incidents-in-pune-7-booked-101637768844492.html
24-11-2021||Patna||JD(U) showcases Nitish’s 15-year rule||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar on Wednesday showcased 15 years of Nitish Kumar’s government in the state with a slew of programmes to highlight its achievements.“The huge infrastructure growth in Bihar is for everyone to see, as it has touched the life of every section in terms of electricity, roads, drinking water, agriculture and health care since 2005. It infuses confidence in every Bihari. Today, one shudders to think of the situation prior to 2005, when it was considered that governing Bihar was impossible. Nitish Kumar accepted the challenge and showed how it can be done, as he is a doer,” said JD-U national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh.Nitish had first taken oath as the chief minister of Bihar on November 24, 2005, wresting power from Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), and has gone on to become the longest serving CM of Bihar with an uninterrupted stint. He has remained an integral part of the NDA all through, barring a brief period. It is his seventh term as CM.JD-U spokesman Neeraj Kumar said societal concerns of Nitish Kumar made him distinct from others and it was the reason why he came up with prohibition on the demands of women, which RJD wants to withdraw. “RJD leaders have forgotten their own constitution, which makes it binding on anyone seeking membership to stay away from intoxicants. Nitish Kumar took everyone along when he decided to come up with the challenging prohibition, as he knew it would require everyone’s support and only a few could create hurdles,” he said.In Supaul, water resources department minister Sanjay Jha said Bihar’s transformation was a result of visionary leadership and strong resolve of Nitish Kumar to take forward his inclusive development model. “Darbhanga airport is one shining example. He is now focusing on industrialisation and water to every farm to boost agriculture. His concerns for environment and programmes earned him appreciation even from the United Nations,” Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-showcases-nitish-s-15-year-rule-101637767600381.html
24-11-2021||Patna||Fully support demand of farmers on MSP: Lalu||Rashtriya Janata Dal ( RJD) chief Lalu Prasad on Wednesday demanded that the Centre bring a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price ( MSP) on crops. “We fully support the demand of farmers for guaranteeing MSP. Our party will continue to extend support to farmers on this demand and continue to fight for it. The repeal of three farm laws is already is a victory of farmers,” he said, addressing party workers after unveiling a six-tonne stone built lantern at the state office of his party on Beer Chand Patel Marg. Lantern is RJD’s party symbol. The RJD chief, who has been in Patna for last two days, had appeared in a special court in connection with a fodder scam case on Tuesday.The RJD chief also slammed the union government for rising prices of fuel and other commodities. In the context of Bihar, Prasad said farmers already suffered damages during the kharif season and were facing uncertainty for the rabi season. “ In the name of development in Bihar, we have waterlogged fields and farmers are ruing their fate,” he said.Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, in his address, also attacked the Nitish Kumar government. “CM Kumar should give one explanation to people as why Bihar is still a laggard state with its lowest rankings in all indices of development as per the Niti Aayaog parameters. What good has happened in last 15 years?Crime has risen, unemployment and migration is rampant while scams are taking place with disconcerting regularity in universities,” he said. He also attacked the government over the recent hooch deaths and alleged that liquor flow in Bihar during prohibition had flourished. “RJD had supported the Prohibition when we were part of the government with JD(U) after 2015 elections. But then Laluji had suggested to the CM that implementation of prohibition should be done effectively,” he said. All senior leaders of the party were present at the function, except RJD chief ‘s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, who has often spoken against the state party leadership. The jeep drivePrasad was seen on Wednesday driving an open jeep near his residence after many years, which aroused curiosity among commuters in the morning hours near the Raj Bhawan. The 74-year-old former railway minister took a small drive from the residence of his wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi to Raj Bhawan road and back. The RJD chief is recuperating from his illness and has started becoming more active in party affairs and public interactions lately.Talking about his driving experience later at a party event, Prasad said,“I get bored these days while recovering from illness . So today I took out my jeep and drove. I had bought this jeep from the military quota and it has been maintained well,” he said, while recalling how during his early days of his political career he used to often drive jeeps and had ferried many leaders including former chief minister Karpoori Thakur. “Karpoorji used to tell me that I am a good driver but drive a bit too fast,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fully-support-demand-of-farmers-on-msp-lalu-101637767598893.html
24-11-2021||Other||LN Mithila University V-C trashes graft charges||Vice-chancellor (V-C) of LN Mithila University (LNMU) professor Surendra Pratap Singh on Wednesday dismissed allegations made against him by the V-C of Patna -based Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU), Prof Md Qudus, while describing it as a conspiracy by the latter to tarnish his clean “academic reputation of 47 years”.A press statement issued by Prof Singh on V-C’s letter head said that he would welcome and cooperate in any probe and vowed legal action against Qudus.Singh was conferred with the Chancellor’s Award for the best V-C at a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan in Patna on Monday.He said that he was made the in-charge V-C of MMHAPU by the Chancellor and continued to work there till the appointment of Qudus. “I was out of state on leave when the notification regarding appointment of Qudus as V-C was issued. In my absence, he started working in the university without taking any charge. Therefore, the allegation that I delayed in handing over the charge to him is completely false.”Singh said that as far as the matter of purchase of items and issue of security guards was concerned, the tender had been duly published in this regard. “The approval was granted by me on the recommendation of the tender committee of the university,” he said. “If there was any error in the tender, he (Qudus) had the right to cancel the same, which he did not do. After giving the work order and payment check to the firm, he is accusing me of fraud, which is completely false,” LNMU V-C’s press statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ln-mithila-university-v-c-trashes-graft-charges-101637767584351.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan MSRTC suspends 27 agitating staff for not returning to work||Following continuous agitation by Maharashtra State Regional Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees, the Kalyan MSRTC has suspended 27 of them for not resuming work despite several warnings.The MSRTC employees across the state have been agitating since October 27, demanding merger of the undertaking with the state government that would give them better salary and greater job security.“We have served notices to the employees to join back to work so that the services can be resumed. We suspended 27 of them who did not join back to work,” said Vijay Gaikwad, depot manager, Kalyan MSRTC.Kalyan MSRTC served notices to more than 300 staff, asking them to resume work.There are around 60-plus buses at the Kalyan depot that provide transportation to routes like Malshej Ghat, Kasara, Express Highway, Konkan, Mumbai, Nashik and Pune.“The communication between the government and the staff union is under way. We will continue the agitation. They are suspending the staff but this won’t make any difference to the agitation,” said Ashok Sagbhor, secretary for employee union, Kalyan depot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-msrtc-suspends-27-agitating-staff-for-not-returning-to-work-101637766928265.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Process of acquiring 13.5 acres in pipeline for Pune airport: Bapat||PUNE At a meeting of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) on Wednesday at VVIP Circuit house, MP Girish Bapat, chairman of the AAC, claimed that the airport will soon acquire 13.5 acres. “The process of acquiring 13.5 acres is in the pipeline, as the Air Force will take over land in Chandigarh and Ahmedabad, and handover 13.5 acres in Pune. Also, evaluation of a 2.5-acre plot will be completed soon,” said Bapat. “In the next two months, the Lohegaon airport is expected get road connectivity to Viman nagar’s Puru society. I have visited the road,” added Bapat. Others issues which were discussed were construction of STP, extension of existing runway, metro connectivity, and traffic. DPR needed on connecting airport with metro Bapat said that Maha-Metro authorities have been asked to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) regarding metro routes to and from the airport. “Whether it will be from Ramwadi (Ahmednagar road) to or from Gunjan chowk in Yerwada, it will be decided based on the DPR. We also need to do survey traffic if we plan to start,” he added. Currently, Pune airport caters to nine million passengers annually, however once the new terminal is ready the airport will cater to 21 million passengers. “We still don’t know when Purnadar airport will get ready. Till then, we will continue to improve facilities at here. Currently, the airport in Pune has an 8,500 metre runway and in future it is expected to expand to more than 10,000 metres,” added Bapat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/process-of-acquiring-13-5-acres-in-pipeline-for-pune-airport-bapat-101637766624384.html
24-11-2021||Pune||90 flights to operate daily from Pune: airport director Dhoke||PUNE With Pune’s Lohegaon International airport set to restart its 24x7 operations from December 1, 90 flights are expected to operate daily from Pune. Currently 60 flights are operated daily from Pune and with a daily flyer-footfall of 18,000.During an Airport Advisory Committee meeting at the VVIP Circuit House on Wednesday, Santosh Dhoke, airport director said, “We are expecting movements of 90 flights once the 24x7 operations start. Airlines are also checking viability to connect new destinations.”“Earlier there were 700-800 passengers per hour and it increased to 1,500-1,800 in the last one month. Due to the sudden surge, things were a little difficult to manage, although we have increased X-ray machines and you will see more facilities once the airport resumes 24 hour operations,” added Dhoke.Airport to get 500 CISF officials soonThe Lohegaon airport is planning to increase the number of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials on its premises to at least 500.“Currently there are 358 CISF officials on duty at the airport and it will soon increase to 500. Once the number increases things will be better managed at the airport,” added Dhoke.“We cannot speed up the security check as it is important for security concerns,” Dhoke said.Soon, no vaccination check for arrivals Long queues at the Lohegaon airport to check vaccination certificates of travellers coming in was raised by Girish Bapat, Pune’s member of parliament and chairman of the committee. Bapat said he will be talking with top authorities to cancel the vaccination check for arrivals.“While boarding flights to Pune from any destination, passengers are already checked for vaccination and have an RT-PCR test report. There is no need to check again here on arrival. Also, there is no proper medical staff to check the certificates and passengers have to stand in queues unnecessarily. Therefore, we have decided to do away with the dual check and soon an order will be issued in this regard,” said Bapat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/90-flights-to-operate-daily-from-pune-airport-director-dhoke-101637766264135.html
24-11-2021||Bhopal||MP district ends 10% discount on liquor to encourage vaccination. Here is why||BHOPAL: Mandsaur district in Madhya Pradesh has withdrawn a 10% discount on liquor for people who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Wednesday, linking the decision to scrap the discount within 24 hours of its introduction to opposition from a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker.Mandsaur excise officer Anil Sachan said the offer, designed to motivate people to get themselves vaccinated, was withdrawn after objections.BJP legislator Yashpal Sisodiya was among those who frowned at the initiative. “This decision is completely wrong as it will increase the consumption of liquor,” Sisodiya said.The legislator said people could end up buying liquor in large quantities to avail cheaper price and get teetotalers to also buy liquor for them. On Twitter, some people recalled that the legislator’s opposition to encouraging liquor was understandable and natural, particularly given how he would often speak about his decision not to distribute liquor in the run up to 2018 state elections.To be sure, the discount was available on country-made liquor purchased from three designated shops in the district. A circular issued on Tuesday also designated three excise department officers, one for each vend, who could be contacted for any problems in availing the discounts.In Mandsaur, only 45% of people have received the second vaccine dose, 5 percentage points lower than the state’s average.Mandsaur was the only district in Madhya Pradesh to use a discount on liquor to nudge people to get their dose.In south MP’s Khandwa district 350km from Mandsaur, the district administration prohibited liquor vends to sell liquor to people who haven’t been vaccinated.The state’s food and civil supplies department has also ordered that only vaccinated people will get ration under the Food Security Act after December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-district-withdraws-10-discount-on-liquor-for-fully-vaccinated-customers-101637766204487.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Wankhede’s father appeals against HC order, says Malik still posting unverified material||Mumbai Dnyandev Wankhede, the father of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has filed an appeal in the Bombay high court (HC) against the order by Justice Madhav Jamdar wherein NCP leader Nawab Malik was asked to reasonably verify content regarding the family before posting it on social media platforms. Wankhede’s appeal states that Malik has not been adhering to the directions of the HC and continues to post unverified content which is harming the reputation of the family. The appeal will be heard on Thursday. On Wednesday, the advocate for Dnyandev mentioned the appeal before the bench of Justice S J Kathawalla and Justice Milind Jadhav and sought an urgent hearing of his appeal against the order by the single bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar on November 22. Dnyandev had filed an interim application in the defamation suit seeking an injunction order which would restrain Malik from posting any more material on any media platform till the suit was decided. Justice Jamdar, while holding that the right of privacy for Dnyandev Wankhede and his family members who Malik had mentioned in his online posts was important, directed Malik to reasonably verify the material before posting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wankhedes-father-appeals-against-hc-order-says-malik-still-posting-unverified-material-101637766144215.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Man remanded to Pimpri-Chinchwad police custody for killing wife||A man was remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police by a local court for killing his wife during a domestic fight, on Tuesday morning.The deceased woman has been identified as Zainabi Anumuddin Chakure (35), while her arrested husband has been identified as Anmuddin Allauddin Chakure (39), both residents of Pimpri.The man allegedly bashed the woman’s head with a stone floor tile and killed her. The two were fighting about the case of their missing minor daughter.The man allegedly walked into the police station and told the police what had happened.A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Pimpri police station after the body was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-remanded-to-pimpri-chinchwad-police-custody-for-killing-wife-101637765904071.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Rs60 crore reserved for HCMTR diverted to devp fund of elected members||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has diverted Rs60 crore reserved for the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) projects to the forward development funds of elected members.As ruling party members, i.e. the BJP, got more funds, opposition party members made the same demand. The NCP backed the Rs58 crore integrated traffic signal project of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and on Wednesday, the standing committee diverted the said monies to development funds of elected members from the opposition.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “Funds had been allocated to all elected members. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many works of elected members were halted. To complete the works, funds have been allocated. There will be no shortage of funds for the HCMTR project as PMC will make provisions in the coming budget.” Rasane added,”The project had a Rs64 crore budgetary provision. It will not require funds immediately so the standing committee approved the diversion of funds.”The HCMTR project is a dream project of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Whenever he use to visit Pune city, he appealed to party members to speed up the project to solve the city’s traffic problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs60-crore-reserved-for-hcmtr-diverted-to-devp-fund-of-elected-members-101637765004231.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||38% dip in B Arch applicants, students blame eligibility criteria||The pre-admission registrations for several technical courses including Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch) ended recently and figures revealed by the state common entrance test (CET) cell shows registrations for the course has dipped by almost 38% this year. From 5,567 registrations in 2020, the number stands at 3,465 this year. Students have blamed this decrease in demand on the recent decision by the Council of Architecture (CoA) to only accept the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) as opposed to Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) scores, which was also acceptable until last year. Several students raised objections to this change in the ruling, especially, since many have scored well in JEE. However, due to the change in eligibility criteria, many B Arch aspirants are opting to appear for NATA once again in 2022 and apply for admissions next year. “Most students appeared for JEE and NATA, and while everyone scored well in JEE, most found the first two sessions of NATA very tough. In a year when students have already gone through too much, the last thing they needed was a change in eligibility criteria. These students have slogged at least two years preparing for the entrance exam and now it’s of no use,” said the mother of a B Arch aspirant. Until the 2020-21 academic year, B Arch aspirants were allowed to register using either their JEE-Mains or the NATA score. However, this year, following a notification from the CoA, it has been clarified that JEE scores will only be accepted for admissions to IITs, NITs and central universities, whereas all other universities/institutes will accept the NATA score only. This year, both JEE and NATA exams were held in multiple sessions, mainly to give students the option of choosing the best score out of the multiple sessions, and at the same time, also giving students the option of a backup session, in case they missed the previous session due to Covid-related issues. Many B Arch aspirants have now decided to appear for NATA exam in 2022 and apply for admissions for the next academic year. “My daughter appeared for the first two sessions of NATA as well as two sessions of JEE. While she has scored 98 percentile in JEE, her NATA score is low, and until now she was not worried because we were under the impression that the JEE score will be applicable. Because of this change in eligibility criteria, my daughter will either lose a seat in a college of her choice or lose the entire year and try again next year,” said the father of another aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/38-dip-in-b-arch-applicants-students-blame-eligibility-criteria-101637764884588.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||President hails contribution of unsung freedom fighters||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said India’s independence was achieved due to the contribution of several unsung freedom fighters and their role should be made known to the public.President Kovind arrived in Kanpur on a two-day visit for the birth centenary celebrations of former MP Chaudhary Harmohan Singh Yadav, a Shaurya Chakra winner who was associated with the Samajwadi Party. Yadav died in 2012.In his address at the Meharban Singh Ka Purwa township, Kovind said the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was being celebrated to mark 75 years of independence.“In two years of this Mahotsav, we will remember the contribution of the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle who had laid down their lives,” the President said.The President remembered freedom fighters Ajijan Bai, Mainavati, Jaidev Kapoor, Shiv Varma, Bijay Kumar Sinha and Gaya Prasad on the occasion.“It is the duty of all of us to bring information about the contribution of such anonymous freedom fighters to the public,” President Kovind said.“The future of any nation is guided by the experience of the past and enriched by the heritage,” he said, adding that everyone should work on making a strong, developed and successful India. Praising Harmohan Singh Yadav, he said he single-handedly converted the tiny hamlet Meharban Singh Ka Purwa into a shining township. He was a perfect example of simplicity and an inspiration for public service, the President said, adding that he strove to bring happiness in the lives of the people, particularly those living on the margins and the farmers.From gram sabha to Rajya Sabha, his views about agriculture were heard very seriously by policy makers, the President said.The President said Yadav had set an example of communal harmony, saving countless lives from a mob in 1984. Kovind was referring to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Seven years later, Yadav was conferred the Shaurya Chakra for his fearlessness.The doors of Harmohan Singh Yadav’s house were always open for all, he said.Earlier, the President was welcomed by Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the Chakeri airport.Kovind will attend the centenary celebrations of Harcourt Butler Technical University in Kanpur on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-hails-contribution-of-unsung-freedom-fighters-101637764764207.html
24-11-2021||Pune||24x7 water project contractor wins Rs4.80 cr compensation from PMC; work order reinstated||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay Rs4.80 crore to a company by the name of Jain Irrigation. The PMC will also then allow Jain Irrigation to restart work the 24x7 water supply scheme. The above amount does not include taxes.Earlier, the PMC had served a stop-work order the firm for not carrying out work in time. However, an arbitrator in the matter has ruled in favour of the contractor, Jain Irrigation.The civic body will therefore continue the work with same firm and pay a compensation. According to PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane, two companies, L&T and Jain Irrigation have been contracted to carry out the 24x7 water project in the city. Jain Irrigation allegedly failed to meet certain deadlines, after which the PMC acted and also did not to return a deposit. “A former IAS officer was appointed as arbitrator and the decision went in favour of the contractor. PMC was originally asked to pay Rs56 crore. If the decision is followed as it is, PMC has to pay more than Rs63 crore to the company. Challenging the decision in the High Court would have taken time and the project will be delayed. Even by considering the existing material costs, there are chances that a new contractor would charge more. Considering all these factors, the municipal commissioner negotiated with the company and it is has been decided to continue the work with same company,” Rasane said. The standing committee on Tuesday decided to pay the above compensation. “Now the administration will sign a fresh contract with the company and the company will start work,” Rasane added. The 24x7 water project will ensure equal distribution of water to all residents in the city and is an ambitious project undertaken by the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24x7-water-project-contractor-wins-rs4-80-cr-compensation-from-pmc-work-order-reinstated-101637764404091.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Former CM’s visit to Raj Thackeray’s new house fuels alliance rumours||Mumbai Former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis visited Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray’s new house ‘Shivtirth’ at Dadar on Wednesday, fueling rumours of an alliance between BJP and MNS ahead of the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls.Fadnavis was accompanied by his wife Amruta during the one-and-a-half-hour visit. The MNS described this visit as personal. “Rajsaheb had called them to his new home for lunch. There was nothing political about the visit,” said MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande.BJP legislator Ram Kadam, who was earlier in the MNS, also said that the visit had nothing to do with politics. “It was a courtesy call as Thackeray moved to his new house and there was nothing beyond that,” he stated. Earlier this month, BJP leader Asish Shelar paid Thackeray a visit. BJP Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil had also visited Thackeray in August.After a series of defeats in successive elections, Raj Thackeray in January 2020 shifted towards the Hindu hardline agenda leaving his “justice for sons of the soil” programme. He unveiled a new saffron flag with a rajmudra (seal) of Maratha King Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, with the party’s name below it. During Dussehra, the MNS put ‘Proud to be Hindu’ banners in many places across the city. Last month, two seers from Uttar Pradesh, who go by the name of Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji and Jagatguru Suryacharaji, had met Raj Thackeray and requested him for an alliance with BJP and even offered their services to mediate between the two parties.Political experts said it was very clear that the meeting was aimed at the upcoming BMC polls. Political expert Hemant Desai said, “Both the parties will definitely have a tie-up. It may be a direct or an indirect alliance as both parties need each other to fight the Shiv Sena-led alliance.”He added that the BJP is still not sure of bagging power in BMC on its own. “Last time, it lost power by a whisker as it secured 82 compared to two more by the Sena at 84. However, this time, the Sena is ruling the state and will not spare any resources to win back the BMC it has ruled for the last several decades,” he added. He also said that the MNS is at its weakest phase as it has just one legislator in both state assembly and the BMC and needs someone who can fund its campaign. “The BJP fits the bill perfectly,” he added.Thackeray had become a bitter critic of the BJP prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and had held several rallies in the state criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government. He had also been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with transactions related to the purchase of Kohinoor Mills land at Dadar in central Mumbai. However, in recent times, he has refrained from criticising Modi and has turned his ire on cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-cm-s-visit-to-raj-thackeray-s-new-house-fuels-alliance-rumours-101637763804459.html
24-11-2021||Ranchi||Specially abled woman gets Aadhaar card after 8 yrs as Jharkhand govt reaches her doorstep||Physically challenged Bhekhraj Kumari is glad that the government came to her doorstep to provide her benefits of government schemes and Aadhaar card for which she was struggling for the last eight years. A resident of Jharpo village, in Tatijharia block of Hazaribagh, she was unable to receive the benefits of government schemes in the absence of the Aadhaar card. The woman had apprised officials of her ordeal on getting to know about ‘Aapke Adhikar, Aapki Sarkar, Aapke Dwar’ (Your Rights, Your Government, At Your Door) scheme, a programme aimed at resolving issues related to government schemes at the doorstep of beneficiaries. "After listening to her plight, the District Welfare Officer and Block Development Officer, Tatijharia, swung into action. A vehicle was arranged and she was brought to the camp (Tatijharia) from her residence. Her registration for the Aadhaar card was done on-site and the document was issued to her," a statement from the state government said. Till Tuesday late afternoon, more than 2.5 lakh applications have been received from all over the state and over one lakh cases have been successfully resolved, the statement said. The programme will continue till December 29, marking the completion of two years of the formation of the incumbent government. The scheme was announced by Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Jharkhand's Statehood Day on November 15, the birth anniversary of legendary tribal leader Birsa Munda at Ulihatu, the birthplace of the icon. Multiple camps are being organised at panchayat levels to ensure that the benefits of government schemes reach the doorstep of the rural people. Sajni Bala Mahto, a resident of Palashdih village of Madhavpur panchayat located in Bodam block of East Singhbhum who earned her livelihood through selling Hadiya (desi liquor) wanted to switch over to animal husbandry for a respectful living. "In a camp organised in Madhavpur panchayat under ‘Aapke Adhikar Aapki Sarkar Aapke Dwar’, Sajni Bala Mahto was given ₹10, 000 in the form of an interest-free loan under Phoolo Jhano Ashirwad Abhiyan. “With the loan provided to her through Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion society (JSLPS), she will be able to lead a respectful life while earning livelihood for her family," the statement said. Likewise, Shashi Devi 79, a resident of Ranchi was struggling to get her Ration Card (PDS card) despite multiple attempts. A ration card was issued to her during the outreach programme. The chief minister, earlier, in a letter addressed to all elected village heads had appealed to them to take part in the programme and make it a success. “In last two years, a lot of efforts have been made by our government to live up to your expectations. Now the government is coming to your doors to deliver your rights at your doorstep. Be sure to take advantage,” the letter said. The letter has also been translated into local languages and shared with the public representatives at the village level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/specially-abled-woman-gets-aadhaar-card-after-8-yrs-as-jharkhand-govt-reaches-her-doorstep-101637762996678.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Centre wouldn’t have repealed farm laws if no polls in UP, states: Pawar||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, on Wednesday, alleged that the Narendra Modi government would not have decided to repeal the three contentious farm laws if there were no elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states in the near future. Earlier last week, Modi made an announcement about withdrawing the three agricultural laws, which drew strident protests at Delhi’s borders and elsewhere. To a question on whether the PM’s move was politically aimed, Pawar said the move was announced in view of upcoming elections in UP and other neighbouring states. “There are elections in UP and other neighbouring states. As per our information, the people in power, when they visited the villages in some parts of these states, they got some different kind of reception from the locals. Considering this, they might have sensed what kind of treatment they will get when they go to seek votes. It seems that on that backdrop, this practical decision was taken,” he said. “If there were no elections in these states in the near future, this decision would not have been taken,” he added. On a query about the actions taken by the central agencies in Maharashtra, Pawar said it is not a new thing. “I recently met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. There are six to seven ministers from her government who are currently being harassed by the central agencies. I am going to meet her in Mumbai in the next few days.” He added that the BJP government at the Centre has taken a stand to “harass” non-BJP states by using agencies and the same is being witnessed in Maharashtra. “Let them conduct inquiries. Nothing will come out. This is the finest example of the misuse of power by the people in power,” he added. Asked about former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh submitting in the court through his lawyer that there was a threat to his life in Maharashtra, Pawar said that he was shocked after reading it. “What to say, if a person who worked on several key positions in Maharashtra police department is scared of his colleagues and the state police,” he added. On Monday, Singh’s lawyer told the Supreme Court that the IPS officer was in hiding as he faced threat to his life if he returns to Maharashtra. Issuing a notice to the CBI and the Maharashtra government on Singh’s plea that the entire matter involving him and the former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh should be investigated by the CBI, the apex court protected him from arrest in criminal cases lodged against him in the state. Why MSRTC problems don’t add upOn the strike by MSRTC employees, Sharad Pawar said the financial condition of the corporation is bad. He said the salaries given to their respective transport utility employees by states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana - were compared and during the comparison, it was found that the salaries given by Gujarat are lower than those given in Maharashtra; whereas all other states pay wages higher than Maharashtra. Pawar said he has come to know that the state government has taken a positive decision to end the ongoing stalemate. Asked about the involvement of political parties in the agitation, Pawar said that when a group of people go on a strike or hit the streets for some demands, it is an opportunity for the opposition to see if they can add more fuel to that agitation. On the defeat of NCP leader and MLC Shashikant Shinde in the Satara District Central Cooperative Bank elections and the subsequent stone-pelting by his followers at the NCP office in Satara on Tuesday, Pawar said Shinde took the elections “lightly”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-wouldn-t-have-repealed-farm-laws-if-no-polls-in-up-states-pawar-101637763384141.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||When can Maharashtra expect a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic?||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has warned that the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) may strike the state in December, but added its impact could be mild. Tope also said that during the third wave medical oxygen and ICU beds will not be required in proportion to the previous wave. Tope's observations echoed several medical experts who also maintain that a third wave of the pandemic is unlikely to be as devastating as the second one that struck the country last April."The third wave is expected to be mild and medical oxygen and ICU beds will not be required," news agency PTI quoted him as speaking to a news channel on Wednesday.Tope also spoke about the current Covid-19 scenario in the state and mentioned that 80% of the people in Maharashtra are vaccinated and that the infection level and the mortality rate is less at present. Maharashtra's tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 66,31,297 on Tuesday.Also read | Maharashtra may allow physical classes for students from class 1 to 4The state health minister also informed that he met Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya the previous week to seek the Centre's nod for administering a booster dose of vaccine for health workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and vulnerable sections. He also sought to inoculate children in the age group of 12 to 18 years against coronavirus. "Mandaviya said he would discuss the issue with the ICMR," Tope added.On Tuesday, All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria said that the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic may not have the same severity as the first two phases of the viral disease, adding that fewer Covid-19 cases being reported in India, indicating that the vaccines have been effective in providing protection against the viral disease. Guleria also underlined there is no need for a booster dose for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/when-can-maharashtra-expect-a-third-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-101637758346949.html
24-11-2021||Pune||PMC to spend Rs2 lakh to improve 95 students’ writing skills in pilot project||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is to undertake a handwriting improvement project in its schools, as a pilot project. The PMC will spend Rs2,100 per student and train 95 students to work, improve and learn to write by hand. Shivaji Daundkar, education officer of secondary and technical education said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students do not have the practice of writing. Because of online education, they have forgotten writing skills. PMC will spend Rs2 lakh to train 95 students. If the results are satisfactory, the PMC will extend the programme to include more students.” Daundkar added, “Secondary school has already started and students are not able to write effectively. PMC has executed a similar project a few years ago. Even some private schools have run such programmes to give writing skills to students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-spend-rs2-lakh-to-improve-95-students-writing-skills-in-pilot-project-101637762844147.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||1,500 illegal structures demolished in 4 months in Malad: BMC||In a bid to curb the increasing illegal structures, the P North ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has demolished over 1,500 illegal structures in the past four months.The P/N ward is the largest municipal ward, in terms of geographical area, which covers the Malad, Gorai and Marve areas of the western suburbs. Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant municipal commissioner from this ward has said that the majority of the demolished illegal structures are commercial, while the remaining are residential structures. He also said that all these encroachments are taking place on lands owned by the state and Central government.“There are several land parcels in Marve, Erangal, Malvani and Madh that belong to the collector’s department. The civic body has been issuing notices to these establishments, however, they did not respond. Hence, we have now started to demolish these structures particularly,” Dagadkhair said.He also mentioned that to expedite the process, the BMC has appointed a contractor who is providing logistical support and manpower.Earlier, in June this year, 11 people were killed after a portion of a residential structure came down crashing in Malad. It was later found out this structure was also built on the collector’s land.“These agencies have to take the action and BMC provided manpower and logistics to them. We took prohibitory action after no response was received,” Dagadkhair said.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said that the BMC has already urged the state agencies to appoint consultants for conducting a risk assessment of these illegal structures. Kakani added that BMC has already appointed a consultant who is conducting a survey of these structures on BMC-owned lands.“There are many people who live in these shanties, due to which, several accidents take place during monsoon, every year,” said Kakani. “We have urged them to carry out a risk assessment survey so that these people could be relocated in a different location,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1500-illegal-structures-demolished-in-4-months-in-malad-bmc-101637762423950.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||CBI concludes arguments on state’s demand for SIT Anil Deshmukh case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday concluded its arguments in the petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT), headed by a retired judge, to take over the probe on the corruption allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. The first information report (FIR) against Deshmukh was filed by the central agency on April 21. In its closing arguments, the CBI submitted that the reliefs sought by the state for their two top officers namely chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, who was summoned by the CBI were misconceived, as it could only be sought by the officers themselves. The CBI argued that the claim of the state that the investigation by CBI would be prejudiced, as its current director had a role to play, was misconceived and the petition was only intended to mislead the court. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition filed by the state government, was informed by special counsel Darius Khambatta for the state that the reference of the conversation between DGP Pandey and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh by the CBI in its arguments on Tuesday, was clearly intended to influence the mind of the court. Khambatta stated that though the CBI claimed that it was only calling upon Pandey in connection with the letter written by Singh to the CBI director on April 19, by referring to the conversation between the two, CBI wanted to influence the court against the state of Maharashtra. Singh had written to the CBI informing it about Pandey’s attempt to make him withdraw the letter written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, while the CBI was conducting the HC-ordered preliminary probe in the corruption allegations against Deshmukh, by Singh and a complaint by Dr Jaishri Patil. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi for CBI, however, refuted the claims of Khambatta and said that it was just an attempt by the state to mislead the court and draw the attention of the bench away from the matter on hand. While continuing his arguments, opposing the transfer of the CBI investigation to an SIT, Lekhi submitted that the grievance of the state that CBI director Subodh Jaiswal could not oversee the investigation as he was a part of the instances that were being investigated, was misplaced as the investigating officer was someone else. Lekhi further submitted that the grievance against Jaiswal could be raised only by Pandey as he was the aggrieved party and the state had no role in it. He also referred to Supreme Court judgements which established that only an aggrieved person could seek transfer if he apprehended a prejudice in the investigation. Lekhi concluded CBI’s arguments stating that there was malice on the part of the state of Maharashtra in filing the petition seeking transfer of investigation to SIT and hence it should not be entertained. While responding to CBI’s submissions, Khambatta drew the attention of the court to the material which CBI wanted to place before the court in a sealed cover and said that if the material was crucial to the investigation, the CBI should not submit it in a sealed cover, as the state was not averse to the investigation, a fact that it had been maintaining since the inception of the petition. Khambatta submitted that the only reason for submitting material in a sealed cover was to cause prejudice. The state government will continue its rejoinder on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-concludes-arguments-on-state-s-demand-for-sit-anil-deshmukh-case-101637761223862.html
24-11-2021||Bangalore||Down the drain: ₹13 lakh recovered from drainage pipes of civic engineer's house in Karnataka||Anti-corruption bureau sleuths raided the residence of a junior engineer of the Public Welfare Department (PWD) in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi district on Wednesday and seized cash worth ₹13 lakh from one of the drainage pipes at his home. The search by the Karnataka anti-corruption bureau (ACB) comes amid an ongoing crackdown on government officials accused of amassing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income.In an unverified video tweeted by news agency ANI, purported to be shot during the raid, ACB officials could be seen collecting bundles of cash coming out of a drainage pipe at the junior engineer’s house.#WATCH Karnataka ACB recovers approximately ₹13 lakhs during a raid at the residence of a PWD junior engineer in Kalaburagi(Video source unverified) pic.twitter.com/wlYZNG6rRO“A total of ₹54 lakh in cash was found during the raid, including ₹13 lakh from one of the drainage pipes at the house of a PWD junior engineer,” Mahesh Meghannanavar, ACB's superintendent of police (north eastern range), told ANI.A team of 400 ACB officials searched as many as 60 locations across the state, including premises of 15 officers of various departments in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mandya, and Ballari, among other areas.According to the bureau, searches were also conducted at locations belonging to Mangalore Smart City executive engineer KS Lingegowda, Mandya executive engineer Srinivas K, Doddaballapur revenue inspector Lakshminarashimaiah, former project manager of Bengaluru Nirmiti Kendra Vasudev, Bengaluru Nandini Dairy general manager B Krishna Reddy, Gadag agriculture department joint director TS Rudreshappa and Bailhongal cooperative development officer AK Masti, among others.An ACB official told news agency PTI they seized property-related documents, huge quantities of gold and silver ornaments, cash and investment documents from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/down-the-drain-rs-13-lakh-recovered-from-drainage-pipes-of-civic-engineer-s-house-in-karnataka-101637758497607.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Centre targeting non-BJP ruled states, misusing power: Sharad Pawar||Mumbai NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government has adopted a policy of misusing power and troubling the non-BJP ruled states. Responding to the allegations of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders that they were being targeted by central agencies, he said, “I will be meeting the chief minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee in the next three to four days as she is likely to visit Mumbai.”Slamming the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, Pawar said that around six to seven ministers from the Mamata Banerjee were investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The same is happening here in Maharashtra but there is no need to worry. They will not find anything in these probes. They are setting an example on how to misuse power,” he added. Pawar said that the MVA government can be re-elected if all the three parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — decide to contest the polls together in 2024. “This government will complete its tenure of five years and if all the three parties decide to contest the 2024 assembly polls together, then it again will be re-elected,” he said.Commenting on the prime minister’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws, Pawar said that they would not have taken the decision if there were no assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab.“The ruling leaders faced a different sort of welcome in the recent days when they visited in Haryana, some parts of UP and Punjab. This has become a cause of concern as assembly polls are scheduled in these states,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-targeting-non-bjp-ruled-states-misusing-power-sharad-pawar-101637759544036.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: SIT summons 2 dera office-bearers for questioning on November 26||Faridkot Two weeks after questioning Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim at Rohtak jail, Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) has summoned dera’s administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and vice-chairperson PR Nain on November 26 in connection with a 2015 sacrilege case. Vipassana and Nain have been asked to appear before SIT chairman inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar on November 26 at 9am at the Ludhiana range office in connection with a first information report (FIR) registered at the Bajakhana police station on June 2, 2015.The FIR was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot district. Summons were issued under Section 160 (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). On November 8, the SIT asked 114 questions from the dera chief during his grilling for more than seven hours at Sunaria Jail in Rohtak. Following this, the SIT had submitted a 65-page status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 12. An interrogation report, including a copy of questionnaire as well as replies of Ram Rahim, was also filed along with the report. Have no role in sacrilege incidents: Ram Rahim to SITIn the interrogation report, which has been accessed by HT, Ram Rahim claimed to have no knowledge regarding most of the questions asked by the SIT and said the dera management may have some information. He said the dera management took most of the decisions without consulting him. “If the dera management has done something wrong, they are responsible for it,” he replied to another question. The dera chief told the SIT that he has no role in sacrilege incidents. When the SIT questioned about the whereabouts of three absconding members of dera’s national committee, who are key link in sacrilege cases, Ram Rahim denied having any information about them. ‘No link to Maur blasts’The dera chief also denied having any link to Maur bomb blasts and murder bid on his son’s father-in-law Harminder Jassi (former Congress MLA, at whose rally the blast took place on January 31, 2017). To a question on his claim of threat to his life in Punjab, the dera chief said: “Some terrorist organisations have already tried to kill me.” The SIT also questioned Ram Rahim how old currency notes were exchanged at the dera after demonetisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-sit-summons-2-dera-office-bearers-for-questioning-on-november-26-101637758403933.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Complaint against Kangana Ranaut: Statement hurt feelings of citizens, says NCP leader||A Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has filed a complaint against actress Kangana Ranaut before the metropolitan magistrate court at Borivli, over her statements regarding the Indian freedom struggle and sought to prosecute the actress for sedition, intentional insult, breach of peace, insulting the national flag and the Constitution of India. The complainant Yusuf Parmar, general secretary of NCP’s minority wing, through advocate Ashley Cusher, alleged that after receiving the Padma Shri award at the hands of President Ramnath Kovind, the actress made baseless statements on social media, as well as television shows, which caused disharmony among the society and resulted in holding several protests in various states. The actress, he said, again November 10, in an interview to a television channel criticised freedom fighters. “What we got in 1947 was not independence, it was alms/charity. We got freedom only in 2014,” she stated in the interview. Parmar claimed that the statement is offensive and hurt the feelings of ordinary citizens and more particularly, her statement attacked the Constitution of India. The complainant has further stated that the statement degraded the freedom fighters and martyrs of the nation, who have laid their lives for attaining independence. He added that he had submitted a written complaint to Malad police station against Ranaut on November 13, but no action was taken by the police. Parmar further said that the Delhi Women’s Commission has already written to the President of India, with a request to withdraw the Padma Shri awarded given to Ranaut for her remarks. The court has posted the matter for hearing on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/complaint-against-kangana-ranaut-statement-hurt-feelings-of-citizens-says-ncp-leader-101637757323792.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Noida airport to bring 12mn passenger traffic every year: Civil aviation secy||The Union civil aviation secretary on Wednesday said that a traffic of 12 million passengers each year is expected between the first phase and the final phase of the Noida international airport in Uttar Pradesh's Jewar, which is expected to be ready for flight operations by 2024.“The traffic of 12 million passengers per year is expected in the first phase and by the completion of the final phase, i.e. between 2040 and 2050, the capacity of Jewar airport will be to handle 70 million passengers per year,” civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said.The statement was made in the backdrop of the announcement that international passenger flights may be normalised by the end of this year. Bansal, however, clarified that the Jewar airport will start with domestic flights.“Project cost of phase 1 is ₹8,916 crore. The UP government is spending ₹4,326 crore on acquisition of land, rehabilitation and resettlement. PM Modi is personally monitoring the project,” the aviation secretary said.The Jewar airport is being built on 1,334 hectares of land, Bansal said. “It's a greenfield project that'll be implemented in four phases. The construction of the first phase is to be completed in 36 month and the operational period of the first phase will be 2023-27,” he added.Earlier on Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the proposed airport in Jewar would be ready for flights to take off and land by 2024. With this, Uttar Pradesh would be the only state in India to have five international air transit hubs.The airport in Gautam Budh Nagar district will be located 72km from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, 40km from Noida and about the similar distance from the multi-modal logistics hub at Dadri, and is conceived as the multi-modal connectivity hub owing to its proximity to the existing Yamuna Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and will also be linked to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh in Haryana's Faridabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-airport-to-bring-12mn-passenger-traffic-every-year-civil-aviation-secy-101637751867493.html
24-11-2021||Patna||Bihar governor meets Nitish Kumar to defuse university crisis, then flies to Delhi||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar called on Governor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday in the wake of growing differences between the Raj Bhawan and the state government over the next steps to be taken after corruption charges were levelled against some vice-chancellors, people aware of the matter said.Governor Chauhan was seen to be going soft on vice-chancellors suspected of corruption and other irregularities. Nitish Kumar and the state’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary have advocated a harsher line against top university officials suspected to have crossed the line.In a formal communication to the governor ahead of their meeting, Choudhary said Nitish Kumar asked Raj Bhavan to order a “comprehensive inquiry” into the “serious’ charges levelled by Prof Md Qudus, vice-chancellor of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University, against his predecessor. Wednesday’s meeting, viewed as an attempt to defuse the crisis, started at 12 noon and lasted for about half an hour. An hour later, governor Phagu Chauhan left for national capital Delhi where he was scheduled to meet Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, among others.Vijay Kumar Choudhary said he was not aware of the agenda for Kumar’s meeting with the governor but believes that it might be linked to the controversies around some vice-chancellors. “When the chief minister and governor meet, the conversation usually revolves around a whole range of issues,” he said. In the same breath, Choudhary added: “Higher education needs to be away from any kind of controversy as public perception is very important, and the CM always wants that.”Wednesday noon’s meeting between the two dignitaries came hours after the governor’s office changed its insistence on letting Magadh University vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad continue despite a vigilance raid at his house and office last week.Late on Tuesday evening, Raj Bhavan notified that Rajendra Prasad has suddenly gone on medical leave for a month. And unlike in the past when the vice-chancellor of another university was given additional charge, Raj Bhavan named Magadh University’s pro-vice-chancellor Vibhuti Narayan Singh to hold the fort.Magadh University’s finance officer Dharmendra Kumar Tripathi has put in his papers citing personal reasons.A government official said these changes indicated that there may be a change in Raj Bhavan’s approach in handling top university officials and more officials under a cloud could be eased out.After Nitish Kumar’s meeting with governor Chauhan, two names for appointment of vice-chancellor in Patna’s Pataliputra University and pro-vice-chancellor in Nalanda Open University (Patna) were also cleared.Prof RK Singh has been appointed vice-chancellor of Pataliputra University. Singh is from Bipin Tripathi Kumaon Institute of Technology, Uttarakhand, formerly known as Kumaon Engineering College. Sanjay Kumar, principal of BD College, Patna has been appointed pro-vice-chancellor of Nalanda Open University. “These were pending for a long time and have been cleared,” Robert L Chongthu, principal secretary to the governor, said.Pataliputra University has been without a full-time vice-chancellor for nearly a year. Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) vice-chancellor SP Singh, who was accused of corruption by another vice-chancellor, had been holding additional charge of Pataliputra University.Social analyst NK Choudhary said that the appointments should not put a lid on the larger issue of corruption in the institutions of higher learning. “Appointments are a routine affair and should be done transparently. It should not be reduced to give and take between the government and the Raj Bhawan. After so much hue and cry over corruption, it must be taken to its logical conclusion. A king should not only be honest but also appear to be honest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-governor-meets-nitish-kumar-to-defuse-university-crisis-then-flies-to-delhi-101637754863657.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may allow physical classes for students from class 1 to 4||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday cited a recommendation from a panel of experts and said it is likely to allow resumption of physical classes for class 1 to 4 students amid a decline in Covid-19 cases.Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state’s Covid-19 Paediatric Task Force has recommended physical classes should be resumed with social distancing and other norms in place. “The health department has no objection. Tomorrow (Thursday) at the state Cabinet meeting, I think the final decision may be taken.” Tope said the state government has asked the Centre to allow Covid-19 vaccination for the 12-18 age group. “We should start vaccination for children aged between 12-18... this is a vulnerable population .”Also Read | Vaccinations, herd immunity reducing active Covid cases in Maharashtra: ExpertsTope said health workers and those involved in essential services should be allowed to get booster doses. He added Maharashtra has administered 110 million vaccine doses. Tope said the state’s 40% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated. He added they cannot open all the facilities considering the situation in the US and Europe following a surge in the Delta variant of Covid-19. “In Maharashtra apart from Delta variant, no other variant has been found.”The number of active cases has fallen below the 10,000 level in the state and prompted the government to ease most restrictions..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-allow-resumption-of-physical-classes-for-students-from-class-1-to-4-101637751443371.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue staff on strike in Hoshiarpur after bribery case against naib tehsildar||On the call of the Punjab Revenue Officers Association, the entire revenue staff of Hoshiarpur district proceeded on mass leave to protest the false Vigilance case against Mahilpur naib tehsildar and three others. Also read: Hoshiarpur school closed after 3 students test positive for Covid-19A vigilance team arrested the naib tehsildar, a registry clerk, a deed writer and an assistant on Monday on charges of bribery. Revenue work remained suspended on Tuesday also even as representatives of the association met senior officials to represent the alleged corruption case. On not getting an assurance from the authorities, a decision was taken by the revenue officers’ body to go on mass leave till November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/revenue-staff-on-strike-in-hoshiarpur-after-bribery-case-against-naib-tehsildar-101637751143347.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: City’s watch and ward — famous and infamous kotwals of Pune||Morning papers this week announced revival of legendary yet controversial Marathi play ”Ghashiram Kotwal”, a political satire written by accomplished playwright, Vijay Tendulkar. Written in 70s decade, it commented on rise of political party and abuse of power, but was based on historical events during the Peshwa period and had taken cinematic liberty about historical events. The title itself is based on “Ghashiram” who served as Kotwal of Pune under supervision of prominent minister, Nana Phadnavis, who in turn served four Peshwas, including Madhavrao Peshwa I. Who was Ghashiram and what does it meant to be Kotwal of Pune? Let us trace the rise and fall of Kotwali system in Pune that operated during the 18th century Pune. Kotwali system existed since old times in India and we find reference of “Koshtapal” through various sources that were responsible for city’s law and order during Rashtrakuta period. Later in medieval times, during Tughlaq and Mughal rule, Kotwali system was prevalent in major cities, including Agra. When Pune functioned as a small village, Zambre (Patils) are seen responsible for maintaining law and order and Kulkarni the clerks and village balutedars such as Mahars would help them in executing the functions of watch and ward. Kasba peth till few years back had the platform which once hosted the “Zambre Chawadi (office)” – from where the system operated. As Pune under Nanasaheb Peshwa grew, peths flourished, “Shravan Ramna” became a yearly affair, people practising various trades flocked Pune. These surges of new groups came to Pune in search of employment, opportunity, patronage and new home from across the country. Just as Katraj aquaduct provide water supply, redevelopment and establishment peths made way to development of housing and trade, a necessity to develop a system of watch and ward emerged, too. This became more evident after the attack and ransacking of Pune by Nizam in 1762. The earliest sanad document from year 1764 informs us about appointment of Balaji Narayan Ketkar as a Kotwal or “Chief Commissioner of Police” of Pune city. Before that, Kotwal had limited functions and would only supervise the customs, toll, octroi related activities. In 1764, Kotwali department was a full-fledged organisation who would look after law and order in the city, punishment of related offence and assisted in collection of revenue. This system was independent of the military system, operated within the city boundaries and functioned as a modern police department. The main operating station “Chavadi” was at Budhwar peth next to present day Dagdhusheth Datta temple and flower market, and it was assisted by other branches of chavdis in five different peth areas. Ghashiram Kotwal, one of the longest serving Kotwals of Pune, established two chavadis at Narayan peth and Shaniwar peth. He was also responsible for establishment of Navapura peth where next Kotawal, Anandrao Kashi established a chavadi. The department had bureaucratic officers such as Sar-amin, Amin, Diwan, Mujumdar, Fadnis, Daptardar and Potnis who would receive annual income. Under them, various clerks, (shibandi) inspectors, constables, office staff and (Najarbaaj or khabri) detectives would operate on monthly salaries to execute and process the orders. Kotwali department served functions of city corporation, city survey office, public service department and information broadcasting along with its primary function of policing. During Peshwa times, the city would be under curfew from 11 pm to 4 am and any person breaking the rule would be arrested. For this, the Kotwali soldiers would undertake night patrol. They were responsible for conducting police enquiry procedures for various crimes. Prostitution, gambling, illegal consumption of liquor and non-vegetarian food in public was punished. The weights and standards used in trade and measurements were approved and sanctioned (Bat-chhapai) by the department. They were responsible for revenue functions of valuation of properties, taxes, standardisation of market prices (Nirakh) and enforcing them. The inheritance of dead person without legal heir was deposited in state treasury through their agency. Corporation functions of cremation of unclaimed dead bodies, sanitation and construction of waste water gutters was part of the portfolio. Through “Davandi” or beating of drums department would inform public of the important government announcements. Department was responsible for collecting taxes on remarriage of widows, adoption, goat slaughter, trade, and oils and it contributed sizeably in department’s income. Kotwali would maintain records of bonded labour for certain caste and kept records of the clans and communities that entered and departed the city. Through entire history of Kotwali system in 18th century in Pune, we find exhaustive records of 23 different appointments of Kotwali. Of this, Ghashiram Kotwal and Anandrao Kashi are the most dominant ones. Ghashiram Savladas was Kanauji Gaud Brahmin from Aurangabad who came to Pune to explore better prospects. Within short duration, he acquired prominent position in Peshwa courts through his handsome face, sharp intellect and great oratory. He was appointed incharge of Kotwal office twice, once, for a year in 1777 and later for a decade long tenure during 1781 to 1791. In initial years he showed great promise by establishing firm hold over city’s law and order, set up new chavdis and increased the Kotwali staff per chavadi. He was responsible for major civil works, had setup peth Navapura and commissioned building of lake at Hadapsar to address water woes. He had built a large mansion for himself near Pulgate. He gained favour with Nana Phadnavis who was minister incharge of Kotwal system by efficiently handling Sawai Madhavrao’s wedding organisation in Pune. For that and on many other occasions he was showered with large sum of gifts from treasury by Nana Phadnavis. He won Nana’s confidence particularly, through his efficient network of spies who reported on Raghoba Dada’s activities against the state. However, in absence of restraint, Ghashiram started abusing the power. He started harassing the masses through his officers’ and started slipping in his accounting responsibilities. Nana Phadnavis, on complaints of his subordinates such as Pandurang Bedekar, warned him on number of occasions but it was all in vain. His insolence and arrogance however brought his downfall! During “Shravan Ramna” of 1791, few Telangi Brahmins camping near Ghashiram Kotwal’s mansion raided his garden to eat maize. The gardener thrashed the Brahmins and complained to Ghashiram Kotwal who arrested them and put them in a dungeon with no supply of air. This resulted in horrific death of 21 Brahmins. When Peshwa asked Nana Phadnavis about the whereabouts of missing Brahmins, Ghashiram Kotwal lied through the teeth and said the Brahmins indulged in theft and died of consumption of opium drugs. He also refused to hand over the dead bodies. A full-scale enquiry was commissioned by Nana, but crowd disrupted the proceedings. Ghashiram was arrested by Nana. However, thousands of enraged Telangi Brahmins gathered, confiscated Ghashiram from the custody, paraded him culminating into his violent public prosecution by the mob. Within few years of this episode, nature of Kotwali system was altered drastically by Bajirao II and it ceased to exist around end of century. Originally responsible for Pune’s law & order of Pune, the abuse of power and corruption brought end to the crucial public institution! An important history lesson for all times! Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-city-s-watch-and-ward-famous-and-infamous-kotwals-of-pune-101637751023969.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: RD Sharma is Shiromani Akali Dal’s Ludhiana North candidate||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday announced RD Sharma as the SAD candidate from Ludhiana (North) constituency for the 2022 assembly elections. With the announcement, the SAD has announced a total of 84 candidates. Also read: Sukhbir opposes appointment of SFJ leader Pannun’s brother as Genco chiefSharma, a three-time councillor from Ludhiana has also remained the deputy mayor of city’s municipal corporation. At present, his mother is the councillor from the ward that Sharma represented. He joined the SAD after quitting the BJP along with former minister Anil Joshi in August. After severing a two-decade-old alliance with the BJP, the SAD has entered into a pre-poll arrangement with the Bahujan Samaj Party, giving them 20 seats to contest in the Punjab elections. The SAD will contest 97 of the 117 assembly seats. On Tuesday, the SAD had swapped the Ludhiana (North) seat with alliance partner BSP along with Mohali and in place it has gave Raikot and Dinanagar to its ally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-rd-sharma-is-shiromani-akali-dal-s-ludhiana-north-candidate-101637750243123.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||After dip in 2020, dengue cases see a six-fold rise||Mumbai The city has recorded over six-fold rise in the cases of dengue this year. Data released by the civic body showed that the city saw 821 cases of the mosquito-borne disease as of November 23, compared to 129 cases in all of 2020. This rise is mainly due to the fact that the pandemic and ensuing lockdown led to reduced mobility and less testing in 2020. In 2019, 920 dengue cases were recorded in the city. The city’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said the situation is under control if the cases are compared to the previous years. Civic officials said reduced mobility of people played a crucial role in the decline in cases in 2020. A section of the population could have also gone untested, as the manpower in the laboratories was largely directed towards Covid-19 related work, and such patients may have simply relied on online consultation for treatment. “Now that mobility has increased, people are stepping out to go to offices, markets and walks. All these activities automatically increase the chances of mosquito bites,” said Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine at the civic-run Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, Sion. He has been admitting six to eight confirmed cases of dengue every week. “But many patients are coming to our hospital from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR),” he said. Dengue is spread by the female Aedes Aegypti mosquito that breeds in clean water and is known to be a day-biter. The symptoms include fever, joint pain, severe body ache, rashes, persistent vomiting and nasal bleeding. There is no direct treatment for dengue and most interventions are for symptomatic relief. The infection is caused by one of the four closely related serotypes of the dengue virus (DENV) identified as DENV-1, DENV-2, DENV-3, and DENV-4. Studies have shown that the DENV-2 accounts for the maximum number of cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra. According to Dr Karnik, many dengue patients are being admitted to hospitals with severely low platelet count, neurological complications like altered sensorium and renal involvements. “Such patients require Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions. When patients come with a platelet count below 10,000, it becomes a huge risk factor for bleeding in the brain,” said Dr Karnik citing a case of a 25-year-old full-term pregnant woman whose platelet count had fallen to 5000. “We had to keep her in the ICU, give about seven units of platelet transfusion and wait till her count went up to 80,000. She delivered a week later without any complications,” he said. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said there have been a fairly high number of dengue cases since September. “The jump definitely cannot be trivialised,” he said adding that he generally avoids admitting dengue patients unless they have a risk factor involved. “A majority of the dengue patients can be managed at home,” he said. “We are also getting a lot of patients with classic viral symptoms who are not testing positive for dengue, chikungunya or malaria,” said Dr Paritosh Baghel, an internal medicine consultant at SL Raheja Hospital (a Fortis associate hospital). “These patients have a fever, joint pain, body aches, rashes as well as low platelet counts. We commonly label them as cases of unknown viral illness,” he said. The city has also recorded 60 cases of chikungunya- another viral infection spread by the infected Aedes Aegypti mosquito- this year, after zero cases consecutively in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-dip-in-2020-dengue-cases-see-a-six-fold-rise-101637749943179.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hoshiarpur school closed after 3 students test positive for Covid-19||PD Arya Mahila Senior Secondary School in Hoshiarpur has been closed following the detection of three Covid-19 cases, principal Timatni Ahluwalia said on Wednesday. Also read: 13 school students among 23 people test Covid positive in Punjab’s MuktsarThe health department conducted random sampling of the students last week and found three positive cases. Epidemiologist DP Singh denied that any educational institution had been closed due to Covid-19 and civil surgeon Parminder Kaur too was unaware of any such development but school authorities confirmed that their institution had been closed for students till November 29 after the three students tested positive for coronavirus infection. “It was on the suggestion of the health authorities that we shut down the school,” Ahluwalia said, adding that the affected students, who were under quarantine, would be tested again before they are allowed to join school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoshiarpur-school-closed-after-3-students-test-positive-for-covid19-101637749883333.html
24-11-2021||Indore||Indore civic body honours sanitation workers after 'cleanest city' tag||As Indore bagged the tag of 'cleanest city' for the fifth time in a row, the municipal corporation organised a program to honour the sanitation workers.The program was organised on Tuesday where the Municipal corporation employees performed tribal dance. The sanitation workers were given gifts for their works.While speaking to ANI, the Commissioner of Indore Municipal Corporation, Pratibha Pal, said, "We will work in the same way this year as we have been working in the last 5 years and will keep our claim firmly.""The workers of cleanliness were being honoured. We express our gratitude towards them. The awards have been given in cleanliness, Swachh Bharat Mission-ODF," added Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-civic-body-honours-sanitation-workers-after-cleanest-city-tag-101637747108697.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi eases pollution-related curbs; schools, govt offices to reopen on Nov 29||Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai announced the easing of pollution-related curbs in a phased manner on Wednesday. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will open on November 29, along with government offices, whose employees have been working from home.The measures were imposed by the government last week to tackle the escalating pollution crisis in the Capital. Entry of CNG and electric trucks carrying non-essential items from other states into New Delhi will be allowed from Saturday, the minister said. The ban on petrol and diesel trucks, however, will remain in place until December 3. “For the last three days, we have observed a reduction in the pollution levels in Delhi. We have decided to ease the restrictions, but a strict watch will be kept on the sources [of pollution],” Rai told reporters. The state government and affiliated offices had switched to work-from-home mode for their staff since November 17 to cut down on the use of private vehicles. Also Read: ‘We will not close this matter’: Supreme Court to Centre on Delhi air pollutionThe minister said that the government is providing special shuttle buses from the secretariat to nearby metro stations to encourage people to use the metro instead of their own vehicles. “Construction activities have already been allowed, but we are keeping a close watch on the sites. If any violation is found, we will temporarily ban operations and impose heavy fines,” Rai said. The minister said that till Wednesday, 1,221 construction sites were inspected by 585 teams deployed by the government across Delhi, with 105 sites shut down for violating dust-related norms. “These sites were not adhering to the 14-point guideline we had issued. They have been shut down and a penalty has also been imposed,” Rai said.After a slew of pollution control measures were implemented by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the Delhi-NCR region and adjoining areas on November 16, the Delhi government imposed restrictions, extended a ban on the entry of trucks, continued to keep schools shut, and allowed its employees to work from home in a fresh order released last Sunday.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private schools in New Delhi as its members, welcomed the government’s decision to resume in-person classes in school. Acharya said that schooling had been disrupted due to constant closures and it was necessary for students to return to classrooms. “The reopening of schools was much needed. Students have stayed away from school for a very long time and it’s time that they return to the classrooms,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.The Delhi government’s decision came on a day when the city’s air quality began to deteriorate as wind speeds slowed down over the Capital. New Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was “poor” on Tuesday - for the first time since November 1 - with a reading of 290 recorded, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. The AQI reading shot up to 365 – in the “very poor” category - at 2pm on Wednesday. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said New Delhi will continue to see variations in the air quality, with meteorological factors playing a key role. To counter that, it is important to ensure strict vigilance so that extreme curbs don’t need to be imposed again, she said.“Air quality will improve and worsen all through this winter now, but it is important that adequate measures are taken in advance so that we don’t reach those severe [pollution] levels. Pollution from construction sites and garbage burning can easily be controlled. We also need to see what can be done to reduce emissions from the vehicular sector. While the government is trying to promote public transport, it is also turning out to be a big challenge,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-eases-pollution-related-curbs-schools-govt-offices-to-reopen-on-nov-29-101637747483030.html
24-11-2021||Patna||3, including MBBS student, held for selling banned foreign liquor in Bihar||The Bihar Police on Tuesday arrested three persons, including an MBBS student, for allegedly selling banned Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL).The police recovered 300 bottles of IMFL from their houses. The police have arrested Vikas Singh, his wife who is an MBBS student and their tenant.Raghav Dayal, SDPO Sadar, said, "Vikas Singh, his entire family and a tenant were involved in selling banned liquor in the state. We have recovered 300 bottles of liquor. They have been arrested and sent to jail."Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-including-mbbs-student-held-for-selling-banned-foreign-liquor-in-bihar-101637739924693.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools, govt offices to open from Nov 29 as air quality improves||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday announced that government offices in the national capital will open from November 29. The announcement comes as the air quality in Delhi has shown a significant improvement, coming down from the "very poor" to the "poor" category on Wednesday for the first time in the last 10 days, as per the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Gopal Rai also announced that schools, colleges and other educational institutes can reopen from November 29 in view of the improved air quality. The schools and colleges in Delhi were shut on November 13 due to high air pollution levels. Classes are being held through online medium.Rai also said that special shuttle buses will run from the Delhi secretariat to the nearby metro stations to encourage public transport.Also read | 'We will not close this matter': Supreme Court to Centre on Delhi air pollutionEarlier, the Delhi government lifted the ban on construction and demolition (C&D) activities across the capital, citing an improvement in air quality. However, Gopal Rai on Wednesday said that construction activities will be temporarily stopped if any violation is seen at the sites.The minister said only CNG and electric vehicles, barring those engaged in essential services, will be allowed to enter Delhi from November 27. The ban on the entry of vehicles operating on other fuels will remain till December 3, Rai said. The set of fresh intructions came after Gopal Rai held a high-level meeting to review restrictions imposed in the national capital to check air pollution.The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi stood at 280 on Wednesday. As per the SAFAR, the PM 10 levels were recorded at 58 in the 'satisfactory' category and PM 2.5 levels were recorded at 38 in the 'satisfactory' category.According to the SAFAR bulletin, from November 27 onwards local surface winds are likely to increase which will result in improvement of air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-govt-offices-to-open-from-nov-29-as-air-quality-improves-101637742971693.html
24-11-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur doctors remove 20-year-old tumour weighing 8.5kg from woman's liver||A hospital in Rajasthan' Jaipur performed an eight-hour-long surgery to remove a 20-year-old tumour weighing 8.5 Kg from the liver of a 54-year-old female patient, the hospital said on Wednesday."The tumour weighed 8.5 kilos and had grown to a life-threatening size of 15.7 inches, over two decades. The patient had visited multiple hospitals, but all of them refused treatment owing to the size of the tumour and the risk involved in the surgery. A multi-disciplinary approach was adopted to remove the tumour from the liver," read a statement issued by Fortis Escorts Hospital, Jaipur.Elaborating on the case, Dr Sundeep Jain, Director, Department of Gastro Surgery, Fortis Escorts Hospital, Jaipur said, "The biopsy results revealed that the patient was suffering from a very rare type of tumour- a mammary type myofibroblastoma in the liver. After a careful medical evaluation, we decided that the tumour would be removed surgically. It was a challenging case as the tumour was massive in size and located in the central part of the liver.He further said, "There were a lot of risks involved during the operation as removing the tumour was itself a challenge. While operating, we also had to save the blood vessels (supply blood to both sides of the liver). It took us 8 hours to remove the tumour. The postoperative period was smooth and uneventful. The patient was discharged after 11 days of hospital stay."The patient who underwent the surgery said, "I am relieved from the pain which I had been facing for the past 20 years. I had visited multiple hospitals and had lost all hopes as many hospitals had refused to treat me. The tumour grew over the years posing a risk to my health. Finally, I am thankful to the doctors at Fortis Hospital for giving me a new life. By successful removal of the tumour.""Congratulations to the doctor's team, in achieving another clinical milestone by giving a new lease of life to the patient. This was a rare case and the risk involved in the surgery was challenging. At Fortis Jaipur, we aim to provide patient care with the latest technology. Fortis Jaipur specializes in gastroenterology treatment backed by a team of expert doctors," said Neerav Bansal, Zonal Director, Fortis Escorts Hospital, Jaipur, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-doctors-remove-20-year-old-tumour-weighing-8-5kg-from-woman-s-liver-101637740232656.html
24-11-2021||Bhopal||MP to get cyber tehsil, first in the country: Narottam Mishra||Madhya Pradesh Cabinet on Tuesday approved the proposal to create cyber tehsils, informed Home Minister Narottam Mishra, adding that the state will be the first across the country to do so."Madhya Pradesh will be the first state which is going to create Cyber Tehsil. Today this proposal has been passed by the cabinet," Mishra said while addressing media persons here on Tuesday.He also said that Cyber Tehsil will make the mutation process easy and people from anywhere in the state can avail of its benefit."With the introduction of this system, the process of conversion will become convenient in the cases of undisputed land," Mishra said.The Home Minister further informed that the Cabinet has decided to launch 'Urja Saksharta Abhiyan' from November 25 to make citizens energy literate."Urja Saksharta Abhiyan will be run in Madhya Pradesh from November 25. Schools, colleges and the general public will be connected with this campaign. Madhya Pradesh will become the first state to run India's energy literacy campaign on a big scale," the minister said.While briefing the media, he also said that the Cabinet has decided to send the Central government a proposal to name Patalpani railway station after Tantya Mama.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had earlier announced that Patalpani railway station in Indore will be renamed as Tantya Mama railway station."Tribal pride, Mama Tantya Bhil's sacrifice day is on December 4. Indore Bus Stand and Patalpani Railway Station will be named after Tantya Mama," he had said.Mishra also said that a program will be organised on December 4 in Indore to mark the day."Two trips will be taken out for the program. The first journey will start from Ahir village of Pandhana, the birthplace of Tantya Mama and the second from Sailana and will reach Indore via Dhar via different districts," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-get-cyber-tehsil-first-in-the-country-narottam-mishra-101637739906495.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir opposes appointment of SFJ leader Pannun’s brother as Genco chief||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday slammed the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab over last week’s appointment of Balwant Singh Kotlabama as the chairman of Punjab Genco Limited, a subsidiary of Punjab Energy Development Authority (PEDA). Also read: 13 school students among 23 people test Covid positive in Punjab’s MuktsarKotlabama is the brother of US-based Avtar Singh Pannun, a key office-bearer of the banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), and is also considered close to state cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Kotlabama belongs to Bajwa’s constituency of Fatehgarh Churian. Sukhbir raised objection to the appointment while talking to reporters during a public meeting at Chabbewal on Tuesday. He sought an explanation from Channi on the matter. While chief minister Channi was not available for comment, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said he stood by Kotlabama. “He and his brother Pannun are different and have no connection. Kotlabama is a staunch Congressman. He is my right hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-opposes-appointment-of-sfj-leader-pannun-s-brother-as-genco-chief-101637740222352.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||First train to Ayodhya under Delhi govt’s free pilgrimage scheme to leave on Dec 3||Nearly a month after announcing the inclusion of Ayodhya under its free pilgrimage scheme, the Delhi government on Wednesday said that the first train will leave for Uttar Pradesh town on December 3. Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal made the announcement at a press conference. “Our first train for Ayodhya will be leaving on December 3, registrations have started,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The CM further stated that the Delhi government has also added Tamil Nadu’s Velankanni Church in the list of pilgrimage sites under the scheme for senior citizens of the national capital.Last month, the Delhi cabinet gave a go-ahead to the inclusion of Ayodhya as one of the pilgrimage sites under the scheme.The first train to Ayodhya under the scheme will carry as many as 1,000 senior citizens of Delhi, PTI reported citing Kamal Bansal, chairman of the Delhi government’s Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti.“There is a great demand from senior citizens for the pilgrimage scheme…Pilgrims for other places will be sent after preparations are complete,” Bansal was quoted as saying by PTI.Notably, the AAP-led Delhi government bears the expenditure of the pilgrims under the 'Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana' for their pilgrimage to a total of 13 religious sites, including Shirdi, Haridwar, Mathura, Vaishno Devi, Vrindavan and Puri, among others.Since the scheme is for elderly people, one attendant aged 21 or more can accompany the person and Delhi government will bear his/her expenses as well.Also Read | 'Good schools, hospital for Uttarakhand, too, if voted': Kejriwal bats for AAP's CM faceKejriwal has promised the same free pilgrimage schemes in Goa and Uttarakhand as well, where assembly elections are scheduled next year. During his recent visit to Uttarakhand, he said that if AAP is voted to power, it will provide senior citizens with free pilgrimage facilities to Ramjanma Bhoomi in Ayodhya for Hindus, Ajmer Sharif for Muslims and Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan - that was recently reopened - for Sikhs residing in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-pilgrimage-to-ayodhya-first-train-to-leave-on-dec-3-announces-kejriwal-101637738720785.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||#OddEven in Delhi: Effective or eyewash? Denizens divided||Gearing up to work from office or hit the road for a getaway? Hold that thought; you may need to check number plates of your vehicles, for the return of odd-even is imminent. To curb alarming pollution levels, the Delhi government is mulling over bringing back the traffic scheme, according to which one can drive only odd/even numbered vehicles in the Capital, based on the last digit of their number plates. While some feel this will help control smog, others denizens are of the opinion that it is nothing more than an eyewash At last, a start“Anything that we can do to curb pollution will make a difference. And we must go for it. Our office has always supported this and will accommodate it this time as well. During the pandemic, everyone has been working from home and I’m sure in this scenario too, the corporate sector will support the WFH option for the ease of employees following odd-even,” says Charu Puri, marketing professional from Safdarjung Enclave. “Odd-even certainly helped reduced traffic on the roads in the past, and possibly helped in controlling pollution as well. There is no denying that it encourages people to use public transport. Though it causes some inconvenience, especially to those who don’t have an alternative personal vehicle, but it also encourages carpooling among both the private and government sector employees. The Supreme Court and High Court judges have adopted carpooling voluntarily. If they can, why can’t the rest do so, to ensure a better environment for our future generations,” asks Nidhi Dhull, advocate from Saket. “Vehicular smoke makes it tough for people to breathe. I’ve seen children suffer during smog and the pollutants that come out of any of these cars make it tougher for people to breathe. If the number of vehicles on the roads can be reduced, it would definitely be beneficial. But a well laid public transport system is the real solution in the long run,” says Dr Anuradha Kishore, a paediatrician from New Friends Colony. Just an eyewash!“The core issues need to be addressed first. If those issues are not dealt with, odd-even won’t be of any help. During Covid-19 lockdown, traffic was not an issue. But now, with everything going back to new normal, people have started travelling in personal vehicles and the increased traffic makes me think that no odd-even can free Delhi from traffic jams! I feel the if construction and all is halted, it would be more effective than implementation of this rule,” says Dr Mahima Sabherwal from Ashram.“It’s the uncertainty of the situation which is getting to me. We were planning a road trip to a location close by. Ab beech main yeh odd-even ho gaya toh we’ll be stuck! Also, is this really a solution? I mean they need to give prior notice much in advance and also have a plan in place. How did it even help the last time,” says Rohit Raj, an investment banker from Greater Kailash II. “What will this odd and even scheme even do? It’s not like things will improve a lot after it’s implemented. But the amount of inconvenience that it’s going to create will be grave. After the pandemic, the economy is struggling to bounce back, and such rules will only make it difficult for people to get back to offices, schools, etc. The government ought to make rules and adopt measures that will actually do something to curb pollution,” says Ravi Sarda, a businessman from Model Town. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oddeven-in-delhi-effective-or-eyewash-denizens-divided-101637735724783.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three tremors rattle Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi, Shimla overnight||A series of three earthquakes jolted Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi and Shimla districts on Tuesday night and early on Wednesday. Also read: Over 300 people come together to rescue fish from drying up Dal Lake in DharamshalaThe first quake measuring 3.9 on the Richter scale was felt at 10.02pm on Tuesday. The epicentre was in Mandi district at a depth of 10km. It was followed by another tremor of 2.5-magnitude at 2.21am on Wednesday. The quake occurred at a depth of 5km with its epicentre in Shimla. The third quake struck at 2.33am. Its magnitude was 2.2 on the Richter scale. The epicentre was in Shimla at a depth of 5km. No loss of life or damage to property was reported in any of the three incidents. Himachal Pradesh falls in the highly sensitive seismic zone. A series of minor quakes have been felt in the region over the past few days. The biggest ever to strike the Himalayan state felt was on April 4, 1905. The 7.8-magnitude earthquake had razed the entire Kangra valley and left 20,000 people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-tremors-rattle-himachal-pradesh-s-mandi-shimla-overnight-101637733622004.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Security tightened outside Gambhir’s house following alleged death threat||The Delhi Police on Wednesday morning enhanced security outside Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament Gautam Gambhir’s residence in Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar area after he received an email that allegedly threatened to kill him and his family.People aware of the matter said the former cricketer told police he received a threatening mail from “ISIS Kashmir” and approached the police on Wednesday morning.A police officer confirmed that security has been increased outside Gambhir’s house and that an investigation into the alleged death threat has been initiated.Also Read: Three persons with LeT links arrested for killing salesman in SrinagarIn a letter to the deputy police commissioner (central) Shweta Chauhan, the MP said he received the threat email from some group called “ISIS Kashmir”, which read, “We’re going to kill you and your family.” He urged the police to register a First Information Report on the matter apart from providing him enhanced security.Gambhir was immediately unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-tightened-outside-gautam-gambhir-s-house-following-alleged-death-threat-101637733022968.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Driverless operations on Delhi Metro's Pink Line to start on Thursday||The Delhi Metro will see a driverless train run on one of its corridors on Thursday. The inauguration will be done by Union minister for housing and urban affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on the Pink Line.According to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DRMC), the inauguration will take place at 11.30am via video-conferencing.Currently, only the Magenta Line has trains operating without any manual intervention - in UTO (Unattended Train Operation) mode. The driverless train operations on that route - India's first - were inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 28 last year.He had said that unlike its predecessors, the present government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken growing urbanisation as an opportunity and asserted that metro train services would be extended to 25 cities by 2025 from the current 18.The Pink Line, which connects Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar was made functional in 2019, a small stretch between Mayur Vihar pocket-1 and Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake stations was stuck due to land acquisition and rehabilitation issues. That stretch was inaugurated in August this year, making Pink Line the longest single Metro corridor in Delhi, spanning 59 kilometres.With the operationalisation of the entire Pink Line ‘Ring Corridor’, the total metro network in the national capital reached 390 kilometres with 285 stations. This includes the Noida-Greater Noida Metro Corridor and the Rapid Metro in Gurugram.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic had majorly affected operations of the Delhi Metro.Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC's first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driverless-operations-on-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-to-start-on-thursday-101637732683714.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||13 school students among 23 people test Covid positive in Punjab’s Muktsar||Thirteen students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Muktsar district were among 23 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the south Malwa region of Punjab since Tuesday morning. Also read: Does vaccination protect against long Covid? Here’s what studies suggestHealth officials said the school and a residential locality in Bathinda’s Rampura Phul town had been declared micro-containment zones on Tuesday. Muktsar civil surgeon Ranju Singla said a student of JNV at Warring Khera was diagnosed with Covid-19 last Thursday. After testing, 13 more students were found infected with coronavirus infection on Tuesday. “Among the 14 infected, 12 are girls. They have all been isolated at the school hostel and are under medical observation. Our teams tested 400 other students and school staff and they tested negative,” she said. Bathinda chief medical officer Dr TS Dhillon said five members of a family at Rampura Phul tested positive on Tuesday. “The family had recently travelled to a few places and we have yet to ascertain the possible source of infection. Patients have been advised home isolation. A residential pocket at Janta Nagar, street number 14, at Rampura Phul has been sealed and house-to-house testing is underway,” he said. The number of active cases in Bathinda is 20 and one death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district on Tuesday. Meanwhile, four people tested positive in Faridkot district and one person was found infected with coronavirus in Mansa district on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-school-students-among-23-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-muktsar-101637732421647.html
24-11-2021||Kolkata||Civic elections in West Bengal: Calcutta high court to hear BJP’s petition today||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday is scheduled to hear a petition on holding simultaneous elections to all civic bodies in West Bengal. The state election commission is expected to take a decision on the schedule of the poll dates after the high court passes its order. The Trinamool Congress (TMC)-ruled state government wants to hold the civic polls in phases, starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has moved the high court demanding simultaneous elections to all civic bodies. Elections to 114 civic bodies are pending for more than a year. The TMC controls most of the civic bodies in West Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over two years ago, but polls were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: Mamata likely to meet Modi today; BSF issue, developmental talks on chartsThe state election commission has told the high court that it wants to hold the municipal polls in phases starting with Kolkata and Howrah. A senior official of the state election commission said the poll panel has told the high court that at least 85% people in Kolkata and around 55% people in Howrah are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, and hence, the commission seeks to hold the elections in these two civic bodies first. Also on Tuesday, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar called on state election commissioner (SEC) Saurabh Das to not become “an extension” of the Mamata Banerjee government, while observing that he has received multiple inputs indicating that the poll panel has conceded its constitutional mandate and authority, and was toeing the state government’s line. “Cautioned Shri Saurav Das that SEC @MamataOfficial toeing the line of state government and be merely its executing agency, would be an outrage of the Constitution as also unwholesome for the democratic process. It will run down essence and spirit of constitutional provisions in Part IXA,” Dhankhar tweeted. Responding to Dhankhar’s interaction with the state’s top election official and his public posts, TMC minister Tapas Roy said, “The governor can always give advice to anyone, but he surely knows that the state election commission is an independent body, just like the Election Commission of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/civic-elections-in-west-bengal-calcutta-high-court-to-hear-bjp-s-petition-today-101637731101796.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir claims receiving death threats from ISIS, approaches police||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Delhi and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir claimed that he has received death threats from 'ISIS Kashmir', according to news agency ANI on Wednesday.Shweta Chauhan, DCP central, told ANI that Gambhir has approached the Delhi Police in this regard. “Gautam Gambhir has received death threats from 'ISIS Kashmir' through e-mail. Security has been beefed up outside Gambhir's residence,” Chauhan added.In a letter to the police, Gambhir divulged details of the email, which he claims was sent by ISIS Kashmir. It read that the terrorist group is going to kill him and his family.The BJP MP has been a vocal critic of cross-border terrorism from Pakistan. In February this year, Gambhir had said that there should be any kind of relations with Pakistan till the issue of cross border terrorism is over. He added that the life of Indian soldiers is more important than anything else.Last year, Gambhir slammed Pakistani cricketer Shahid Afridi over his remarks on Jammu and Kashmir and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Taking to Twitter, Afridi had raked up the issued of Kashmir on May 15 last year by saying "It does not take a religious belief to feel the agony of Kashmiris..just a right heart at the right place.“It is unfortunate. Such comments are a reflection of your (Shahid) and your country's (Pakistan) thinking,” Gambhir had said on May 17, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gautam-gambhir-claims-receiving-death-threats-from-isis-approaches-police-101637728724060.html
24-11-2021||Mumbai||Vaccinations, herd immunity reducing active Covid cases in Maharashtra: Experts||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 766 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 fatalities from the disease, taking the overall tally of infections to 6,631,297 and the death toll to 140,766.Experts, meanwhile, said the state was seeing an overall decline in active Covid-19 cases largely because of two factors: the anti-Covid vaccination drive and herd immunity.Mumbai recorded 190 new coronavirus cases and one death with its tally of fatalities reaching 16,311. A total of 87,506 Covid-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours across Maharashtra, and 929 people recovered from the infection on Tuesday.The daily Covid-19 test positivity rate for the state was 0.87%.Also Read: K’taka issues new RT-PCR test norms for people coming from MaharashtraPune had earlier been leading in terms of the number of active Covid-19 cases for months, followed by Thane. However, due to a recent surge in cases, Mumbai now has the most number of active coronavirus infections.Of the 9,493 active cases, Mumbai has the highest, with 2,561, followed by Pune (2,027) and Thane (1,160).State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the decline in active Covid-19 cases is directly proportional to the number of new infections. “The decrease in active cases indicates the decline in Covid-19 infections. Our sustained efforts to control the virus are bearing the fruit in the form of a lower number of new cases,” he said.During the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, 691,851 active cases were reported in the state on April 23. The figure was below 20,000 on October 27 and less than 30,000 on October 13.Dr Ameet Mandot, director at Gut Clinic, said vaccinations against the coronavirus disease and herd immunity together led to a decline in numbers. “Vaccination has played a vital role in the decline in cases, and it helped in reducing severity [of the disease] in infected people. Also, people are developing herd immunity. These factors are hugely responsible for the control of the virus,” said Dr Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccinations-herd-immunity-reducing-active-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-experts-101637726001091.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi minister to hold meeting to review restrictions in city to check pollution||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai will hold a high-level meeting to review restrictions imposed in the national capital to check air pollution, an informed source.Rai had held a high-level meeting with senior government officials on November 22 to chalk out plans to curb the air pollution in the city and had assured that the Delhi Government is making efforts to check air pollution.He had also directed Delhi government employees to continue working from home till November 26."All Delhi government employees will continue working from home till November 26. Truck entries, except essential commodities, shall remain closed till November 26. We are planning to grant entry to CNG trucks," he said."Prevailing pollution in Delhi has now been decreasing, due to various measures taken against it and the change in wind speed. Keeping this in mind, the ban on demolition and construction has now been taken back, but strict monitoring will continue," he had said.Rai conveyed a strong message over the relaxed pollution norms saying, "Any site caught violating the 14-point guidelines, for controlling pollution, will be shut without notice and imposed with penalty and strict proceedings. We have constituted 585 joint monitoring teams with DPCC, Revenue and MCDs."As per the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR), the air quality in the national capital remained in the 'poor' category on Wednesday morning.The overall Air Quality Index is at 280 with PM concentration of 2.5. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-to-hold-meeting-to-review-restrictions-in-city-to-check-pollution-101637724398086.html
24-11-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka issues new RT-PCR test norms for people coming from Maharashtra||The Karnataka government has released fresh guidelines waiving the requirement of carrying RT-PCR test for people who are returning to the state from neighbouring Maharashtra. The new rules, however, will be applicable for a short stay - of just two days.“Those returning from Maharashtra to their home town in Karnataka within two days of their stay in Maharashtra shall comply with the following for the waiver of the RT-PCR test/report,” according to an official circular issued on Tuesday.The new guidelines state:> The above passengers should have a two-dose vaccination certificate against Covid-19 and 14 days should have lapsed after the administration of the second dose.> The passengers should be strictly free from any Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, difficulty in breathing, throat pain etc.Karnataka Govt lays down conditions for waiver of RT-PCR test requirement for those returning to their homes in Karnataka within two days of their stay in Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/9tXiyYEgyL> They should self-monitor their health for seven days on return, duly complying with all Covid-related protocols and get themselves tested immediately if they develop any symptoms.> The passengers should also show a valid travel ticket of both to and fro journey to ensure two days of stay in Maharashtra.The above circular said that concerned district administration should ensure that all these guidelines are strictly complied, in the larger interest of public health.Previously, the Karnataka government on November 8 issued guidelines for people arriving from Maharashtra for a very short period. Such passengers from Maharashtra had to undergo thermal screening upon arrival to Karnataka and had to present a full vaccination certificate. However, they were exempted from showing the RT-PCR test report.Till now, Karnataka has reported nearly three million cases, 38,182 deaths, 2,949,083 recoveries and 6,707 active cases due to the coronavirus disease. On Tuesday, the state reported a slight high of 224 new infections while five patients died and 379 got discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-k-taka-issues-new-rt-pcr-test-norms-for-people-coming-from-maharashtra-101637720454287.html
24-11-2021||Patna||JD(U) to celebrate 15 years of CM Nitish Kumar’s governance in Bihar today||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar will on Wednesday hold celebrations at 40 locations in the state to mark chief minister Nitish Kumar’s 15 years of governance. Kumar and the JD(U)’s report card for these past years will be presented on all platforms on the occasion.For the past few days, the JD(U) on Twitter has been listing several achievements in the fields of agriculture, road infrastructure and healthcare under the leadership of chief minister Kumar.“Service to people is our religion. We must take care of their happiness and sorrow,” Rajiv Ranjan, the national president of the JD(U) tweeted on Tuesday. Ranjan said there has been transparent leadership and inclusive growth in the last 15 years.In November last year, Nitish Kumar was sworn in as the chief minister of Bihar for the seventh time. The JD(U), which was a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), secured 43 seats in the assembly elections in 2020 while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 74 seats. In total, the NDA won 125 of Bihar assembly's 243 seats.Previously, Nitish Kumar served as the chief minister for a little over a week back in 2000. In 2005, Kumar was again elected for the top post and served a full term.Five years later, in 2010, Kumar was again elected to power and served as the chief minister for four years before resigning; he again took oath as the head of the state in February 2015, when the JD(U) was voted to power in the assembly elections as part of the ‘Mahagathbandhan’.However, when allegations surfaced against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav in 2015, Nitish Kumar resigned as the chief minister. Twelve hours later, he was again sworn in as the CM as the JD(U) partnered with the BJP to form the state government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-to-celebrate-15-years-of-cm-nitish-kumar-s-governance-in-bihar-today-101637712315249.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Sanitation worker held with illegal weapons, drugs||A municipal corporation sanitation worker was arrested with 260g heroin and an illegal 9mm pistol on Tuesday. The accused, Tanu Singh, 19, of Dr Ambedkar Colony, said that he had bought the weapon to threaten his rivals. He said that he had bought two pistols from a person in Batala, one of which he had given to a friend. Anti-narcotic wing in-charge inspector Rajesh Sharma said the accused was arrested at RK Road near Cheema Chowk, following a tip-off. The accused was crossing from the area when the police stopped him for checking.The accused was going to deliver a consignment when he was arrested. He said he had taken up peddling to make some extra money. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the aide of the accused to recover the second pistol.Two cases under the NDPS Act, and Arms Act have been lodged against the accused at police station Moti Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sanitation-worker-held-with-illegal-weapons-drugs-101637702936585.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||4 night shelters to be operationalised for the homeless in Ludhiana||With mercury levels dipping and fog enveloping the city, the municipal corporation has initiated preparations to operationalise four night shelters. The MC will also arrange to bring the people sleeping on footpaths or roadsides to the night shelters and will also feed them. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting with officials of the Zone D office on Tuesday and directed them to open the night shelters for homeless. Directions were also issued to prepare a roster of employees in all the four zones of the MC who will be deputed to transport the homeless to shelters in city buses.With a capacity to shelter over 220 persons, the night shelters are situated at four locations — the Haibowal Dairy Complex, near the Clock Tower, Moti Nagar and in Millerganj near Manju Cinema. Officials said that if required, temporary shelters will also be established at the Jagraon Bridge and few more points where a large number of homeless people are found.MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said that tie-ups were being done with gurdwaras, and NGOs for arranging food for those who come to the night shelter. Interested persons or NGOs can also contact MC officials, in case they want to contribute.“The night shelter near the Clock Tower will be opened on Tuesday night, while the others are expected to open in a day or so. City buses will be deployed and MC employees will locate and transport homeless people to the night shelters,” said Dachalwal.Low footfall at night sheltersIn the past, the shelters have been witnessing low footfall even after transport facility was arranged by the MC. The old mattresses kept in the shelters are also washed once in a while. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said the homeless also avoid visiting the shelters as they receive blankets, and food from philanthropes on the roadsides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-night-shelters-to-be-operationalised-for-the-homeless-in-ludhiana-101637702695837.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana:Deadline to pay water-sewer arrears without penalty to end on November 24||The one-time settlement policy floated by the state government allowing payment of pending water and sewer bills without interest or penalty, and regularisation of connections at nominal rates will expire on Wednesday. As per the notification dated August 25, defaulters were given a three-month period to submit a nominal amount (less than 10% of the normal fee) for getting their connections regularised and pay the pending user charges without penalty and 18% annual interest on delayed payment. Those who fail to avail the one-time settlement policy will have to pay interest on the pending arrears for water-sewer charges. In addition, 100% penalty will be imposed on concessional rates being charged under the policy for regularisation of illegal connections. It also said that no penalty or interest will be charged on principal amount if the payment of pending user charges is made within three months (till November 24) of the notification, while only penalty will be waived off if the amount is paid after three months but within six months (till February 24). After six months, the user will have to pay both penalty and interest on the pending amount and the connection will also be disconnected on non-payment of dues. Around 7,000 illegal connections were detected during the MC’s door-to-door survey to check illegal water-sewer connections. These connections have been regularised under the OTS policy at nominal rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianadeadline-to-pay-water-sewer-arrears-without-penalty-to-end-on-november-24-101637702515663.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||‘Govt yet to sanction plea against clean chits in ex-CS assault case’: Delhi police submission in sessions court||The Delhi Police has told a sessions court that the state government is yet to sanction a challenge to the exoneration of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, and nine Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, in a case filed over the alleged assault on former chief secretary Anshu Prakash during a late-night meeting in 2018.On August 11 this year, a city court exonerated Kejriwal, Sisodia and the nine MLAs in the case, saying there was no “criminal conspiracy” or “unlawful assembly” as alleged by Prakash.The former chief secretary challenged this decision before the sessions court, contending that the magistrate had drawn erroneous inferences and conclusions without having the benefit of examination of the prosecution witnesses.Responding to Prakash’s appeal, police said they firmly believed the order giving a clean chit to the accused was a “fit case for filing a revision” petition. In a reply filed before additional sessions judge Geetanjali Goel, police also said they have taken legal advice from experts, including the additional solicitor general.Police said that, pursuant to such opinions, they wrote two letters on September 17 and October 18 to the Delhi government requesting it to direct the concerned officer/department to file criminal revision before the sessions’ court “…however, the outcome of the same has not been communicated back to us”.Police also said the investigating officer of the case did not get the requisite support of the prosecution, and that additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava was abruptly restrained from appearing in the case by the Delhi home department.The court took the reply on record, and posted the matter for further hearing on December 7.In his police complaint in February 2018, Prakash alleged that AAP MLAs assaulted during the course of a midnight meeting called by the CM’s former adviser VK Jain on February 19, 2018, to discuss the release of the party’s advertisements..On August 11, the city court, while discharging the CM, his deputy and nine AAP MLAs from the case, said that the incident happened suddenly, after some of the MLAs started questioning Prakash over some issues, and in the spur of the moment, two of the MLAs — Amanatullah Khan and Parkash Jarwal — acted without any conspiracy, prior meeting of minds, or pre-meditation.After the August 11 verdict, Sisodia called the case a “conspiracy” by the Bharatiya Janata Party, a claim the party refuted.Prakash, through senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, has contended before the sessions court that the trial court failed to appreciate, among other things, that the meeting was called at midnight, which was very unusual as there was no emergency at the time.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-yet-to-sanction-plea-against-clean-chits-in-ex-cs-assault-case-delhi-police-submission-in-sessions-court-101637701845590.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of tomorrow’s Mumbaiwale||The cotton candy man is wavering like a pink kashti (boat) in this fast-moving grey stream of Sadar Bazar gentry in Gurugram. The wooly plastic-wrapped pink and yellow candies he is holding by a wooden ‘danda’ on his right arm seem unnaturally cheery for the solemn expressions on his face. His eyes are cast downwards even as the busy shoppers are going about him, not noticing his candies.“I’m thinking, I’m in tension,” says Nahar Singh.Moving towards the side, he explains in a murmuring voice that he is planning to leave Gurugram. “I’m planning to go to Bambai,” he says, referring to the city by its former name.In his 20s, Mr Singh has been selling candies in Sadar Bazar for about half a dozen years “but now the business is no longer as it used to be.” He says he manages to earn about “only ₹15,000 every month, which is barely enough to support the family in the village.” Initially, the young man almost decided to go back home for good. His village is close to Tundla, a town near Agra in UP. “But then I thought that might finish my future permanently.”To be sure, Mr Singh was never ambitious. He had arrived in the so-called Millennium City without any pushy determination to transform his life. He had simply followed many of his cousins and acquaintances who too carry on with the same cotton candy business in this city (they in turn had followed the footsteps of their circle’s previous generation). In fact, most of the cotton candy sellers in Sadar Bazar happen to be from Agra and neighbouring districts. Mr Singh lives in a rented room near the bus stand with a group of such hawkers. Every morning each of these men makes his own cotton candies before hitting the streets.Mumbai seems more promising to Mr Singh and “it’s not that I will be taking a big risk (by going into the unknown).” He is familiar with the metropolis. He has some Tundla cousins, too, there selling these same candies. He himself worked there for three months some years ago—and didn’t stay longer “because it was so far from my home town.” Now he feels that “better sense” is prevailing over him as “Gurgawa is not the right place for me.”Absentmindedly ringing the brass bell that many Sadar Bazar hawkers like him carry in their free hand to catch the attention of distracted shoppers, he says, “I might soon leave for Bambai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-tomorrow-s-mumbaiwale-101637701279060.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capping rates at ₹100 unfeasible: Cable service providers||A day after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi fixed the monthly cable TV rate at ₹100, service providers called a statewide emergency meeting and concluded that the price slash was unfeasible. Alleging that the Telecom Regulatory Authority Of India (TRAI) was micromanaging the cable networks, Fastway Media Cable Network CEO Peeush Mahajan said, “ The regulatory authority has fixed the base price at ₹130, with an additional 18% GST, which roughly comes to ₹154 per connection for 200 channels. Of the ₹130, ₹91 goes to the cable operator, ₹10 to taxes, and the remainder goes to the service provider. Thus, ₹91 goes to cable operators, who have to pay employees salaries, and maintenance costs.” “Not just us, even DTH providers charge between ₹300 to ₹900 per package. Nearly 20,000 people from across the state are associated with the cable business and if corrective steps are not taken, it will be really difficult to run the business,” said Mahajan, adding that operators will urge the CM to reconsider his decision. ‘Selective price slashing’ Another cable operator said there should not be selective price slashing. “If cable TV prices have been capped, then the government should cap the prices of DTH providers as well. Why this selective penalising? Our business is already suffering as people are increasingly shifting to high-speed internet-based platforms,” said the cable operator, requesting anonymity.The CM had said the prices were being capped to end the “cable mafia.” He had also said that transport and cable in the state were owned and controlled by the Badals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capping-rates-at-100-unfeasible-cable-service-providers-101637701316180.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Minor apprehended for raping, killing woman, burning body||The city police on Tuesday said that they apprehended a 17-year-old boy for allegedly raping and killing a 32-year-old woman in Dwarka and dumping her body in a drain over a week ago.The woman’s body, with burn marks on her forehead and private parts, was found in a drain in southwest Delhi’s Dabri in Dwarka on November 15. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said police had apprehended the teenager on November 18 on the basis of CCTV footage and manual surveillance.An investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said the woman was seen near the teenager’s house, following which he was questioned.“During questioning, he confessed he had murdered the woman. He also said that he burnt her private parts and forehead using kerosene to remove evidence of sexual assault,” said the officer.According to police, on November 15, a passerby had spotted the woman’s body in the drain near the CNG fuel pump of Dabri sector 2.A police official aware of the case, on the condition of anonymity, had said, “The woman’s body was covered with a cloth, which seemed like a green bedsheet usually used in government hospitals. There were burn marks on her forehead and private parts. Prima facie, it looked like she was assaulted and beaten to death. It looks like she was murdered elsewhere after which her body was dumped here.”Police said they had initially circulated the victim’s photos on different WhatsApp groups and was identified by her family.Investigators said they questioned around 2,700 people and checked CCTV cameras for leads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-apprehended-for-raping-killing-woman-burning-body-101637701013588.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||SC rejects plea, clears way for new VP house||The central government can now start building a new residence for the Vice President on a public park and bus depot after the Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging the change in land use.“It is not the case of the petitioner that the authorities have no power to introduce such a change. Only argument is that in the past, the area was shown as recreational ground and commensurate area has not been provided,” a three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said. “This cannot be the scope of judicial review. It is the prerogative of the authorities concerned and change effected in a government plan, in one sense, is a matter of policy.”The issue related to plot 1 of the Central Vista area of the national capital, which is now a six-acre public park and a nine-acre bus depot.Lawyer Rajeev Suri had, in a petition, objected to the conversion of the open space available for public recreation with no alternate site allotted to compensate the loss. Advocate Shikhil Suri, who argued the petition, said that if the government wished to take over the green space, it must provide an alternative within the Vista.The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said: “It is not some private property being created there. It is for the construction of Vice President’s bungalow…will public view have to be taken on where the VP residence should be?”It was the only challenge against the Central Vista redevelopment plan pending in the top court.On January 5, the court gave the nod for the entire project by dismissing a clutch of petitions filed by environmentalists, architects, social activists and lawyers challenging the project on multiple grounds, including harm to environment, heritage and in violation of the development rules prevailing in Delhi.“There should be an end to everything,” said Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre.The judges relied on an affidavit filed by government explaining the reasons for changing the land use of Plot 1, which housed temporary barracks and stables during the World War 2.The reason for shifting the residence to the proposed site, according to the affidavit, was to help ease the traffic situation in the Central Vista as the movement of the Vice President was mainly to Parliament.“This will be well facilitated by the proposed Vice President residence being in close proximity to Parliament,” said the affidavit filed by the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) executive engineer Ashwani Mittal. On October 28, 2020, this plot was notified as residential.“It is not the case of the petitioner that the change in land use has been effected due to any malafide. Since sufficient reasons have been given for change in land use of Plot 1, we find no reason to examine the matter further. We therefore, put a quietus to the matter by dismissing the matter summarily,” the bench said.The revamp project envisages a new Parliament with a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 51 ministries in 10 buildings.The CPWD affidavit further disclosed that “considering the overall public purpose of the central vista” the Centre has not only compensated for the loss of public recreational space, but has on its own added numerous facilities in the master plan of the central vista project for the larger benefit of the public.The government had told the Supreme Court that the petition by Suri should be dismissed as the question of change in character of master plan was covered in the judgment of January 5 giving the go-ahead to the central vista project.“Taking a holistic view and complying with Master Plan Delhi (MPD)-2021 provisions, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has approved the change of land use without compromising with green area, built heritage, transport infrastructure, better utilization of the spaces and fully complying with the provisions of the Delhi Development Authority Act, 1957 and the MPD-2021,” the Centre had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/screjects-plea-clears-way-for-new-vp-house-101637700697982.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Behind differing farm fire counts: Satellite resolution, methodology||The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa)’s VIIRS-SNPP satellite showed 74,015 farm fires in Punjab between October 1 and November 16 .But data collated by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, using a combination of both VIIRS-SNPP and the MODIS satellite and sensor systems, which is used by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region, and the Central Pollution Control Board, showed cumulative fire counts in Punjab only touched 68,922 till November 16.Then there is data from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), part of the Union ministry of earth sciences, whose data doesn’t match that of Nasa or IARI. For instance, the number of fires, according to Safar, peaked on November 7 (4,189), but this doesn’t tally with the fire counts being released by IARI or Nasa.CAQM has now asked states to only rely on data being collated by IARI.Experts say a difference in methodology, satellite resolution, and the area being scanned can explain the differing farm fire figures, with Safar’s daily count not only comprising the fires recorded in Punjab and Haryana, but also Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. It also excludes some fires.“Ours is a difference in methodology, as we combine data from two Nasa satellites and two Isro satellites, using a combination of the VIIRS, MODIS and INSAT-3D/3DR (Indian National Satellite System) to generate a fire count. This count only includes those that can influence Delhi’s air, so some fires are omitted,” explains Gufran Beig, founder and project director at Safar.Beig says while the resolution of NASA’s SNPP satellite can go down to 300 x 300 metres, thereby being able to capture even smaller fire counts close to the surface, Indian satellites have a resolution of 3x3 kilometres, 10 times lower, which can lead to a lower fire count. It’s also important to see how often the images are captured, he adds.CAQM, when contacted, clarified that all states had been asked to adhere to a framework laid down by Isro before August 30 which will ensure a uniform process is followed in detecting farm fires. “A combination of SNPP-VIIRS and MODIS (Terra and aqua) satellites and sensors is in place, which is being shared by IARI. Overall numbers so far show a reduced count this year as compared to last year.”According to a research paper, “Objective evaluation of stubble emission of North India and quantifying its impact on air quality of Delhi” which was published in the Science of the Total Environment journal last year, Indian satellites have an advantage in terms of a geostationary orbit and capturing data every 15 to 30 minutes, but have a disadvantage because of coarser resolution.“MODIS and VIIRS can detect a larger number of fires, and INSAT-3D due to its better temporal resolution could detect even those fire events which MODIS missed. There are number of instances where anomalies were found on day-to-day basis and rectified carefully. VIIRS was often found to detect additional counts which were never confirmed by ground surveys that might have occurred due to festival related firecrackers or sources other than stubble burning,” the paper states.Dr Mahesh Narang, principal extension scientist at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in Ludhiana says IARI uses satellite data that captures fire counts multiple times a day, but adds that there is need for a common methodology across all states to ensure numbers can be correctly calculated.“There is no right or wrong system, but if we are comparing satellite data or remote sensing data, we need to analyse it with the same satellite data from last year, to get accurate numbers. Data for Punjab this year shows a 13.2% reduction and if the same satellite is analysed next year, you can get accurate figures to compare,” Narang says.The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), which analysed Nasa’s VIIRS satellite data between September 15 and November 21 showed Punjab recording 76,320 fires with Haryana recording 9,409 fires during the same period. The figures for the corresponding period under the Isro protocol shows 71,024 fires in Punjab and 6,642 fires for Haryana.If November is analysed, Safar’s monthly fire count recorded 64,051 fires, however, this figure includes fires from UP and Jharkhand as well, while omitting certain fires with ‘low’ intensity. The Isro fire count showed 61,272 fires in Punjab and Haryana, a difference of around 6,000 fires from Nasa’s VIIRS, which recorded 67,754 fires.S Narayanan, Member Secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said the state was acting as per the CAQM’s guidelines and using the ISRO satellite numbers, being collated by IARI. “Last year, we were using data from Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in Hisar and the numbers were not as accurate. This year, the Commission has taken this decision to have a uniform system across all states. The figures being compared for this year are being done with the same satellite data for last year now,” says Narayanan.According to LS Kurinji, programme associate at CEEW, Sangrur in Punjab is leading the fire count so far this year with 8,872 logged between September 1 and November 22, followed by Bathinda, Moga and Ferozepur districts.“Ludhiana also reported a marked rise in farm fires this year, reaching 5,395 compared to the last year’s figure of 3,885. In Haryana, Fatehabad reported a maximum of 1,968 fires, followed by Kaithal, Jind and Karnal districts,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/behind-differing-farm-fire-counts-satellite-resolution-methodology-101637699867708.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai for ‘derogatory’ remarks against Sikhs||Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut here for allegedly using derogatory language against the Sikh community in a social media post, an official said.The FIR was lodged at the suburban Khar police station a day after the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) submitted a complaint against the actor.Ranaut (34) was booked under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and further investigation was underway, the official said.According to the official, the complainant in the case is Amarjeet Singh Sandhu, a Mumbai-based businessman who was part of a DSGMC delegation that submitted the complaint on Monday.In a statement, Sandhu accused the actor of making derogatory remarks against his community in a post on Instagram.After submitting the complaint, the DSGMC delegation, led by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader who is also president of the organisation, had met Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil and top officials of the Mumbai police, and demanded action against Ranaut.In the complaint, the DSGMC mentioned that Ranaut had intentionally and deliberately portrayed the farmers’ protest (Kisan Morcha) as a “Khalistani” movement and also dubbed the Sikh community as “Khalistani terrorists”.She also made references to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, it said.In the post, the actor has used very derogatory and insulting language against the Sikh community, according to the complaint.“This act on her part is most degrading, disrespectful and contemptuous, which has hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community settled all over the world,” it added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-kangana-ranaut-in-mumbai-for-derogatory-remarks-against-sikhs-101637700055563.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||‘Planning concessions for scrapping vehicles’: Nitin Gadkari||People scrapping their old cars while buying new ones might get tax breaks if the finance ministry agrees to a proposal mooted by the transport ministry, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday.“The GST (goods and services tax) revenue of both the Centre and the states will rise due to the scrappage policy,” Gadkari said. “I will discuss with the finance ministry on how to provide more (tax-related) concessions under the new vehicle scrappage policy.”The minister was speaking at the inauguration of Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu India’s first government-approved scrapping and recycling facility for end-of-life vehicles in Noida.States and Union territories are supposed to provide up to 25% tax rebate on road tax for vehicles bought after scrapping old ones. At the same time, renewing registration certificates of vehicles that are older than 15 years will cost up to eight times more from April 2022.Scrapping old vehicles is important because a vehicle that is 15 years old releases emissions equivalent to 15 new vehicles, Gadkari said. “The scrapping policy is going to boost automobile sales in India. We are expecting that there will be 10-12% more sales once the policy picks up. It will create at least 200,000 jobs directly or indirectly. Also, availability of low-cost raw materials such as aluminium, rubber, steel, copper and plastic will increase, resulting in reduction in the production cost due to lower imports. This has a potential to reduce the raw material cost by 33%,” he said.The existing vehicle-scrapping cycle has a low recovery percentage, and several materials are wasted or not properly recycled. The recovery percentage in India is about 70-75%, according to official estimates, while global benchmarks for recovery from scrapped vehicles are in the range of 85-95%.The scrapping facility in Noida is the second in India, which aims to build 3-4 such facilities in every district of the country, the minister said. Busy districts should have four facilities, while economically backward districts should have at least two centres, he added.“The turnover of our automobile industry is ₹7.5 lakh crore, of which ₹3 lakh crore is from exports. My target as India’s transport minister is to increase the industry’s turnover to the volume of ₹15 lakh crore within five years, and for that we are encouraging ethanol, flex engine, CNG, LNG, green hydrogen and electric vehicles,” Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/planning-concessions-for-scrapping-vehicles-nitin-gadkari-101637699497704.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Motor Accident Claims Tribunal awards ₹14 lakh relief to Panchkula road mishap victim’s family||Parents of an 18-year-old youth from Batour village got ₹14 lakh compensation from the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) as they lost their son in a road accident in November 2018.Anil Kumar and Rani Devi from Batour village in Panchkula filed a petition in the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) praying for a grant of ₹50 lakh compensation. They lost their son Happy Kumar in an accident that took place on November 19, 2018.The petition was filed against Sanjay Kumar and Vikram Kumar as they were the driver and owner of the tractor that met with an accident. The third party was vehicle’s insurer Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd, Ambala,Happy was 18 years old and was working as a motor mechanic with Sanjay Kumar. As per his parents in November 2018, Happy was with Sanjay Kumar, who took him on his tractor trolley for buying goods for the electric motor. He was driving the tractor trolley in a rash and negligent manner and as he turned the vehicle at a high speed, the tractor’s iron rod struck Happy, due to which he suffered a head injury.A few days later, he succumbed to his injuries in the PGIMER, Chandigarh.In the tribunal, Sanjay and Vikram pleaded that Happy was not working as a motor mechanic/helper with them; they stated that a false and frivolous FIR has been lodged against them in collusion with local police to get compensation.Whereas the insurance company stated that the alleged tractor trolley was not insured on the date of the alleged accident.After hearing both sides, the tribunal awarded compensation of ₹14, 95,200 to the parents.“Respondents shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the same. The interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum would also be payable on the awarded amount from the date of filing of the petition till its realisation. The insurance company is required to make the payment as the vehicle in question was insured one,” the tribunal observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/motor-accident-claims-tribunal-awards-14-lakh-relief-to-panchkula-road-mishap-victim-s-family-101637699575524.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab agri minister Nabha seeks 5 lakh MT urea from Centre||Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha on Tuesday sought 5 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of urea from the Centre before December 15 to meet the demand for fertilizer in the state. The minister raised the demand during a virtual meeting with Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, stating that the state needed adequate quantity of urea during the first 25 days of sowing of wheat. “The Centre has allocated 14.5 LMT of urea for rabi 2021-22 for the state, which has received only 2.53 LMT against an allocation of 2.76 LMT during October 2021,” he said. Nabha further said the state had got only 2.26 LMT up to November 22 against an allocation of 3.33 LMT. Against an allocation of 2.56 LMT of DAP, 1.49 LMT was received. Wheat is sown on 35 lakh hectare area and sowing of the same has been almost completed in the state. Reviewing the stock of urea and DAP, the agriculture minister said there was no shortage of urea in the state but adequate and uninterrupted supply was needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-agri-minister-nabha-seeks-5-lakh-mt-urea-from-centre-101637699095619.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP plans to contest all 117 seats in Punjab||Hoping to gain ground in Punjab after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal three farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has asked its state and the district units to identify probable candidates for all 117 assembly segments of the state.The BJP has been at the receiving end of the farmer unions’ ire in Punjab that is the hotbed of the agitation. Their leaders have been repeatedly targeted by protesters, who halted their movement, disrupted meetings and even laid siege to houses of some of them, in the past one year. According to the strategy chalked out by the BJP after several rounds of meetings that were chaired by party’s election in-charge and Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, it has decided to take feedback from constituency in-charges and block committees which will send names of all probable candidates to district units. “The entire process will be completed by December 10. The party has decided to go full steam to contest elections on all the seats,” said a party general secretary. No discussion yet on pact with Capt’s party According to a core group member of the party, no discussion was held on the possibilities of an alliance with Amarinder’s new party. “We have been asked to increase political activities in all segments across the state. There is plan to start the mega outreach drive in which central leaders are expected to reach out to be people of Punjab, but that will finalised once the three controversial farm laws are repealed in Parliament,” said the party’s core group member from Doaba. As the party will contest more seats as compare to 23 it used to fight in Punjab, there is plan to increase organisational strength at the booth-level, Shekhawat was quoted by a news channel. “The BJP-led central government has fulfilled two major demands of Punjabis, including opening up of Kartarpur Corridor and the repeal of farm laws,” he said. Sekhawat said the party was ready to contest all 117 seats in Punjab, according to a party release. The election in-charge, it is learnt, has taken feedback from the state unit leaders about chances of the BJP in the state following PM’s announcement of repealing farm laws. Union external affairs minister Meenakshi Lekhi, who is co-incharge of the party for assembly polls in Punjab, also attended the meeting. Party thanks Takht jatehdar The party has thanked Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh for his statement after Modi’s announcement of repealing the farm laws in which he termed the announcement as important for the communal harmony of Punjab. “We thank Jathedar saab for his stand. He has acknowledged the decision of the Prime Minister,” said state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. Akali Dal can join hands as younger brother: BJPPunjab BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), if willing, can rejoin hands with the BJP but only as a younger brother.“Earlier, the BJP was younger brother in Punjab. But now, if Akali Dal thinks it is interested in a coalition with us, the party will consider it only in role of a younger brother,” said Gautam, adding that the BJP is prepared to contest on all seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-plans-to-contest-all-117-seats-in-punjab-101637698915790.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to ED on Khaira’s plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the plea of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who had challenged his arrest in a money laundering case.The high court has issued a notice for November 29.The plea was filed in an earlier proceeding in which he had challenged the ED raids at his properties on March 9, 2021, in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. Following raids, the ED had claimed that in 12-odd years ₹4.86 crore were deposited in Khaira’s bank accounts but he declared only ₹99 lakh income to the income tax department. Khaira, who is in judicial custody now, was arrested by the central agency on November 11. According to Khaira’s lawyer senior advocate Vikram Chaudhari, ED’s action was a case of “witch-hunt” as he has been vocal against the three farm laws enacted by Centre last year. The ED initiated proceedings under the PMLA even as there was a stay from Supreme Court in the 2015 matter. The ED initiated these proceedings in January when Khaira was vociferous on the issue of farm laws. Raids were conducted in March and even as matter was pending before the high court, Khaira was arrested though he was summoned 11 times since raids, said his lawyer, adding that till now, even grounds of arrests have not been shared by the ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notice-to-ed-on-khaira-s-plea-101637698795511.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba barred from meeting kin of civilians killed in Hyderpora||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti wasn’t allowed to meet the family members of two civilians who were killed during Hyderpora encounter.The PDP said that Mehbooba was scheduled to visit the families of Mudasir Gul and Altaf Ahmad Bhat in Srinagar. The former chief minister had also informed the police about her visit. However in the morning, PDP leaders said she wasn’t allowed to leave her house.“Mehbooba was supposed to meet the families but wasn’t allowed,” PDP spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said in a tweet. He also denied any plans to organise protest towards the houses of civilians.On Sunday, Mehbooba had held a protest outside Raj Bhawan, demanding a judicial probe into Hyderpora killings, return of the body of Jammu resident Amir Magray and an apology from Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to the families of slain civilians.Amnesty International condemns arrest of human rights activistAmnesty International on Tuesday condemned the arrest of human rights activist Khurram Parvez by NIA and said that anti-terror laws were being “misused to criminalise human rights work”.“The arrest of Kashmiri activist Khurram Parvez is yet another example of how anti-terror laws are being misused to criminalise human rights work & stifle dissent in India. Instead of targeting HRDs, authorities should focus on bringing accountability for human rights violations,” tweeted Amnesty International from its official handle.Parvez’s arrest disturbing: UNMary Lawlor, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders, called Parvez’s arrest “disturbing”.“He’s not a terrorist, he’s a human rights defender,” she said in a tweet.Parvez, one of Kashmir’s best known activists, is head of Jammu Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society, a group of rights organisations working in the region.He is being held under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, that allows for detention of up to six months without trial.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-barred-from-meeting-kin-of-civilians-killed-in-hyderpora-101637698677445.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Attari ICP readies to send 50,000 MT of wheat to Afghanistan||The Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari is ready to facilitate the export of 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat as a humanitarian gesture to the crisis-hit Afghanistan through Pakistan’s territory.Officials posted at the ICP, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and movement of passengers from Pakistan to India and vice-versa, said this would be the first time since August 2019 when any truck carrying Indian goods will cross over to Pakistan through the land border.The government of Pakistan had severed all trade ties with India, besides closing the Attari-Wagah transit route for export to Afghanistan after New Delhi abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and converted the erstwhile state into two union territories — Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh—on August 5, 2019. Only import from Afghanistan was allowed by the neighbouring country.On Monday, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan announced that his government would allow India to send foodgrain to Afghanistan. Last month, India announced 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat for Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance and requested Pakistan to allow its transportation via the Wagah border.“Though we are yet to receive a particular date from the government regarding the export of wheat, our teams are prepared. We have adequate staff. The shipment would be transported in around 5,000 trucks and we can send around 200 trucks every day. Every truck has to pass through a proper security check, including the risk management system of the Customs, and the entire process of the shipment would take around 25 to 30 days,” said a senior officer of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI), which manages the affairs of the ICP.He said: “Before allowing a truck to cross the zero line, our teams issue special permits to the drivers. The trucks exporting goods are unloaded at the ICP situated on the other side of the border and the shipments are further transported to Afghanistan in Pakistani trucks.”Presently, Afghanistan is exporting goods, including dry fruits, onion and fresh fruits, via the ICP. Around 50 to 100 trucks have been crossing over to India via the land border from Afghanistan on a daily basis.Meanwhile, Indian traders have expressed hope of re-opening of trade between India and Pakistan via the transit route. “We welcome the decision of both the governments to re-open the Kartarpur Corridor for pilgrims. The Pakistan government should also re-open trade with India,” said Anil Mehra, president, Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association.He said: “The traders of both the nations have been suffering since Imran Khan had decided to stop trade with India. The Government of India never stopped the trade, but imposed heavy duty on the goods exported by Pakistan to India.”The Indian government had imposed a 200% duty on all items being imported from Pakistan after the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attari-icp-readies-to-send-50-000-mt-of-wheat-to-afghanistan-101637698615451.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Protesting teachers block entry, exit gates of PSEB||The temporary teachers, who are protesting for the past 161 days outside the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) in Phase-8, Mohali, on Tuesday did not allow the employees of the education department, Punjab complex in Phase 8, by blocking the entry and exit gates. On Monday also, the employees of PSEB were not allowed. The protesting teachers also raised slogans against the state government. On Tuesday, AAP leader Anmol Gagan Mann met the protesters. Addressing the protesting teachers, Mann alleged that the Punjab government was doing injustice to the teachers. She also informed about the announcements made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for the teachers. As many as 13,000 teachers have been protesting for the past 161 days demanding permanent jobs in Punjab. Meanwhile, the PSEB employees had to use the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) route to get inside the education department. Last month itself, more than 8,800 teachers were assured to be confirmed by the government. The teachers’ paper was to be held on November 21, but the same was postponed to November 28 causing resentment among the teachers. Teacher leader Davinder Singh Sandhu said that Congress would have to face the consequences in the forthcoming assembly elections. He said after 84 days of protest, they were assured that they would be provided permanent jobs, but nothing has been done so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-protesting-teachers-block-entry-exit-gates-of-pseb-101637698497033.html
24-11-2021||Other||50 bird flu deaths reported from Sambhar lake after Jodhpur and Pali||Jaipur: Over 50 birds, mostly crows, have died due to bird flu in India’s biggest inland salt lake in Sambhar lake in Rajasthan’s Jaipur district in the past five days, forest department officials said on Monday, adding that it was third place in the state to report bird flu deaths since November 1.Before Sambhar lake, deathsof 300 demoiselle cranes were reported from Kaparda area in Jodhpur and Sardarsmand lake area in Pali district of the state. No presence of bird flu in poultry has been reported by the state, officials said.Bird flu, or avian flu, is an infectious type of influenza that spreads among birds. Scientists have confirmed the infection is transmissible from birds to humans, although such a risk is currently low.According to forest department officials, an alert has been issued across wetlands in the state to scan for sudden deaths of birds because of the flu, which, officials believe, have been brought by migratory birds from Central Asia.Between December 2019 and January 2020, close to 24,500 birds died in at least five states because of bird flu brought by birds travelling through the Central Asia bird migratory route.Bhopal-based National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), the lab accredited to confirm bird flu, has detected two strains of influenza viruses in the dead birds. H5N8, a sub-type of avian influenza found in poultry and wild animals, was found in crows in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh while H5N1 was found in ducks in Kerala and migratory birds in Himachal Pradesh.Rajasthan animal husbandry secretary Dr Arushi Malik said the Bhopal-based institute has confirmed the presence of H5N1 avian influenza virus, which in 2019-20 was found in ducks in Kerala. Officials said the strain is commonly found in migratory birds and the infection may have been transmitted from them to the crows.“All bird deaths were due to avian influenza,” she said.“Fogging has been done in the surrounding areas and the nearest departmental institutions have been alerted,” he added. Malik said 7 birds including 5 crows and a Myna and Rufus trippy were found dead in the Sambhar area in Jaipur district yesterday. Four samples of crows found dead were sent to the Bhopal lab, which confirmed the presence of H5N1 avian influenza virus. According to officials, the first deaths among birds were reported on November 5 when close to 300 demoiselle cranes were found dead in Kaparda area in Jodhpur. A week later, more crane deaths were reported from Sardarsmand lake area in Pali district, 30 km from Kaparda, which gets demoiselle cranes from Central Asia. “In both places, the cause of death was bird flu,” Dr Malik said. The animal husbandry department has set up control rooms at the state level and formed Rapid Response Teams in all the districts to control bird flu. Dr Malik said bird flu disease has not been seen in the poultry business so far. “We have appealed to poultry farmers to keep the bird enclosures clean and inform the department immediately if dead birds are seen on the roofs or around their houses,” she said. On Monday, additional director of the department of animal husbandry, Anand Sejara said only two bird deaths were reported from Sambhar Lake, where close to 18,000 birds died due to avian botulism in November 2019. Avian botulism is a neuromuscular illness of birds.Experts said the presence of H5N1 influenza doesn’t necessarily mean that cause of death is bird flu.“The lab report should be correlated with clinical science and post mortem lesion,” microbiologist Dr AK Kataria said.He said bird flu affects the respiratory system, high temperature and also paralysis are the symptoms. Kataria said the death of crows was an annual feature and could also be linked to a sudden drop in temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-bird-flu-deaths-reported-from-sambhar-lake-after-jodhpur-and-pali-101637698495896.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Jewellery, ₹13-lakh cash stolen from Dera Bassi house||Thieves struck at a house on Gulabgarh road in Dera Bassi in the daytime on Tuesday and decamped with ₹13 lakh in cash and jewellery worth ₹4 lakh. A case has been registered on the complaint of house owner Jasvir Singh a cloth trader and police were scanning the footage of a CCTV camera installed at a neighbour’s house. Four accused can be seen in the footage, police said. Jasvir, who runs a cloth shop in Ramlila Ground, said he left for his shop at 8.30am, while his wife and son went to Mubarakpur for some work around 9:45am. “When my wife and son reached home at 11:30 am, they found the house burgled,” he said. Station in-charge Harjinder Singh CCTV camera footage is being scanned to identify the accused..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-jewellery-13-lakh-cash-stolen-from-dera-bassi-house-101637698443458.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No consensus, meeting on further reopening of PU remains inconclusive||In a setback to the campus reopening process of Panjab University (PU), the meeting of a university panel remained inconclusive after the panel did not reach any consensus for the further reopening of the campus for students on Tuesday. According to sources, there was a difference of opinions among some members of the committee regarding the further reopening of the campus. The meeting was chaired by dean university instruction (DUI) VR Sinha and was attended by dean research SK Tomar, who is also the dean students welfare (DSW) and other university officials as well. The reopening of the campus is already delayed at the university despite PU planning to conduct upcoming exams in offline mode.This comes two days after former senator of PU Subhash Sharma wrote to the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also PU chancellor, seeking his intervention for the reopening of campus for all students. In his letter to Naidu, he said when the entire country is in “unlock mode”, the reopening of the campus is being delayed.However, a member of the panel, who attended the meeting, said there were chances that all postgraduate students and undergraduate final year students would be allowed to return to campus in the next phase.During the meeting, it was discussed that providing hostel accommodation to a large number of students would not be possible given the Covid-19 guidelines. The university had continuously announced the limited hostel accommodation for the PG final year students who have been allowed to return to campus.Both VR Sinha and SK Tomar could not be reached for their comments.Meanwhile, the university is yet to finalise the mode of the upcoming semester examination, which is scheduled to start in December.Student Centre gears up for reopeningThe shops at the iconic Student Centre of Panjab University (PU) are set to reopen from December 1. The formal announcement of the reopening of the shops at the Student Centre was also issued on Tuesday. The canteens in the teaching departments (both in Sectors 14 and 25) have also been allowed to reopen. However, they have been asked to follow all the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-no-consensus-meeting-on-further-reopening-of-pu-remains-inconclusive-101637698442455.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Open Ladies Championship: Shalini Sheoran, Diya Brar tied in lead||Shalini Sheoran and Diya Brar are tied for the gross score of 79 followed by Sakshi Mehta and Mehar Nigger tied at 81 in the gold division on Day one of the three-day 27th Punjab Open Ladies Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Tuesday.In the silver division, Tripti Kaur grabbed the lead with a gross score of 92 followed by Shubra Mishra with a score of 81. In the bronze division, Navina Kahai took lead with a gross score of 105 followed by Nirmaljit Dhillon with a score of 109.Earlier, Arvind Bajaj, captain, Chandigarh Golf Club, did the ceremonial tee-off. Former India number one, Shiraz Singh, was the first one to tee-off. There were 86 players, 31 in gold division (1-18 handicap), 45 in silver division (19-24 handicap) and 10 in bronze division (26-30 handicap). Eight-year-old Ojaswini Saraswat and the senior-most Gurbrinder Johl, 84, were also seen in action on Day One. Over 100 golfers are taking part in the championship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-open-ladies-championship-shalini-sheoran-diya-brar-tied-in-lead-101637698439067.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three persons with LeT links arrested for killing salesman in Srinagar||Three persons having alleged links with Lashkar-e-Taiba have been arrested for killing the salesman of a Kashmir Pandit businessman in the Old City area on November 8, Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Tuesday.Officials said they have solved the murder case of Mohammad Ibrahim Khan and also recovered the weapon used in the crime. “The police have solved the Bohri Kadal terror case (murder of the salesman of Mawa Shop) by arresting three persons involved in the commission of said terror crime,” said a police spokesperson in a statement. Khan was shot dead on the evening of November 8 at Bohri Kadal, where he worked as a salesman with Sandeep Mawa and his father Roshan Lal Mawa. Sandeep was believed to be the actual target of the attack.“During the course of investigation, the SIT formed to probe the case learnt about the involvement of Aejaz Ahmad Lone, Naseer Ahmad Shah and Showkat Ahmad Dar, all residents of Pulwama, in the said terror crime,” the statement said. The trio have confessed to their involvement in the killing, the police said.“Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF) executed the said terror attack on the directions of a handler from across the border,” the spokesperson said.“On their disclosure, a pistol, seven rounds and other incriminating materials, including a grenade, have been recovered. Besides, the Maruti Alto car which was used during the commission of crime has also been seized,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-persons-with-let-links-arrested-for-killing-salesman-in-srinagar-101637698437785.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s Dr Jagat Ram to continue his services in Chandigarh||Professor Jagat Ram, former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), and Padma Shri ophthalmologist, will continue his services at the Grewal Eye Institute, Sector 9, Chandigarh. Dr Jagat Ram, who has performed more than one lakh eye operations in his career of about 42 years, had superannuated from the PGIMER on November 1. He has served as the PGIMER director for four years and seven months and worked in various other capacities at the institute for 38 years.Other short storiesPU Professor honoured for contribution in neurosciences
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Public toilets raise a stink in Ward 16 of Chandigarh||Clean toilets and a tap for clean drinking water is what the residents of Bhaskar Colony Sector 25, want. Carrying a mug of water, residents of this colony have to walk a few kilometres to relieve themselves and at times there is a long waiting line, hence they rush to the nearby jungle.Ward number 16 is reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Cast and it covers Bhaskar Colony Sector 25, Sector 25 (west), and the Chandigarh Armed Police Complex, Dhanas.Meenu, who works in a university, said: “Toilets are not clean here, doors are broken and we have to take water from outside. It gets scary to go to the toilets at night as there are no lights and many drug addicts are there in the area.” She lives in one of the 4,000 jhuggis in this ward.Subash, who drives an auto-rickshaw for livelihood, said: “There are around 20 to 30 toilets for nearly 8,000 people living in the colony. So, people start making queues early in the morning.”Talking about the condition, he said: “The doors are broken and there is no water, so we carry our own water. There is no cleanliness. You will find all sorts of filth in these toilets. Even syringes used by drug addicts are found lying there.” Often women have to walk half a kilometre to the nearby jungle. Anil Kumar, who twice remained the president of the area, said: “Lots of work is pending here, but the main issue is the green belt and parks occupied by people living in slums. We want they should be relocated to pucca houses so that they get a roof over their heads and our children get a park to play.”Kumar said naked, hanging wires pose threat to people, especially children.Sandeep Kumar, a resident, said: “The sector doesn’t have proper roads. Without the motor, we don’t get water in our houses, streetlights are broken and there are no CCTV cameras here.”The common complaint of most of the residents is filthy water. “The sewer lines are corroded because of which it contaminates drinking water. Every day, one or the other area reports water woes. At times we walk a few kilometres to get drinking water from other places.”He said there was no community centre in this ward and poor sanitation was a big issue.Councillor Sheela Devi said people living in slums were allotted flats, but they had sold those flats and have started living in slums. Now, those living in flats have been requesting me to remove these toilets as it stinks. She claimed that there were drinking water taps and enough toilets in the colony.“During my term, roads were constructed, parks were built and other development works were done,” she said, adding that for the problem of filthy drinking water, she had approached the MC several times.Know your ward:Voters: Around 12,000 votesKey issues• Broken toilets that are without the door and water and lack hygiene• Filthy water supply• Broken roads and streetlightsLocal voicesWater is a major issue here. We don’t have a single tap in the colony, so we have to fill water from the adjoining areas. It gets really difficult for us. -- Manori, domestic help, a resident of Sector 25 ColonyThere are no lights in the area where there are toilets. We feel unsafe, hence avoid going to the washroom at night. Also, doors are broken, which causes a lot of inconvenience. -- Silva Rani, domestic help, a resident of Sector 25 ColonyWater and sanitation are two major problems in this area. We have made several requests, but to no avail. -- Ombir, ragpicker, a resident of Sector 25 ColonyWe face a lot of inconvenience due to defunct streetlights in the area. Without streetlights, it is scary and dangerous to walk at night. -- Sangeeta, homemaker, a resident of Sector 25 Colony||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/public-toilets-raise-a-stink-in-ward-16-of-chandigarh-101637698376809.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||No headway in Pathankot grenade blast case||AMRITSARThe police have failed to make any breakthrough in grenade blast that occurred outside the gate of an army camp in Pathankot on Monday morning following which an alert was sounded in the border district.Some unidentified persons on a motorcycle hurled the grenade in front of the Triveni Dwar of the military camp at Dheerapaul here, police said. The blast took place two weeks after a grenade was hurled at the SBS Nagar office of the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) wing of police. The low-intensity explosion, however, had not resulted in any damage.“The CCTV footage obtained from the scene and the roads leading to the spot is being analysed to trace the accused,” Pathankot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Lamba had said. Some parts of the hand grenade have been recovered from the site and a forensic team has collected samples, the SSP added. The explosion was of medium intensity. The armymen on duty, however, had a narrow escape, he had said. When quizzed, the SSP said: “We are yet to get leads in the case.” Despite examining the CCTV footage of the area, the police are yet to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-headway-in-pathankot-grenade-blast-case-101637698375447.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Abrogation of Article 370 brought transparent, democratic govt: Nirmala||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said that abrogation of Article 370 brought a transparent and democratic government in J&K. She also said that money from each loan defaulter, irrespective of how powerful they were, will be recovered and restored to the respective banks. Addressing mediapersons here, the finance minister dwelt at length about the fiscal health of J&K post-abrogation of Article 370. “In the last two years, the work that has happened here is absolutely stunning,” she said. “We are accountable for every rupee, which is deployed on the ground. This kind of approach to governance is absolutely unheard of in J&K and for that I would honestly thank abrogation of Article 370,” she said, adding, “It cannot be a few families’ oligopoly. Money of the people should go to the people and it should be a transparent process and that’s what has been achieved in J&K.” She denied any adverse impact on the economy of the region after abrogation of Article 370. “On the contrary, there is a fervour to complete all pending projects,” she said while citing PM’s development package. It may be stated here that the UT has been eyeing ₹35,000 crore investment by the end of this year out of which ₹14,000 crore has already been invested. Responding to another query on loan defaulters, she said all such cases were being pursued in right earnest to get the banks their money back. “We will not let go any defaulter, particularly those who have fled the country, and we will get their assets back through courts to give them to the banks,” she said. When asked what the government was doing to tide over spiraling unemployment rate which has gone over 22% in J&K, she referred to PM’s development package. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and said, “We are trying to ascertain the reasons, but in recent times, 8,000 to 9,000 recruitments were made and total 20,000 people will be recruited.” “There are self-employment schemes like Mission Youth and many others where the youth are being trained, mentored and financed. I am not contradicting the CMIE figures, but I think that there might have been some flaw in sharing data with them. Things will improve in the next one to two months. We are working on many schemes,” he added. New schemes for women entrepreneurs, tourism industry Sitharaman also handed over sanction letters for ₹306 crore to 145 beneficiaries of various credit-linked central schemes. She also announced new schemes and initiatives for J&K, including Tejasvini & Hausala schemes of J&K Bank, Shikhar & Shikara schemes of Punjab National Bank. Tejasvini scheme focuses on providing financial assistance of ₹5 lakh to women between 18 and 35 years for starting their business. Shikhar scheme focuses on meeting credit requirements up to ₹2 crore for hotel and tourism industry. Under Shikara scheme, credit up to ₹15 lakh for purchase/repair of shikaras is provided in the Valley. Sitharaman also laid foundation stone for Rural Self-employment Training Institutes (RSETI) building at Shopian and Baramula and inaugurated J&K Bank branches in Salal, Bagga and Budhan in Reasi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/abrogation-of-article-370-brought-transparent-democratic-govt-nirmala-101637698255524.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: HC orders release of 32 buses of firm owned by Badal family||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered release of 32 buses of Orbit Aviation Private Limited, a firm owned by the Badal family, and directed the Punjab transport department to permit them to ply provisionally on designated routes.The high court bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain acted on the plea of Orbit Aviation Private Limited in which decision to cancel the permits was challenged. The court posted the matter for further hearing on November 29 and sought the government’s response by then.On Monday, the high court had put transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on notice on a similar plea from the firm owned by SAD leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon against cancellation of route permits.The Orbit Aviation had told the court that on October 11, the transport department had permitted to make the payment of the government dues of ₹77.15 lakh in four monthly instalments of ₹19.28 lakh. The first instalment was paid but a week later, permission to pay in instalments was revoked and the petitioner was directed to pay the taxes in lump sum. By November 15, the entire tax was paid for up to November 30 but on November 12, the 32 permits of the petitioner were cancelled, senior advocate Puneet Bali had told court, alleging that it was a case of “political vendetta”.State’s advocate general DS Patwalia had told the court that after the October 18 order, the firm did not pay a single penny nor did it make any application informing the government that it was intending to make the full payment. Hence, the state was constrained to cancel the permit. It was further told that there is no provision in the Act or the scheme for revocation of cancellation of permit and though the court in the exercise of its extraordinary jurisdiction can do so, but the power could be served only if the petition is to be finally heard and allowed, if at all. The court observed that the state’s argument would not bar the court from even granting an interim relief. “In the present case, the position that has emerged is that an order allowing the petitioner to pay instalments was passed; the first instalment was paid; but the order was withdrawn without even issuing any notice to the petitioner and without assigning any reason,” the court said, adding that once the firm had been permitted to make the payment in instalments, a notice must have been issued for withdrawing that order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hc-orders-release-of-32-buses-of-firm-owned-by-badal-family-101637698196026.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh case filed against former journalist sanjeev Mahajan for threatening witness in murder case||Chandigarh Another case has been slapped against Sanjiv Mahajan, a former journalist with a Hindi Daily who is currently lodged in Burail jail in connection to a property grab case, for ‘threatening a witness’ in a 2019 murder cases. The case was registered on the day police gave an undertaking in the high court on Tuesday to file a file status report by December 13 on a complaint, accusing Mahajan of threatening a witness. The Chandigarh Police while opposing the bail plea of Mahajan in the property grab case, told the court that Mahajan “inspite of being behind bars is threatening the prime witness” in the murder case registered in September 2019 at Sector 17 police station. On September 4, 2019, four people had shot dead a Jind resident and injured his friend in the parking lot of old district courts in Sector 17, Chandigarh. Sources in the police said a complaint was lodged, alleging that Mahajan had called the prime witness in the case and asked him not to depose against accused Vikas alias Boxer. “Mahajan had called up the complainant, who is the prime witness in the case, and asked him not to depose against the accused. The complainant has also shared the voice recordings,” said a senior police official not willing to be named. The police are now investigating if the accused had made the call during his court appearance or from the jail. “We have registered a case in this regard. The investigations are also on as to how the accused got access to mobile phone. All those involved would also face action,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. The police would now be seeking voice samples of accused Mahajan for matching them with the call recording.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-case-filed-against-former-journalist-sanjeev-mahajan-for-threatening-witness-in-murder-case-101637698077737.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pathankot grenade blast: Strengthen second line of defence along Pakistan border, says Randhawa||A day after the grenade blast in Pathankot, Punjab deputy CM and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa presided over a high-level meeting of police officials in Amritsar and issued directions to intensify night patrolling to tackle activities of anti-social elements.During the meeting, the minister directed the officials to strengthen the second line of defence along the India-Pakistan border. The threat of drones, which are being used by the anti-national elements of the neighbouring country to smuggle arms, ammunition and drugs into the Indian territory, was also discussed at the meeting, said an official, who was part of the meeting.Randhawa said he has ordered a probe to find lapses behind passing on late information of the Pathankot blast to him and senior police officials. He said the area where the blast took place is without the streetlights. “I have asked officials of Pathankot district administration to arrange adequate lighting in the area, besides installing CCTV cameras,” he said.On Monday morning, a grenade blast took place near Triveni Gate in the cantonment area of Pathankot, sending security agencies into a tizzy.Randhawa said his government has made a plan of installing CCTV cameras in cities as well as in villages and ₹75 crore already been released in this regard. He also directed all station house officers (SHOs) to be present at their headquarters 24x7 and strict action will be taken if anyone is found to be absent.Director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and the senior police officials of Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Jalandhar districts were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pathankot-grenade-blast-strengthen-second-line-of-defence-along-pakistan-border-says-randhawa-101637698076795.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||27-year-old zila parishad member found hanging from tree in Shimla||The body of a 27-year-old woman zila parishad member from Rampur Bushahr’s Jhakri was found hanging from a tree in the forest area close to Shangti locality in Shimla, police said on Tuesday. She was elected to the zila parishad during panchyati raj institutions elections last year with 13 votes. She lived alone in a rented accommodation in Shangti. She had completed her MPhil and was preparing for her PhD examinations. “We had found the body hanging from a tree. Forensic teams have collected the evidence,” said Shimla superintendent of police Monica Bhutungru, adding that things will become clear only after the completion of investigations. It is suspected to be a case of suicide. One of her friends said, “It did not appear from her demeanour that she would take such extreme step.” “She was a fun-loving person who always motivated others to stay happy,” she said, adding that she had recently bought a new car. The zila parishad member had also cleared the junior research fellowship (JRF) examination. She was a member of the CPI(M), party leader Sanjay Chauhan told mediapersons at the Indira Gandhi Medical College, where her body was handed over to her relatives after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27yearold-zila-parishad-member-found-hanging-from-tree-in-shimla-101637698075629.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab health employees’ unions to withdraw strike||Deputy chief minister OP Soni on Tuesday held meetings with representatives of various unions of health department employees in the state.The deputy CM told the unions that their demands will be considered, following which the employees bodies assured to withdraw strikes and demonstrations, according to an official release. Soni thanked the associations for agreeing to resume seamless delivery of health services in the interest of patients. “I thank all the associations who have conceded to the request by government and have assured withdrawal of strikes and to end the demonstrations/agitations. I assure that government will reciprocate their gesture in the most positive manner,” he said in a statement after his meetings with representatives of Staff Nurses Union, NHM employees, ANMs, COVID Volunteers, 108 ambulance drivers and PCS doctors Chandigarh. Soni also directed the department officers to put up the genuine demands of all the associations for immediate approval and work out ways and means to address the demands that require technical intervention. Principal Secretary, health and family welfare, Vikas Garg and director, health, Dr Andesh and director, health, Dr Om Prakash Gojra were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-health-employees-unions-to-withdraw-strike-101637697835557.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh third in country on sustainable development goals index||In the Niti Aayog’s inaugural Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Urban India Index, the Chandigarh has been adjudged as the third best city in the country. Shimla in Himachal Pradesh with a composite score of 75.50 points is the top ranking city, while Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu with 73.29 points is second. Chandigarh scored 72.36 points.The index has been launched in collaboration with Indo-German Development Cooperation. Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar launched the index on Tuesday in Delhi. The SDG Urban Index and Dashboard ranks 56 urban areas on 77 SDG indicators across 46 targets of the SDG framework.Out of 56 urban areas ranked in the index, 44 are with population above one million. Twelve are state capitals with population of less than a million. For each SDG, the urban areas are ranked on a scale of 0-100. A score of 100 implies that the urban area has achieved the targets set for 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-third-in-country-on-sustainable-development-goals-index-101637697715243.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa questions unauthorised deployment of gunmen from battalions||Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has taken strong notice of the trend of unauthorised deployment of gunmen on duty from the police battalions and police stations, directing all the zonal IGs and DIGs to conduct audit and submit report by November 25. The deputy chief minister, while taking note of police officers and personnel going out of their jurisdiction without approval, issued orders that no officer and the employee would leave his or her area of jurisdiction without permission from the supervising officer. The violation of this order would attract strict disciplinary action, he warned in a statement, calling it a serious matter. Randhawa said it has come to his notice that gunmen are deployed in an unauthorised manner from the police battalions/police stations. “The police officers and personnel leave their jurisdictional zones which will not be tolerated,” he said. Additional chief secretary (home) Anurag Verma has issued written directions in this regard to all the IGs and DIGs. They have to conduct manpower audit of minimum two police stations from amongst the area under their jurisdiction and submit the report. Verma has also written to the DGP, all the police commissioners and the SSPs in the matter of not allowing the police officers/personnel to leave without permission their areas of jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-questions-unauthorised-deployment-of-gunmen-from-battalions-101637697658270.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Successive govts lacked will to address Punjab’s problems, says Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the successive governments in Punjab lacked will to address state’s problems and exhorted people to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) if they needed results.Addressing a meeting of traders and industrialists in Hoshiarpur on Tuesday, Sisodia said the AAP government in Delhi had realised almost impossible results with its willpower.“We will not copy paste the Delhi model, but taking inspiration from the Delhi leadership, Punjab’s problems would be solved in consultation with the locals, he said.Punjab is facing problem of unemployment and financial indebtedness, which he said could be overcome by promoting trade and industry.“A prosperous industry can generate employment and improve the fiscal health of the state. Without levying additional taxes, we can improve state’s economy and we have achieved it in Delhi,” he said, claiming that if voted to power, AAP would take the stakeholders on board to solve impending issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/successive-govts-lacked-will-to-address-punjab-s-problems-says-sisodia-101637697479493.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Textile industry seeks rollback of GST hike||With the Union government recently increasing goods and services tax (GST) on garments and textiles from 5% to 12%, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking a rollback of the decision.The letter stated that the textile and garment industry is already struggling for survival amid the pandemic, and this move by the government will push it into a deeper crisis. The industrialists rued that this will impact business at large as prices of woven and knitted fabrics, knitted garments, textile garments etc will increase.Also, it will adversely impact export, as the sector will not be able to compete at the international market and lead to rampant tax evasion, stated industrialists.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said the industry had also opposed an increase in the GST rate, but the government notified it, ignoring their needs and demand. “We have written to Sitharaman to roll back the order, failing which the industry, especially the small units, will collapse,” Ahuja said. The industrialists stated that rising prices of raw material have already been taking a toll on the business.Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar said, “Rather than helping the industry by bringing down the prices, the government has added to our woes. The industry will not be able to survive for long under these circumstances and this hike will further encourage tax evasion. The tax rate should be reduced to 5% to save the industry.”BAP leaders postpone protest outside PM’s residenceEarlier, a group of industrialists under the banner of Bhartiya Aarthik Party (BAP), had announced a protest outside the house of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi in Delhi on November 25. National president of the party, Tarun Jain Bawa, stated that the agitation has been postponed for now as officials from the PM office have invited them for discussing the problems on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-textile-industry-seeks-rollback-of-gst-hike-101637697478333.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays recruitment exam for pre-primary teachers in Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed recruitment exam to be conducted for the 8,393 posts of pre-primary schoolteachers in Punjab.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia and justice Vikas Suri acted on the plea of Najar Singh and others who had challenged criterion adopted by the Punjab government to fill these posts. The posts were advertised in November 2020.The high court has sought necessary affidavit to be filed by the secretary, department of school education, Punjab. Since the exam was scheduled for November 28, the high court, while posting the matter for November 29, asked the state not to hold the examination till further orders.A lawyer associated with the case said that earlier, the diploma holders too were eligible for the posts in question as that was the basic qualification for these posts. But subsequently, the government changed the criterion and made three years experience as education provider necessary, apart from academic and professional qualification, leaving the thousands otherwise eligible, in lurch. This has condition been challenged by these petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-recruitment-exam-for-pre-primary-teachers-in-punjab-101637697296975.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Home guard shot at by suspected robber in Chandigarh’s industrial area||A home guard volunteer with Chandigarh Police, who was manning a ‘naka’, was shot at by a suspected robber in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, on Tuesday night. The injured has been identified as Prakash Singh Negi (40), a native of Uttarakhand. He was rushed to GMSH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, with a bullet injury in the stomach. Till the filing of the report, he was undergoing a surgery. Police said the incident happened around 8pm when Negi was looking for a man who had robbed a woman of her gold jewellery on November 18. The police had information that the accused was coming towards Industrial Area. Police said soon a man on foot on spotting the police team turned around and tried to run away. Negi chased him and the accused allegedly pulled out a gun and fired at him. As soon as the message of the firing was flashed, senior officials, including DGP Praveer Ranjan, rushed to the spot and the entire Sector 29 was sealed and a big search operation launched. It may be mentioned that on November 18, a masked man had robbed a woman working at a store in Elante Mall of her gold jewellery at gunpoint near the mango orchard in Sector 28 when she was walking home after finishing her shift around 9.30pm. After robbing the woman of her valuables, the accused had fled towards Sector 29. A case was registered under Section 397 of the IPC at the Industrial Area police station. Tuesday’s naka was to arrest the accused after police had got some inputs about his presence in the area. “Teams have been constituted to arrest the accused. One gunshot was fired,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/home-guard-shot-at-by-suspected-robber-in-chandigarh-s-industrial-area-101637697295550.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SAD, BSP exchange Mohali, Ludhiana North seats with Raikot, Dinanagar||Ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) on Tuesday announced the exchange of Mohali and Ludhiana North seats with Raikot and Dinanagar seats. Party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the seat share of both parties remains the same.The decision was taken by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BSP state unit head Jasvir Singh Garhi. According to the seat swap arrangement, the BSP will now field its candidates from Raikot and Dinanagar (both reserved for the Scheduled Caste candidates) and the SAD from Mohali and Ludhiana North. SAD had stitched an alliance with BSP after severing ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), its alliance partner of 24 years, last year. As per pre-poll alliance with BSP, the SAD will contest on 97 seats and BSP on 20. Of assembly seats in its quota, the SAD has announced candidates on 83, while the BSP has named about two dozen candidates for the 2022 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sad-bsp-exchange-mohali-ludhiana-north-seats-with-raikot-dinanagar-101637697176728.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana wins sub-junior Punjab state baseball championship||Ludhiana emerged champions during the 8th Sub-junior Punjab State Baseball Championship after defeating Barnala 2-0 on Tuesday. The tournament is being played at Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Gill village, LudhianaIn boys’ category, 12 teams participated including Moga, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, SAS Nagar, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Barnala, Fazilka and Malerkotla.In the semi-finals, Ludhiana beat Moga 25-6 and Barnala beat Patiala 10-9 score. The match for third place will be played between Moga and Patiala on Wednesday.Sukhdev Singh Aulakh, secretary, Punjab Baseball Association, was the chief guest on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-wins-sub-junior-punjab-state-baseball-championship-101637697175422.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC employees end protest after CM assures regularisation in 10 days||A day after chief minister Charanjit Channi announced the regularisation of contractual municipal corporation (MC) employees in the next 10 days, the Ludhiana MC employees’ union, Municipal Karamchari Dal, ended its protest outside civic body’s Zone-A office on Tuesday. The employees have been protesting for the last eight working days and it was lifted after they were assured by mayor Balkar Sandhu that they will be regularised in 10 days, as announced by CM Channi. Chairman of the union, Vijay Danav, demanded that apart from sweepers, the state should also regularise the sewermen. “We believe that the CM will fulfil his promise so that the employees do not have to raise an agitation again after 10 days,” said Danav. Sandhu said that CM Channi has assured that 2,400 Ludhiana MC employees will be regularised in 10 days and the others will also be regularised in the coming time.Mayor honoured by MC employees’ unionMeanwhile, members of another MC employees’ union - Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee, honoured Sandhu at the Zone-D office for taking up the matter of regularising MC employees at state level. The employees, led by chairman Ashwani Sahota and president Jasdev Sekhon also showered flower petals on Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-employees-end-protest-after-cm-assures-regularisation-in-10-days-101637696997466.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||At ₹90 a kilo, tomato price hits all-time high in Chandigarh apni mandis||Even as the rates of most vegetables in the city have gone down since the slash in the fuel prices, there is no let up in the soaring tomato prices. The key kitchen ingredient priced around ₹60 per kg in October end has already seen 50% price hike since and is available at ₹90 per kg at the apni mandis of the city. This is the highest tomato price in recent years, mandi officials said. Mandi supervisor with the Punjab Mandi Board Satbir Singh said, “While the price of tomato had gone up to ₹70-80 per kg in previous years, it never touched ₹90 per kg in the mandis. The apni mandi rate is still on the lower side as vendors are selling at as high as ₹120 per kg.” At the Sector 26 wholesale mandi, the tomato price is between ₹70-80 per kg.On the high price, Singh said, “There is a shortage of supply. We are getting tomatoes only from Himachal Pradesh where the production got hit due to erratic weather at the end of the monsoons. We are not getting tomatoes from Punjab yet and it will take around two to three weeks. After that a significant drop in prices can be expected.”The price of other vegetables, meanwhile, has stabilised. Staple vegetables like onion that was being sold for ₹40 per kg two weeks ago is now available for ₹35 per kg. The price of potato too has come down from ₹25 per kg to ₹20.Price of some other vegetables has fallen significantly which officials attributed to cut in fuel prices. Capsicum which was selling for ₹120 per kg at the start of the month is now available for ₹60 per kg. Cauliflower’s price too has come down from ₹70 per kg to ₹40. The prices are expected to stay on the lower side in the coming days, officials said.BoxTomato price surge October 12: ₹50 per kgOctober 26: ₹60 per kgNovember 9: ₹70 per kgNovember 20: ₹80 per kgNovember 23: ₹90 per kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-90-a-kilo-tomato-price-hits-all-time-high-in-chandigarh-apni-mandis-101637696878378.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt hits back at Channi, says capitulated to Badals to save his brother||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ridiculed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s frequent accusations that he had “connived with the Badals” and harmed Punjab’s interests. Hitting back at his successor, Amarinder said that actually it was other way round, as Channi had connived with and capitulated before the Badals to save his brother in the Ludhiana City Centre case. “It is a classic case of pot calling the kettle black”, Capt Amarinder remarked, adding, “It is not me, but Mr Channi, who had pledged his support and conscience to Badals to save his brother”. Responding to Channi’s allegations, Capt Amarinder said, “Although I did not want to join issue with him (Channi), his frequent false accusations have forced me to reveal his capitulations before Sukhbir Singh Badal in 2007 to save his brother who was an accused along with me in the Ludhiana City Centre case”. The two-time former CM said that he had put the Badals behind the bars in 2002 and in reprisal they had filed a false case against him, which he fought in the courts for 13 years, while Channi himself tried to buy peace with them to save his brother and pledged his support to them (Badals) in the Vidhan Sabha.Capt Amarinder said that Channi, who at that time was an independent MLA, allied with the Badals to save his brother. “It is not me who had any understanding with Badals, but you who joined them to save your brother in the same case in which I was also an accused”, he said, adding that those living in glass houses should not throw stones on others. “Had I aligned with the Badals and got some understanding with them, as you are accusing me of, I would not have faced the persecution for 13 years”, he reminded the chief minister, while challenging him to deny that he did not capitulate before Sukhbir Badal and begged pardon for his brother. Amarinder resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 after a bitter tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu and revolt by four ministers and several party legislators amid infighting in the state Congress. The party later picked Channi as the next chief minister of the state. The veteran leader has since quit the Congress and announced his separate party, Punjab Lok Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-hits-back-at-channi-says-capitulated-to-badals-to-save-his-brother-101637696875480.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: MLA Talwar inaugurates storm sewer project||MLA from Ludhiana east constituency, Sanjay Talwar, inaugurated the project to install a storm sewer line at Chandigarh Road on Monday. The work is being taken up to prevent waterlogging on the road during monsoon.  The line will be installed from Police Lines Chowk on Chandigarh Road to Buddha Nullah point on Tajpur Road via Sector 32. The project will be taken up at a cost of ₹5 crore and deadline of three months has been fixed for its completion. Councillors Vanit Bhatia, Kuldeep Janda and Umesh Sharma among others were also present. Residents of Chandigarh Road and adjoining areas of Sectors 39 and 32 had previously raised a hue and cry over choked sewer lines and waterlogging during the monsoons. Traffic jams are also witnessed on the road and residents face difficulties in even stepping out of their houses. A few residents had also forwarded a complaint to the chief minister’s office in the past.Premjit Singh, a resident of sector 39, said the accumulated rain and sewer water even enters the houses and parks in the area, resulting in unhygienic conditions. Despite repeated complaints being submitted with the authorities and CM’s office in the past, the authorities have failed to resolve the issue, he added. MLA Talwar said that the sewer lines get choked due to dumping of dyeing industry waste in the MC sewer. After completion of the project, the accumulated rain water will be dumped into the Buddha Nullah through the storm sewer line, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mla-talwar-inaugurates-storm-sewer-project-101637696815441.html
24-11-2021||Other||One more drug smuggler held with smack worth ₹90 lakh in Bahraich||Bahraich: One more drug smuggler was arrested with smack worth ₹90 lakh from the India-Nepal border area here on Monday night, police said. On Sunday, a police team had also arrested a man from the border area and recovered charas worth ₹1.5 crore from him. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Ashok Kumar said, “A joint team of Rupaideha police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) recovered smack worth ₹90 lakh from the possession of the arrested smuggler.” The ASP said that SHO of Rupideha police station, Pramod Kumar Tripathi along with SSB men were patrolling along the border when they found a suspicious person near the pillar no 651/5 in Jamunaha area around 11.30pm on Monday and detained him. “Police recovered 87 grams of smack worth ₹90 lakh from the possession of the arrested smuggler, identified as Abdul Hasan, a resident of Ghasiyaran under Rupaideha police station of Bahraich district. A case under section 8/20 of the NDPS Act was registered against Hasan and he was sent to jail after being produced before the court,” the ASP said. The police officer said that both the police and SSB men had tightened noose around the drug smugglers and strict vigil was being maintained along the India-Nepal border to check drug smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-more-drug-smuggler-held-with-smack-worth-rs-90-lakh-in-bahraich-101637696696193.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU PhD scholar awarded PM fellowship for research||Oshin Bhargav, a PhD scholar from the department of entomology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has brought laurels to the institution by receiving the prestigious Prime Minister Fellowship for her doctoral research.The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) of the department of science and technology, government of India, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and private partner FMC Corporation, awarded her the fellowship for four years to pursue her doctoral research.Oshin will work on “ecological studies on fall armyworm in maize” under the guidance of Naveen Aggarwal, principal entomologist (insect ecology), department of entomology, PAU. The fall armyworm has emerged as a major threat to the maize industry in a very short period of time and the information about the influence of ecological parameters on fall armyworm population will be used to devise effective integrated management strategies for this pest under Indian conditions.PAU vice-chancellor DK Tiwari congratulated Oshin and her guide for this outstanding achievement and wished them success in their future endeavours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-phd-scholar-awarded-pm-fellowship-for-research-101637696637695.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three prominent Madhya Marg crossings in Chandigarh to have roundabouts||To reduce mishaps and manage vehicular traffic better, roundabouts will be set up at three intersections on the Madhya Marg. The decision was taken by the UT adviser Dharam Pal who chaired a meeting of the State-Level Road Safety Council of the city on Tuesday.The roundabouts which will also be equipped with Automatic Traffic Control (ATC) lights will be set up at the Press Light Point, Transport Light Point and Housing Board Chowk, all on the Madhya Marg. While there was no timeframe given for their construction, the meeting will be reconvened in three months where the action taken towards this will be discussed.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, “After analysing the trend of fatalities and accidents during night time at these locations, we have suggested ATC-equipped rotaries regulating speed. This will be done on the pattern of Tribune Chowk where mishaps and fatalities in mishaps during the night have considerably come down.” Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija who also attended the meeting said the roundabouts will be created with speed-tables similar to the ones at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. “This is being done as a part of modernisation of the city. Roundabouts, when combined with speed-tables, check people from speeding and bring down the chances of accidents,” he said.The meeting which was also attended by the UT transport secretary, engineering secretary, deputy commissioner, chief architects for the MC and the administration among others also took some more traffic-related decisions. Special parking stickers will be issued to drivers who are differently-abled and special parking spots will also be earmarked for them. In view of foggy conditions in winters, reflective tape will be fixed on all roundabouts which will also have proper lane and directional markings. They will also be redesigned to reduce impact of collision. To prevent jaywalking on V2 and V3 roads, strong iron grills will be installed. Pedestrian and cycle paths will be properly lit up with signages while proper lay-bays will be made for buses.----Other decisions 1. Special parking stickers and parking spaces for the differently-abled2. Iron grills on V2 and V3 roads to prevent jaywalking3. Redesigning roundabouts to reduce impact of collisions4. Strict action against wrong parking on major roads, cycle tracks and pavements||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-prominent-madhya-marg-crossings-in-chandigarh-to-have-roundabouts-101637696636739.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested by CBI in graft case in Yamunanagar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested an enforcement officer of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) of Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri town and a man in an alleged bribery case of ₹21 lakh.In a statement issued by the agency, a case was registered on a complaint against the officer Anil Kumar and a man, Ashok Gupta, where it was alleged that even though the complainant had deposited all dues for the period November, 2018 to July, 2019 relating to provident fund in respect of the employees of his firm, the EPFO opened an enquiry under the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 against the complainant’s firm.“It was also alleged that during the said enquiry, the enforcement officer informed the complainant to contact a private person for getting clearance in the said enquiry. Accordingly, the complainant met Gupta who allegedly demanded a bribe of the said amount on behalf of Kumar in lieu of settling the enquiry,” the statement reads.The agency further said a trap was laid and Gupta was arrested while demanding and accepting bribe from the complainant.“The enforcement officer was also caught and searches were conducted at the premises of the accused in Jagadhri. Both will be presented before a court on Wednesday,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-by-cbi-in-graft-case-in-yamunanagar-101637696635178.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 42 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Tuesday reported 42 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,043, according to a medical bulletin.With one Covid-related fatality in Mansa district, the death toll reached 16,587 in the state, it said. The state recorded a positivity rate of 0.25%.Among the fresh cases, maximum 13 were registered in Muktsar and five each in Patiala and Mohali, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state also rose to 270.With 32 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,196, it said.A total of 15,98,89,811 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 16,978 were tested on Tuesday. As many as 1,01,033 doses of vaccine were administered in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-42-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101637696575183.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to buy five lakh tablets for Class 11, 12 students||The Haryana government on Tuesday decided to purchase five lakh tablets, which will be given to Class 11 and 12 students of the government schools in the upcoming academic session.The decision to buy the tablets costing ₹560 crore was taken in the high-power purchase committee meeting that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired on Tuesday. Khattar said in future, the state government plans to give tablets to students of other classes as well.State education minister Kanwar Pal, transport minister Mool Chand Sharma, power minister Ranjit Singh, agriculture minister JP Dalal, minister of state for labour and employment Anoop Dhanak and minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh were among others present in the meeting.At least 23 agendas were tabled during the meeting in which decisions related to purchases worth about ₹1,000 crore were taken.As many as 15,000 tubewell connections will be provided to farmers and the committee also gave nod to purchase power equipment worth ₹350 crore.Will not allow ‘Parchi aur kharchi’ in jobsResponding to a question, the chief minister said curbing corruption is the main goal of his government.If any officer or employee is found involved in corruption, strict action will be taken against him, he said, adding that people are getting jobs in the government on the basis of merit and without ‘parchi aur kharchi’.He said the government will punish those indulging in corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-buy-five-lakh-tablets-for-class-11-12-students-101637696516117.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: Ludhiana logs 19 fresh cases||Nineteen fresh dengue cases and two suspected casualties due to the virus were reported in the district on Tuesday. A 70-year-old man of Jagraon and a 29-year-old woman of Hargobind Nagar succumbed with symptoms similar to dengue.Of the 1,732 confirmed dengue cases in the district, 1,282 are from Ludhiana, while 4,383 more cases are suspected in the district.1 more Covid caseOne Covid case was also reported, taking the active cases in the district to 14. As many as 87,651 people were found infected, of which 85,528 residents have successfully defeated the virus, while 2,109 have succumbed.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSSix mobile phones snatchedIn yet another incident, a gang of six masked men robbed as many labourers of their mobile phones and ₹2,000 cash near Kasabad on Tuesday. The victims have been identified as Dharminder Kumar, 24, of Shivpuri, Rati Pal, 30, of Shivpuri, Munish, 18, of New Azad Nagar, Pritam, 19, of Inder Vihar colony, Mohit, 18, of Bharti Colony and Hritik, 20, of Tibba Road. Kumar stated that they are friends and work in different units. On Tuesday, they were returning from the Sutlej river, near village Kasabad when six-masked men, riding two motorcycles and holding sharp-edged weapons, turned up there and robbed them, after which they lodged a complaint at Salem Tabri police station. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO at Salem Tabri police station, said, “We have initiated an investigation. The police will arrest the accused very soon.”PAU students participate in skill development competitionStudents of Punjab Agricultural University took part in a regional-level skill development competition held in Chandigarh. Dr Kuldeep Singh Pandhu, associate director of skill development, PAU, said that Gazhal Rani and Harkirat Kaur Meshiana took part in floristry while Jagjit Singh and Navjit Kaur participated in the landscape gardening competitions. The students were trained for the competition through a training course held from October 25 to November 2 in which Shivani Rana and Sharanvir gave instructions for landscaping and guidelines for landscape gardening were given by Dr Ranjit Singh , Dr Sarvesh and Dr Simrat Singh. Kanwaljit Kaur and Bhupinder Kaur congratulated the students and motivated them for hard work in future.Free milk adulteration testing camp at GADVASU on Nov 25, 26The College of Dairy Science and Technology (CODST), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), will organise a milk adulteration testing camp on November 25 and 26 on the occasion of National Milk Day. Those who want to get a milk sample tested have to bring at least 100ml in a chilled, raw state in a clean and dry glass/plastic bottle to CODST between 9 am to 5pm on the dates mentioned above. The sample should be labelled with the name and contact number of the person. It will be analysed at the college and quality results will be conveyed through WhatsApp or text messages on the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-ludhiana-logs-19-fresh-cases-101637696455245.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana agri minister attributes DAP shortage to Covid pandemic||Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister JP Dalal on Tuesday said the fertiliser shortage is across the globe and its due to the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in its production and distribution.According to the minister, India imports DAP fertiliser at the rate of ₹3,000 per bag and keeping in view the interest of farmers, the Centre provides it to the farmers at the rate of ₹1,200 per bag.Dalal said similarly, urea is imported at ₹2,400 per bag and is being provided to farmers at ₹267 per bag.“The entire world is facing fertiliser shortage, besides Haryana. During the pandemic, it has been a tough time for DAP production, distribution and shipping which has further led to DAP shortage in country,” Dalal said, assuring farmers that there will be no shortage of fertilisers.During a video conference with Union minister of health, chemical and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya, the agriculture minister expressed gratitude to the Union minister for meeting the immediate demand of DAP fertiliser in Haryana.“With immediate assistance provided by the Centre, there is no shortage of fertiliser in Haryana,” said Dalal.Regarding the requirement of urea fertiliser, Dalal said about 11 lakh metric tonne (MT) urea fertiliser is required in state and that about 4.5 lakh MT urea has already been made available to the state by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-agri-minister-attributes-dap-shortage-to-covid-pandemic-101637696397555.html
24-11-2021||Other||Jat reservation campaign from Dec 1: Yashpal Malik reminds Modi, Shah of their promises||MEERUT All India Jat Aarakshan Samiti has decided to launch ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab from December 1, to raise the demand of reservation to Jats by including them in the list of Other Backward Class (OBC). “The campaign will remind Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home minister Amit Shah about their assurances given to the Jat community thrice (2015, 2017 and 2019) to fulfil their demand of reservation, but nothing has happened in past seven years,” said Samiti’s national president Yashpal Malik while making announcement regarding the campaign on Tuesday. Malik accused both the leaders for not fulfilling their assurances given to the community during a meeting of MLAs, MPs and other leaders of the community. “They gave assurance during a meeting at PM residence in March 2015, thereafter in February 2017 and then in 2019 ahead of the Assembly polls in UP and Lok Sabha elections, respectively,” said Malik adding that the community was misled and felt cheated. He said that the Jan Jagran Abhiyan would start from December 1. In the first phase, letters would be written to MLAs and MPs of all constituencies of UP, Haryana and Uttarakhand, he added. Samiti’s state president Jagatveer Singh Sirohi claimed that Jat community had its impact in 125 constituencies of Uttar Pradesh and letters would be written to all MLAs and MPs of these constituencies regarding this. He said, besides this, Samiti’s divisional level meetings would also be convened soon. Malik also released a pamphlet in which Samiti had given details about its leaders and meetings with PM and home minister, and assurances given by them to fulfil the community’s demand. Malik demanded that PM Modi should fulfil his assurance or they would intensify the movement if their demand was overlooked and ignored. He also raised the issue of withdrawing cases against people registered during the reservation movement in Haryana in 2017 and demanded that Haryana government should respect the agreement finalised between the Jat community leaders and state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jat-reservation-campaign-from-dec-1-yashpal-malik-reminds-modi-shah-of-their-promises-101637696335216.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cancel all exams held during Nagar’s tenure: Congress||Stepping up pressure on the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, tShe Congress on Tuesday sought cancellation of all examinations conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) during the tenure of HCS officer Anil Nagar as deputy secretary of the commission.The state vigilance bureau had arrested Nagar from the commission’s office in Panchkula last week for allegedly accepting illegal gratification for manipulating the results of dental surgeon examination. Subsequent investigations have revealed Nagar’s complicity in manipulating selection process for other jobs as well.Addressing a press conference, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said this “job sales scam” is bigger than the ‘Vyapam scam’.“Investigations should be conducted by an SIT under the supervision of the chief justice of the high court. This would not only ensure fair probe but also reveal the links of those sitting on high chairs,” he said.“The HPSC has become the Haryana Post Sales Counter. The arrest of HPSC deputy secretary Anil Nagar and two others is only tip of the iceberg. Nagar and few others are not the last link in the scam. The rot runs deep,” Surjewala claimed.The former minister said the chief minister continues to mislead people of the state by coining ‘jumlas’ like jobs on merit, transparency and employment without any ‘sifarish’ or money.“The fact, however, is that jobs are being sold, papers are being leaked, and blank OMR sheets are getting filled after the examinations,” Surjewala alleged.The Congress leader said Nagar was the blue-eyed officer of the Khattar government. “From getting postings in Haryana school education board to HPSC, he continued to get postings on important posts. This would not have been possible without the blessings of someone powerful in the state government,” he said.The Congress leader said roll numbers of 24 candidates who appeared for the HCS exams were also recovered from Nagar’s purse.“The question arises as to why, how and who gave the responsibility of management and maintaining secrecy of important recruitments to Nagar, a junior HCS officer with over five years of service after bypassing the HPSC secretary,” Surjewala said.The former minister said the Khattar government indirectly privatised the HPSC and conduct of examinations in the name of improving recruitment process.“Private companies are preparing papers, managing centres, issuing roll numbers, conducting exams, scanning OMR sheets, preparing results and taking decisions on the objections to the answer keys. Everything is in the hands of private companies and their contractual employees like Ashwini Sharma, who have no fixed accountability. If there is some hue and cry, then one company is blacklisted and a new company is floated with another name and contracts get awarded,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cancel-all-exams-held-during-nagar-s-tenure-congress-101637696215258.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Nights in Chandigarh turn colder; brace for more temperature drop, says IMD||Minimum temperature in the city touched this season’s new low on Tuesday by taking a nearly 2-degree plunge from Monday’s 11.6 degrees Celsius to settling at 9.8 degrees C. The mercury is expected to drop further according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Before this, minimum temperature had gone down to 9.9 degrees on November 16. The lowest temperature for November last year was 8.7 degrees C, recorded on the 29th day of the month. IMD officials said minimum temperature will continue reducing by 1-2 degrees every week as December approaches.Maximum temperature also dropped down from 26.6 degrees on Monday to 26.1 degrees on Tuesday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 27 degrees C while minimum temperature is expected to hover around 11 degrees C, IMD officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nights-in-chandigarh-turn-colder-brace-for-more-temperature-drop-says-imd-101637696037699.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Creamy layer: Wealth test, socio-economic status to be criteria for exclusion from BC quota||Specifying a fresh income and wealth criteria for identifying persons in the ‘creamy layer’ among the backward classes (BC) to exclude them from the purview of reservation in public employment and educational institutions, the Haryana government has ordered that children whose parents have a gross annual income of ₹6 lakh and above or who possessed wealth above ₹1 crore for last three consecutive years will not be entitled for BC reservation. Income from all sources will be clubbed to arrive at the gross annual income.The fresh criteria have been notified on directions of the Supreme Court which on August 24 had quashed a Haryana government notification from August 17, 2016 pertaining to identification of creamy layer from backward classes solely on the basis of economic criterion.The new criteria are broadly on the lines of recommendations made by the National Commission for Backward Classes in its 2015 review of income criteria for creamy layer.The 2016 notification also did sub-classification of backward classes which was held arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution by the Punjab and Haryana high court. Besides, fixing income criteria as ₹6 lakh for identifying and excluding the BC ‘creamy layer’, the 2016 notification divided the remaining BCs who were eligible for reservation into two groups on the basis of their annual.The first group comprised persons whose gross annual income was up to ₹3 lakh and the other whose income was between ₹3-6 lakh.The new creamy layerThe Haryana welfare of scheduled castes and backward classes department, in a November 17 notification, has also excluded sons and daughters of Class 1 and 2 officers of central, state and all India services from the purview of BC reservation.Children of officers holding equivalent or comparable posts in public sector undertakings, banks, insurance organisations, universities have also been excluded from the BC quota.As per the notification, children of armed forces personnel, including paramilitary forces whose either or both parents are in the rank of major or above, and children whose family owns land more than the permissible limit under the land ceiling law have also been excluded from the BC quota.Children of constitutional personalities or persons holding constitutional posts including MPs and MLAs have been excluded from the purview of reservation.BC sub-classification held arbitrary by the HCThe August 2016 ‘creamy layer’ notification, held arbitrary by the high court, had sub-classified the BCs stating that children of persons having gross annual income up to ₹3 lakh shall first of all get benefit of reservation in services and admission in educational institutions.The left-out quota shall go to that class of BC citizens who earn more than ₹3 lakh but up to ₹6 lakh per annum. The sections of backward classes earning above ₹6 lakh per year shall be considered ‘creamy layer’ as per the 2016 notification.While directing the state government to issue a fresh creamy layer criteria within three months, the apex court said a notification issued by the Haryana government on June 7, 1995 was in tune with the SC judgement in Indira Sawhney case.The 1995 notification excluded certain persons who held constitutional posts and those who were in employment of the state and the Centre in higher posts from the benefit of reservation.In addition, the social advancement of other categories was taken into account for the purpose of including such categories in ‘creamy layer’.The apex court said according to the August 2016 notification, the identification of ‘creamy layer’ among backward classes was strangely restricted on the basis of economic criteria only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/creamy-layer-wealth-test-socio-economic-status-to-be-criteria-for-exclusion-from-bc-quota-101637695975375.html
24-11-2021||Other||Online fraud: Prayagraj cyber cell retrieves lost cash of 7 bank customers||PRAYAGRAJ: The cyber cell of Prayagraj police have retrieved ₹2.20 lakh of seven bank customers who were duped by online fraudsters on different pretexts. The cyber con men called the victims on their phones and lured them to disclose the OTP for siphoning off the cash from their bank accounts or drained away cash from their bank accounts through Any Desk App or Paytm, police said on Tuesday. SP (Crime) Satish Chandra said, “The frauds were committed between November 14 and 22 in which seven bank customers of the city were duped of their money. They approached the cyber cell team, following which immediate action was taken on their complaints. With assistance of different payment gateways and channels, majority of the lost cash was recovered within 24 hours of the frauds and was transferred in the bank account of complainants. While cyber cell is committed to assist online fraud victims, but bank customers should be alert and aware of different modes of frauds.” “People should not disclose their ATM PIN, UPI, OTP and other bank details under any circumstances to persons who make calls while luring bank customers on different pretexts. In case, if money is siphoned off from bank accounts, people should immediately approach cyber cell for assistance,” the SP added. One of the cyber crime victims Aishwarya Kesarwani whose lost amount of ₹9,9000 was returned by cyber cell said that he lost the amount through Paytm app. Aishwarya appreciated the efforts of cyber cell team for recovery of his lost amount. Rajesh Pandey of Georgetown, Sunil Prajapati of Dhumnaganj, Akash Kesarwani of Bara, Rammurti Mishra of Georgetown, Ikrar Ahmad of Mauaima and Ravindra Kumar of Handia also got back their lost cash following efforts of the cyber cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-fraud-prayagraj-cyber-cell-retrieves-lost-cash-of-7-bank-customers-101637695735187.html
24-11-2021||Gurugram||Two dead after car falls into open drain on Pataudi Road||Two men allegedly drowned after their car fell into an open drain near Gadoli village on Pataudi Road early Monday. Police said they suspect that a speeding car rammed into the victims’ car, following which they lost control of the vehicle and the car fell into an open drain. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the men were driving from Pataudi village to Gurugram. “When they reached near the culvert constructed over Najafgarh drain in Gadoli village, they lost control of the vehicle and the car fell into the drain, which was around 5-7 feet deep. The electronic system of the car malfunctioned and all the doors of the car got autolocked, and both men got stuck inside the car,” he said. Police said the autopsy report revealed that the death was due to drowning. According to the police, the incident took place around 2.45am on Monday, when the victims, identified as Keshav Kumar (24) of Pathera village and Dharamvir Singh (29) of Dhanoda village of Mahendragarh, were on their way to Gurugram via Pataudi Road. Police said both the men were childhood friends and business partners. They were in town to attend the wedding of Singh’s relative. Dharamvir was behind the wheel when the incident took place, said police. Sangwan said passersby informed the police control room, following which a team from Sector 10 police station went to the spot. By the time a police team called the crane to fish out the car, both the men had drowned. “They were taken to Sector 10 Civil hospital where doctors declared them dead on arrival. The body was handed over to the family after an autopsy,” he said. Police said the culvert where the accident took place is narrow and devoid of any protective wall on its sides. Sangwan said the Public Works Department (PWD) is responsible for the fencing of the drains but nothing has been done which is a safety hazard. “There have been similar incidents in the past in other parts of the city and we wrote to the agency but to no avail. We will again write to them to inspect the area and take necessary action for the safety of the commuters,”he said. The PWD did not respond to request for comment.Police said they are yet to get the technical report from the automobile agency explaining how the car doors got locked and windows could not be opened, potentially allowing the men to save their lives.“We have received footage from six CCTV cameras and can see a few speeding vehicles crossing that stretch but we are suspecting one car rammed into the victims’ car, which was damaged in the front. We are trying to get the registration number of the car based on which we will question the owner and check the condition of the car,” Sangwan said. Police said that area has multiple CCTV cameras installed by private individuals, besides CCTV cameras installed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority. A case has been registered against unknown persons under sections 379 (rash driving) and 304A (death in accident) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 10 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-dead-after-car-falls-into-open-drain-on-pataudi-road-101637695435284.html
24-11-2021||Other||Gurugram’s air improves to ‘poor’ for the first time in eight days||Gurugram’s air quality registered an improvement on Tuesday from the “very poor” category to the “poor” category for the first time in eight days with an average Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 270, according to the daily bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Experts attributed this improvement to an increase in wind speed in the National Capital Region.The AQI reading at the air quality monitoring station at Gwal Pahari was 259, at Teri Gram, it was 274, at Vikas Sadan, it was 269 and at Sector 51, the reading was 304.An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Experts, however, added that while the slight dispersal of pollutants on Monday and Tuesday was due to the wind speed touching 19-20kmph, the relief was temporary, and the pollution level was likely to deteriorate from Wednesday, as the wind speed was likely to slow down.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded Gurugram’s maximum temperature at 25 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and its minimum temperature at 10.8 degrees Celsius.An IMD bulletin on Tuesday said that the predominant surface wind is likely to blow from the southeast direction of Delhi with a speed of 5-10kmph. The wind speed is likely to remain between 5kmph and 8kmph on Thursday. “The air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in ‘poor’ to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday. The air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday,” the IMD said, adding that for the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category.Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, also pointed out that slowing down of winds will impact air quality in a big way, as it will become difficult for the pollutants to disperse. “Monday and Tuesday saw the dispersal of pollutants but this phenomenon is not going to help from Wednesday. The AQI will again reach the ‘severe’ category and the situation will continue for the next 15 days. It can improve if it rains in December but the forecast is bleak,” he said.The Gurugram administration, in order to curb the rising pollution, said that it directed civic agencies to ensure water is sprinkled and anti-smog guns are deployed in areas where construction is taking place. “Directions have been issued to all stakeholders to take all measures for curbing local pollution and to implement Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gururgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugrams-air-improves-to-poor-for-the-first-time-in-eight-days-101637695075247.html
24-11-2021||Patna||As Bihar governor preps for Delhi trip, Magadh Univ vice-chancellor goes on leave||PATNA: Bihar’s Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad, who was raided by special vigilance team investigating him for corruption, finally went on medical leave on Tuesday after pressure was mounted on Raj Bhavan to take firm action against the top university official.Magadh University pro-vice chancellor Vibhuti Narayan Singh will handle charge as vice chancellor from November 23 to December 12, a Raj Bhavan notification late on Tuesday evening said after Prasad’s request for medical leave was granted.The Raj Bhavan announcement came hours after top officials confirmed that Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan will leave for Delhi on Wednesday. “We don’t know his itinerary in Delhi, but he is going on Wednesday,” said Robert L Chongthu, principal secretary to the governor said.People familiar with the matter said the governor is likely to meet Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and some other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.The governor’s Delhi visit comes at a time Raj Bhavan and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government have faced-off on Rajendra Prasad’s continuation as Magadh university vice chancellor though he is under investigation for corruption.That Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and top education department officials were not present at a Raj Bhavan ceremony to felicitate best teachers and students in the state’s universities was seen to indicate the divide between the gubernatorial office and the elected government.Choudhary made a pointed reference to his governor’s office keeping his department out of the selection process for the awards. “It is entirely Chancellor’s function. We don’t know what period of performance has been considered for award and if the various categories of award conform to the advertisement,” he added.The governor’s choice already has been questioned by some. On Monday, Prof Md Qudus, vice chancellor of Patna-based Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU) complained to chief minister Nitish Kumar levelling corruption allegations against Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) vice chancellor SP Singh, who was selected for the best vice chancellor’s award by the governor. SP Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts on his phone.BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said it was an issue between the state government and Raj Bhawan. “I cannot comment on this. Governor is a constitutional position. The organisation of the BJP has nothing to do with it,” he added.“There seems to be lack of unanimity between the Raj Bhawan and the state government on the issue of appointment of VCs and the matter started flaring up after several VCs from UP got appointed in the state universities in the last few years, coinciding with the Governors from the neighbouring state,” said social analyst Prof NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/as-bihar-governor-preps-for-delhi-trip-magadh-univ-vice-chancellor-goes-on-leave-101637695017748.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Minister Randhawa orders probe into Adampur ‘fund misuse’ during Akali tenure in Punjab||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday ordered a probe into alleged misuse of funds meant for panchayats in Adampur assembly segment during the tenure of the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government. He directed the Jalandhar (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) to submit a report in the next 10 days, saying that no one would be spared if found guilty in the probe. Randhawa, who holds the home and cooperation portfolios, flagged off the 2021-22 crushing season at the Bhogpur cooperative sugar mill during which nearly 36 lakh quintal sugarcane will be crushed. He also laid the foundation stone of a 15 MW power generation plant and a bio-CNG plant at an outlay of ₹30 crore each. He said the previous SAD-BJP government compromised the interests of cane growers of the region. The previous government not only halted the development of the sugar mill but was also intent on handing over operations of the project to private players, the minister claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minister-randhawa-orders-probe-into-adampur-fund-misuse-during-akali-tenure-in-punjab-101637694776231.html
24-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Agencies asked to send daily report on pollution measures||The Gurugram administration on Tuesday directed the different government agencies to send a daily report on the measures taken by them to curb air pollution in the district. The directions were issued by Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg who chaired a review meeting on the measures being taken under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).“The issues related to pollution were discussed in detail and all departments and agencies have been asked to send a daily report to my office. I will be monitoring the drive daily to ensure better coordination and enforcement,” said Garg, adding that he has also asked the residents to share their ideas for curbing pollution. The meeting was attended by officials from different agencies, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Garg directed the MCG to prepare a roster for mechanical cleaning of roads to mitigate the dust effect, and submit a daily action taken report in this matter. “The officials have been asked to ensure that dust control measures are implemented strictly at construction sites such as Atul Kataria Chowk and Mahabir Chowk,” said Garg.During the meeting, the deputy commissioner also asked the officials to reclaim and revive the green belts in the city most of which are either in bad shape or encroached upon. “The green belts must be revived and encroachments removed by respective agencies. More green cover will help reduce pollution levels. I have directed that a weekly report in this regard must be submitted to my office,” said Garg, adding that HSVP has also been asked to curb dust pollution in Sector 29 and deploy a smog gun for this purpose. Taking into account the large number of potholes and broken roads in the city, which add to dust pollution, Garg directed the MCG to complete the work of repairing these potholes and broken roads by December 15. He also directed the MCG to prepare an action plan within a week for removing construction debris, garbage and other kinds of waste material lying on roadsides and open spaces. He directed the corporation to complete this work in the next two months.The MCG officials informed the administration that 15 teams have been constituted by the corporation to repair the roads under its jurisdiction across the city.Garg also asked city residents to share their suggestions at grap.mcg.gov.in so that these can be discussed and implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-agencies-asked-to-send-daily-report-on-pollution-measures-101637694596363.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Willing to field candidates from all 117 assembly segments in Punjab: BKU’s Charuni||Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Tuesday said they were willing to field candidates from all 117 constituencies in Punjab in the assembly elections early next year. The BKU leader, who held meetings with farmers in Bhawanigarh, Sunam and Dhuri segments of Sangrur district, said, “We will give responsibility to those who want to serve the people. We are making efforts. We have started the ‘Mission Punjab’ to clean politics and we want legislators be elected from among common people and not from traditional parties who looted people in the past seven decades.”About the farmer unions’ opposition to his political activities, he said, “I am being invited by people in Punjab. If they oppose me, the masses will respond to them. Punjabis played a key role in the freedom movement but our own leaders are exploiting us.”The agriculture sector has not remained a profitable profession, he said, adding that the youth of Punjab is migrating in search of greener pastures in other countries and politicians were responsible for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/willing-to-field-candidates-from-all-117-assembly-segments-in-punjab-bku-s-charuni-101637694475566.html
24-11-2021||Other||IKEA to build shopping centre in Gurugram||Furniture major IKEA, which bought land in the city in 2017, will build a shopping centre and construction of the project will begin early next year, officials said on Tuesday. Ingka Group, parent of IKEA Retail, said that the project, which will be completed by 2024, will create about 2,500 jobs. The estimated investment for the project is around ₹3,500 crore, a statement issued by the group said. The IKEA project will come up in Sector 47 where the company had purchased 10 acres of land from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran in 2017. The company had said that the proposed IKEA store will come up over 4 lakh square feet. However, on Tuesday, Ingka Group announced that this would be a mixed land use project with focus on retail, entertainment and leisure. Peter Betzel, CEO of IKEA India, said, “We are happy to announce our IKEA store in Gurugram together with Ingka Centres. India is an exciting country for IKEA, and we have a long-term commitment to reach the many people with our omnichannel approach. Delhi-NCR will be one of our biggest and most important markets in India.”An HSVP official said that the authority sold land to IKEA in 2017 and the company has already barricaded it. “Such projects will further attract new anchor companies to set up shops in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ikea-to-build-shopping-centre-in-gurugram-101637694298325.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||SDMC to set up two ‘waste to wonder’ parks at Jangpura and ITO||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday proposed to set up two parks at Jangpura and ITO on the lines of their waste to wonder park at Sarai Kale Khan and a bird and animal hospital in Vasant Kunj.The proposals were a part of the civic body’s budget that was presented by commissioner Gyanesh Bharti on Tuesday. Bharti announced that in order to mark the 75th year of Independence, a plan has been made to develop Bollywood Park and Shahidi Park on the lines of Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh. Upcoming Bharat Darshan Park features 21 replicas of Indian monuments which have been developed using metal scrap.Since the SDMC coffers are already in distress, Bharti said the new projects will be financed by funds from CSR (corporate social responsibility) and on the public-private partnership model. He added that 483 square metre plot has been allocated in Vasant Kunj for the bird and animal hospital. A senior official from the horticulture department said the Bollywood Park in Jangpura will focus on ”the history of the film industry” and the Shahidi Park will showcase themes from India’s freedom movement. “Instead of just using metal scrap like in the waste to wonder park, these parks will use glass, plastic and construction waste to recreate scenes, statues and art installations,” the official said.The civic body has also proposed to set up four centres to address the needs of special children. “These centres will focus on the needs and R&D for projects related to children with special needs. We have also sent the requisition for hiring 386 special educators,” he added. The south corporation is also developing an online learning management system which will co-ordinate online classes, details of students, health tracking, and learning progress.Bharti said tenders for the construction of a parking lots that can accommodate 238 cars in GK-2, 81 vehicles in Amar Colony (Lajpat Nagar) and 225 cars near Punjabi Bagh Cremation Centre will be issued shortly. He added that two new automated parking sites will be developed at Punjabi Bagh Club Road and B-1 block Janakpuri. A total outlay of ₹4,911.75 crore, 26.9% has been reserved for sanitation services. The budget proposes to expand the capacity of plastic waste disposal plant in Dwarka, which has been constructed with the help of UNDP, from existing 5 TPD (tonnes per day) to 50 TDP. A material recovery facility (MRF) with the capacity of 100 TDP will also be set up in Raghubir Nagar area.However, the financial challenges before the corporation and the cash crunch has also led to non-implementation of several announcements from last year’s approved budget which include restarting subsidised meal scheme Atal Aahar Yojana, doorstep collection of property taxes, upgrade of toilet complexes, and addition of new community halls in 49 wards, among other announcements. A senior SDMC official said in order to negotiate around the financial constraints, most of the projects being undertaken currently are based on public private partnership or CSR model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-to-set-up-two-waste-to-wonder-parks-at-jangpura-and-ito-101637694055038.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt calls special assembly session on November 26||The Delhi government has called a special session of the Delhi assembly on Friday morning though the agenda of the session was not revealed.“Sitting of the legislative assembly has been tentatively fixed for November 26. Subject to the exigencies of business, the sitting of the House may be extended. The sitting of the legislative assembly will commence at 11am and will continue until the business fixed for the day is concluded,” said a bulletin issued by the assembly on Tuesday. While leader of opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the “AAP government has shrunk the winter session into one-day special session”, speaker Ram Niwas Goel clarified that the special session of the assembly on Friday is not the winter session. “The winter session is likely to be held in December,” said Goel.The BJP MLAs held a meeting of the Delhi BJP legislature party on Tuesday where they said that as per the rules, the information about the assembly session should be given 15 days in advance and the issues to be raised from the MLAs should be invited.“The AAP government does not want to face the opposition in the House. It is running away from discussing the problems of the people,” said Bidhuri.Meanwhile, the assembly has asked all MLAs to carry the final certificate for Covid-19 vaccination, or otherwise a Covid-19 test report issued not earlier than 48 hours prior to the beginning of the session. The legislators have been asked to wear face masks and practice social distancing compulsorily to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The MLAs have also been requested to carry and display their identity cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-calls-special-assembly-session-on-november-26-101637693995187.html
24-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram gang lures, extorts senior executives; three transgenders held||Police on Monday arrested three transgender persons from DLF Phase 3 for allegedly luring and extorting senior employees of various companies in the National Capital Region after befriending them on social media. Police said that the gang extorted lakhs of rupees from their targets by blackmailing them with intimate pictures or holding them hostage. At least three other members of the gang are yet to be arrested, said police. The suspects, identified as Palak, Simran and Kavvya, who go by their first names, were booked under sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at DLF Phase 3 police station on Monday. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that Palak, who used to send friend requests to the victims, formed the gang earlier this year. “The suspects had read about honey-trap cases, and started targeting men on social media. They made plans to extort money by using different modus operandi,” he said. Rao said Palak used to befriend senior executives from Delhi-NCR through social media, then exchanged numbers and later invited them to a hotel room in Gurugram and recorded their intimate videos. “In some cases, Palak would invite victims and later call other members of the gang and record videos and extort money. In three cases, they had held victims hostage and called their family members to transfer money for their release,” Rao said. According to police, Palak used to scan profiles on different social media platforms, and after shortlisting them would discuss with the other gang members for their next move. The gang had been involved in the crime for the past six months, police said. “Once the suspect was confident that the victims trusted her, she would invite them to hotels or guest houses and her aides suddenly barged inside as per the plan and clicked their pictures and recorded videos in objectionable position,” said Rao. Police said that the gang extorted money from at least nine executives in the last three months after taking them in confidence. In one such instance, Palak had allegedly befriended a 35-year-old Karnal resident, working and living in Noida, and invited him to Gurugram’s DLF Phase 3. “The victim reached a guest house in DLF Phase 3 on Sunday where the suspect had already booked a room. After having drinks together, the victim went to take a shower, and as per the plan, Palak called her two friends who were waiting outside the guest house and opened the doors for them. The victim was shocked to find two more persons and before he could utter a word they held him hostage and extorted money,” said Rao. Police said they got him to transfer ₹34,500 into two of their accounts and threatened him to arrange for more. Police said the victim lodged a complaint on Sunday following which a team was formed. “The mobile numbers of the suspects were placed on surveillance. A raid was conducted at three locations and three members of the gang were arrested from DLF Phase 3 on Monday while they were planning to target another victim,” said Rao. The suspects on Tuesday were produced in court that sent them to 14-day judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-gang-lures-extorts-senior-executives-three-transgenders-held-101637693935145.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Rajghat road redesigned to make it safer for pedestrians||The Delhi government on Tuesday started trials at the redesigned the Rajghat intersection in central Delhi to make it more pedestrian friendly, as part of its project to establish “zero fatality corridors” on accident-prone stretches in the city. According to officials, plastic barriers, spring posts, cones, and other such equipments have been laid around the Rajghat intersection to reduce exposure of vulnerable road users to the traffic, increase walking space for pedestrians and to slow down vehicles passing through the stretch.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said such interventions to reduce accidents and fatalities will be replicated on 11 high-risk stretches across Delhi. “Delhi roads belong to all, as much to pedestrians and cyclists as to motorists, and the Delhi government is committed to making them safer for all users. It was keeping this in mind that we had launched the Delhi road safety policy in 2018. Through these tactical urbanism (TU) trials, earlier at Bhalswa Chowk and now at Rajghat, we aim to develop a comprehensive network of safe roads and junctions across the city. Small interventions like these, which you and I can take up, can effectively drive the behaviour change needed from commuters and the general public, to enable safe road practices in cities,” Gahlot said, while launching the trials at the Rajghat traffic intersection. According to officials, TU trials are “temporary, quick and relatively low-cost interventions” that test urban design, transportation planning and infrastructure changes for improving road safety for all road users, especially the most vulnerable, like pedestrians, cyclists and other non-motorised transport users. The trials will see road space being redistributed to ensure modal equity, road geometry, channelising traffic, reduction of vehicular speeds, and addition of safety infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians.Officials said the project at Rajghat intersection was undertaken in collaboration with the Delhi traffic police and NGOs SaveLife Foundation and Swayam. The work is part of the Delhi government’s “zero fatality corridor” (ZFC) project where it ties up with stakeholders to work on the city’s most accident-prone stretches through interventions that focus on altering motorists’ behaviour and making roads safer for pedestrians and cyclists. Apart from Rajghat, officials have identified 11 more intersections — Mukundpur Chowk, Nirankari Colony/Gopalpur Red Light, Azadpur Chowk, Majnu Ka Tila, Burari Chowk, Sarita Vihar Metro station, Nehru Place, Khel Gaon, Gandhi Vihar Bus Stand and ISBT Kashmiri Gate -- for the same project.Piyush Tewari, CEO of SaveLife foundation, told HT that the Bhalswa zero fatality corridor project recorded a 100% reduction in road crash deaths by limiting pedestrian exposure.Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said since 2016, the Rajghat intersection and Rajghat bus depot collectively witnessed 47 crashes,13 fatalities and 51 injuries. “These trials are aimed at making the intersection safe for all in an inclusive, cheap and quick manner. The end goal of these trials is to transform high fatality intersections into high safety intersections,” he said. Tewari said that they have followed a six-point intervention strategy to redesign the Rajghat junction. “All the elements focus on either reducing the speed, or minimising conflict. Through these interventions we have managed to reduce the pedestrian exposure distance by about 50% and pedestrian exposure time by 30%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-rajghat-road-redesigned-to-make-it-safer-for-pedestrians-101637693815114.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||‘Are you there just for salary?’: Delhi HC slams civic staff on dengue cases||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the civic authorities for the surge in cases of dengue in the city, saying that all its earlier orders on the functioning of the municipal employees have “fallen on deaf ears”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, hearing a plea by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) against Delhi government’s decision seeking retrospective recovery of grants-in-aid from municipal bodies, said that the civic body employees should not ask for salaries if they do not discharge their duties.The bench said, “There is so much dengue. You are doing nothing. You only want salaries. What do you do with these salaries and amounts? On the ground, is there something happening?”“How can it be that dengue is increasing every year? Is it not a municipal function? We are in pain to understand what is happening? Is it some rocket science that after monsoon there will be mosquitoes, dengue? It’s a pattern for the last 15 to 20 years,” the bench said, pulling up the SDMC counsel.Delhi added over 1,800 dengue cases during the week ending on November 20, taking this year’s tally past the 7,000-mark, according to the weekly report released by the city’s municipal corporations on Monday.The city has reported 7,128 dengue cases so far, and nine deaths, according to the weekly data.The court noted that the corporations are not “understaffed” and rather “have excess employees”.“Is it that the municipality has given up everything and it’s only to collect taxes and disburse salaries? How do they expect salaries if they don’t do work... Obviously your mosquito checkers, breeders are doing nothing. They are not going to the ground. Probably they are just marking their attendance and you are paying them...,” bench observed.The court said that it has been “extremely patient”, noting that it ensured salaries are paid every time the issue came up. “But it can’t be that there is no work happening and it’s only salaries,” the bench said.The court asked the chairpersons of the three civic bodies to hold a joint meeting and apprise it about the steps being taken to control mosquito breeding.The court clarified that it would not exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in favour of the petitioner corporation and its employees if “the (dengue)situation on the ground does not improve”.The court also noted that it had earlier raised the issue of geo-tagging and marking of biometric attendance of employees. “We direct the petitioner to place on record what steps have been taken in this regard. This information should be provided in the affidavit to be filed,” the bench said.The matter would be heard on December 1.A senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation official, which is the nodal agency for vector borne disease data collection, said the matter is sub-judice, and that all the directions of the court will be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/are-you-there-just-for-salary-delhi-hc-slams-civic-staff-on-dengue-cases-101637693755270.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Transgender in police custody for killing friend who stole clients||PUNE: A transgender woman engaged in prostitution was remanded to five days in the custody of Pune rural police for murdering a fellow transsexual for allegedly stealing her clients, which affected both their incomes from the flesh trade. The deceased was identified as Magardhwaj alias Bunty Maruti Bandewad, 26, a resident of Theur in Haveli, Pune, while the accused was identified as Kajal alias Keshav Umaji Chavan, 26, also a resident of Theur and a native of Georai, Beed, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased’s elder brother, Pandurang Maruti Bandewad, 28, a teacher at a government school in Pune. The complainant told the police that Bunty Maruti Bandewad used to solicit clients along with the accused, but the accused was upset over Bunty Maruti Bandewad stealing her clients which led to loss of income for her. Assistant police inspector Keshav Vable of Yavat police station who is investigating the case said, “The deceased was a native of Ahmedpur in Latur and nobody there knew about her being a transwoman. She lived as a man in Latur and as a woman in Theur, Pune. The body was found on the forest department’s land which is dense in vegetation. Thereafter, we checked the CCTV and found some known associates and questioned around 50 transgender people, out of which Kajal was the closest to the deceased and had marks of physical violence.”Kajal was arrested and upon interrogation, told the police about her involvement in the murder. She has been kept in the women’s lock-up for five days, according to the police. A case has been registered against her under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Yavat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/transgender-in-police-custody-for-killing-friend-who-stole-clients-101637693697668.html
24-11-2021||Other||BJP takes out Kisan tractor rally in UP’s Chandauli to connect with farmers||The BJP took out a kisan tractor rally on Tuesday from Naveen Krishi Mandi in Chandauli to familiarise farmers with the various schemes started by the Centre for them.Kashi region BJP Kisan Morcha general secretary Jainath Mishra led the rally in which over 500 farmers on board 150 tractors participated. The rally concluded with a meeting.Addressing the farmers, Mishra said that the state BJP government had effectively implemented all schemes, including those of the agriculture sector and those meant for farmers, to ensure their benefits reach the farmers.Mishra said that the government ensured power connections of tube wells of farmers are not disconnected owing to outstanding electricity bills. In addition, schemes like irrigation to every field were started so that all the fields got irrigated.Mishra claimed that no farmer has to get in queue for the fertilizers. He alleged that the opposition parties are spreading lies to create confusion. The BJP kisan wing workers are exposing the opposition parties’ lies by telling the farmers truth and various schemes started by the BJP governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-takes-out-kisan-tractor-rally-in-up-s-chandauli-to-connect-with-farmers-101637693637385.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Union minister Gadkari inaugurates vehicle scrapping, recycling unit in Noida||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday inaugurated the first vehicle scrapping and recycling unit in the country at Noida’s Sector 80. The facility, developed by Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu India Private Limited (MSTI), is a joint venture of Maruti Suzuki and Toyota Tsusho group. Spread over 10,993 square metres, the facility has a capacity to scrap and recycle over 2,000 end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) in a month, which translates to 24,000 vehicles annually. One vehicle can be recycled in 200 minutes. Built with an investment of over ₹44 crore, the facility uses modern and technologically advanced machines to dismantle the vehicles and produces zero discharge. Gautam Budh Nagar has over one lakh old diesel and petrol vehicles. Gadkari said studies show that the pollution generated by one old vehicle is equal to 15 new vehicles. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a net zero emission by 2070, in context of the recently concluded Climate Change Conference (COP 26) summit in Glasgow, Scotland. This scrapping and recycling facility is in the same direction. The facility will help generate employment and increase sale of new vehicles,” he said. The minister said the auto sector has an annual turnover of ₹7.5 lakh crore. “The target is to take it to ₹15 lakh crore in next five years,” he said. Gadkari also said the government is considering a proposal to provide more tax-related concessions on vehicles which are purchased after scrapping old vehicles. He said such scrapping and recycling facilities will be developed in each district. Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director & CEO Maruti Suzuki, and chairman, MSTI, said the facility is environment friendly for dismantling ELVs. “This is our first facility in India. This is a big and commendable step towards clean air and environment. Aligning with the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, all the equipment being used at the facility is manufactured in India,” he said. Officials said an ELV owner needs to book a slot by visiting the website – www.msti.co.in or call 18004193530. The company representative will visit the vehicle owner’s place and complete the documentation, and evaluate the ELV’s net worth. The representative will then bring the ELV at the recycling facility and dismantle the vehicle. When HT paid a visit to the facility, it observed that the recycling takes places in nine phases. The vehicles’ tyres, CNG kits, battery, fuel tank, engine, windshield, doors, bonnet, bumper, headlights, seats, steering, dashboard, floor mat, roofing and interior parts are systematically removed at different stations. Finally, the vehicle’s frame is lifted by a crane and put inside the recycling machine which dismantles it and produces a square shaped recycled block. MSTI officials said vehicle owners get a certificate of recycling, which can be used for de-registering their old vehicle at the regional transport office. The company also makes online payment of the vehicle’s net worth to the owner. The scrap recovered is sold to authorised recyclers. The company aims to expand this service in other parts of the country. Satoshi Suzuki, ambassador of Japan to India, also attended the programme and appreciated the initiative. He said Japan will further strengthen ties with India in business and other activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/union-minister-gadkari-inaugurates-vehicle-scrapping-recycling-unit-in-noida-101637693636180.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to take a call on reopening schools today||As air pollution levels in Delhi on Tuesday improved to settle in the ‘poor’ zone with the city recording an average AQI of 290 -- the best since November 1, the Delhi government is set to take a call on reopening of schools on Wednesday.Schools in the national capital were ordered shut by the Delhi government on November 13 in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution, and the directorate of education on Sunday said that they will stay closed till further orders.School administrators and experts said they the notion that keeping children at home will reduce exposure to pollutants was not rooted in science, and added that continued closure of schools may lead to major learning gaps. In-person classes had barely resumed after a nearly 20-month pandemic shutdown, when they were again closed due to rising air pollution.A group of 140 parents in the national capital has written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking his intervention for reopening of schools, PTI reported.In the letter, the parents have said that schools were already closed due to Covid-19, and while construction and other activities have been allowed in view of improvement in air quality, “children and their education be given equal attention, in fact greater, priority”.Officials at the India Meteorological Department said winds gusting up to 20 kmph on Sunday and 25 kmph on Monday led to a marked improvement in the air quality and visibility.The Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitor Safar said transport-level winds are likely to slow down and change direction from northwest to south-southeast on Wednesday leading to further improvement in the air quality, but within the “poor” category.According to the Safar forecast, local surface wind speed will be relatively low for the next three days but the air quality is likely to be within the poor category for the next three days. Surface winds are likely to pick up from November 27, it said.Schools said they were waiting for a go-ahead on the resumption of in-person classes, even as they stressed on the fact that frequent closures exacerbated hesitancy among parents who had come to believe that schools might close down again on account of inclement weather in the next few weeks.Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) and the principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, said closure of schools tightened timetables, which could be eased had schools been allowed to reopen as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-take-a-call-on-reopening-schools-today-101637693575101.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Even Ramayana didn’t last 14 yrs, remarks Delhi HC on Chandni Chowk plea||Expressing concerns over the long drawn out hearings in the case related to the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk — the case is being heard since 2007 — the Delhi high court on Tuesday remarked that even the epic Ramayana did not last for more than 14 years.“This petition has been going on since 2007… Even the Ramayana did not last for more than 14 years. The “vanvas (exile)” should be over by now. What is going on?” a bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani saidThe court’s remarks came while hearing an application filed in the pending petition by NGO, Manushi Sangathan, on the issue of redevelopment of Chandni Chowk and creation of lanes for non-motorised vehicles (NMV).The present application was filed by the service department of the Delhi government seeking discharge of nodal officer Renu Sharma from the case as she has been transferred to Mizoram as chief secretary. The court adjourned proceedings on the application at the request of the counsel, and listed it for further hearing to January 13.The counsel submitted that as per the court’s earlier order, nodal officer Sharma shall not be transferred without its prior permission.In the main matter, the court had earlier passed a slew of directions to decongest the area by ordering registration of cycle rickshaws plying there, construction of a parking lot at Gandhi Maidan for private vehicles, a bus depot at Dangal Maidan near Old Delhi Railway station, and the creation of dedicated NMV lanes.All these projects are part of the main plan to redevelop Chandni Chowk, a project that is being actively monitored by the high court. Advocate Indira Unninayar, representing the petitioner NGO, submitted that the case has been going on for the last 14 years and repeated orders have been passed, reflecting “tardiness, reluctance and non-compliances of the authorities or government agencies” with several cases of contempt.On September 12, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the redeveloped Chandni Chowk market. In the project, the 1.3km-long stretch of the main Chandni Chowk Road, from Lal Qila to Fatehpuri Masjid, has been improved and beautified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/even-ramayana-didn-t-last-14-yrs-remarks-delhi-hc-on-chandni-chowk-plea-101637693517124.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Bikers throw petrol bomb at office of NCP MLA’s brother, probe underway||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police are on the lookout for two persons on a bike for allegedly throwing a petrol bomb on the office of a politician’s brother Tuesday afternoon. The office in question is that of Shankar Jagtap, brother of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA, Laxman Jagtap. It is located at Srishti chowk in the Pimple Gurav area under the jurisdiction of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Senior police inspector Sunil Tonpe of Sangvi police station said, “The office belongs to the brother of the politician. We are not sure if it was a politically motivated attack. That is a part of the investigation and we cannot say anything just yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bikers-throw-petrol-bomb-at-office-of-ncp-mla-s-brother-probe-underway-101637693515538.html
24-11-2021||Kolkata||TMC minority cell leader shot dead near home; BJP says ‘jungle raj in Bengal’||KOLKATA: Wazul Khan, secretary of the minority cell of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the Nazirganj area of Bengal’s Howrah district was shot dead near his home on Monday night, police said. Khan, who was popular in the area according to local people, was sitting outside his home when some people shot him from very close range, a district police officer said on condition of anonymity. Khan was rushed to a private hospital in Howrah where doctors declared him dead on arrival.“Four people have been arrested till Tuesday afternoon. Khan’s family named some suspects,” the police officer said.Wazul Khan is the TMC’s third Muslim leader killed in three days.Muharram Sheikh, a TMC youth wing leader at Canning in South 24 Parganas district, was murdered near his home on Saturday night. Police arrested seven suspects of whom four were named by Sheikh’s family. “The assailants escaped in an auto-rickshaw and the murder was caught on a security camera,” said a district police officer who did not want to be named.In the second incident, Muhammad Sulaiman, a TMC leader in the Rajgunj area of Jalpiguri district in north Bengal was shot from close range in the head by two motorcycle-borne men on Sunday night. He was rushed to a local hospital and later shifted to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri where he died on Tuesday morning.“Sulaiman was shot when he was standing near a lottery ticket stall. The shopkeeper also suffered some injuries. An investigation is on,” said a police officer from Jalpaiguri.After the last murder in Howrah district, the victim’s brother, Guddu Khan, told the media that Khan received several threats. Though Guddu Khan joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the March-April assembly polls, police officers said they did not find any evidence of inter-party rivalry in the crime. Some local TMC leaders, however, accused the BJP but the saffron camp denied the allegation.Manimohan Bhattacharya, the newly-appointed convenor of the BJP’s Howrah unit said, “Our party knows nothing about this. The crime was committed by criminals who should be arrested immediately.”After the back-to-back murders, the state BJP alleged that rule of law has been replaced by the rule of the jungle during the TMC regime.“The murders are proof of lawlessness in the state. Mamata Banerjee has established jungle raj,” said BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh.The ruling party refused to attach any importance to Ghosh’s allegation. “He (Ghosh) is so insignificant in his own party that he was removed from the post of state president two months ago. Why should we react to what Ghosh says?” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. The BJP got an opportunity to hit back at the TMC when two rival groups of the ruling party clashed with bombs and guns at Dubrajpur in Birbhum district on Tuesday over control of a football field. Six people were injured and eight villagers were detained. Videos shot by the villagers, showing bombs going off and a man firing a pistol, went viral on social media.“The clash started over a land dispute. Eight people have been detained and two firearms seized along with some ammunition,” Birbhum’s superintendent of police, Nagendra Nath Tripathi, told the media. TMC’s Bhirbhum district president Anubrata Mondal did not deny that his party’s supporters attacked each other. “Both sides support the TMC but the clash has nothing to do with politics. The dispute over control this football field has been going on since 2009,” Mondal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-minority-cell-leader-shot-dead-near-home-bjp-says-jungle-raj-in-bengal-101637693398436.html
24-11-2021||Other||Odisha decides to regularise encroachment of govt land worth ₹4,000 cr||In a major sop to around 2,000 high schools and colleges, the Odisha cabinet on Tuesday decided to regularise encroachment of all such institutions on government lands worth ₹4,000 crore.The Cabinet which met on Tuesday decided that the occupation of 1893 acres of government land by 1,274 high schools, 51 government colleges and 644 aided colleges would be regularised. The total value of the land would be ₹4,000 crore.Due to the inability of such institutions to pay the dues like premium, incidental charges, annual ground rent, cess, encroachment fees with penalty, interest, the land could not be recorded in the name of institutions.The Cabinet decided all land, irrespective of the extent of area, under the occupation of standalone government degree colleges (including autonomous and non-autonomous government colleges) and standalone government higher secondary schools will be recorded in the name of the higher education department and school and mass education department respectively.In the case of aided degree colleges having autonomous status and non-autonomous aided degree colleges and aided higher secondary schools, land up to 10 acres in urban areas and 15 acres in rural areas would be recorded in the name of the higher education department and school and mass education department respectively.The land to be settled with the educational institutions should be leasable, non-forest, not in DLC list, un-objectionable, free from encroachment by anyone other than the said educational institutions, free from any encumbrances and should not be having any mineral reserve.On settlement of such land, all previous encroachment cases booked by revenue authorities would be dropped and a token amount of Re 1 per acre per year towards assessment and penalty at Rs10 per acre per year may be charged. Interest on the arrear amount would be waived out. The cut-off date for consideration of occupation of government land by an institution would be January 1, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-decides-to-regularise-encroachment-of-govt-land-worth-rs-4000-cr-101637693397405.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Two men, who snatched cash bag from groom’s father, held after shootout in Noida||Two persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly snatching a bag containing ₹74,000 from the groom’s father during a wedding in Noida Sector 57 on Friday night. The suspects were identified as Sonu alias Sant Kumar, 23, and Rahul Kashyap, 26, residents of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the incident took place on the night of November 19 in Khoda Colony. “The marriage procession had come from Badarpur in Delhi. The groom’s father Kripa Shankar was carrying a bag of cash. He was also throwing some notes in the air during the procession at Khoda T-Point in Sector 57. The two suspects snatched Shankar’s bag and fled the spot,” he said. A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (loot) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 58 police station. The police identified the two suspects involved in the crime using footage from CCTV cameras. On Tuesday, police received information about the suspects’ movement on a motorcycle in Noida Sector 57. “A police team reached the spot and signalled them to stop for checking. However, the suspects opened fire at the police team and tried to escape,” Singh said. The police returned fire, in which Sonu got injured in the left leg. The police team immediately overpowered and arrested him. The police recovered two countrymade guns, three live cartridges, one stolen motorcycle without a registration number plate, two mobile phones and ₹52,250 from his possession. The second accomplice Kashyap managed to escape from the spot. However, the police team later arrested him from the neighbourhood. Police said that in 2017, Sonu allegedly attacked a security guard with a knife in Sector 24 police station area and snatched his mobile phone. In 2019, he and his accomplices kidnapped a taxi driver and murdered him. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-men-who-snatched-cash-bag-from-groom-s-father-held-after-shootout-in-noida-101637693395071.html
24-11-2021||Other||Gurugram civic body to revive six-acre pond in Subhash Nagar||In a bid to revive a six-acre pond in Subhash Nagar near Sector 16, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to clean and excavate the water body from next month, said officials on Tuesday. Under the Gurujal, an integrated water management initiative of the district administration, the water body in Subhash Nagar will be restored as a percolation pond which will serve as a catchment area for run-off rainwater and help groundwater recharge, the officials said. Small ponds located in low-lying areas that store run-off rainwater and aid groundwater recharge are known as percolation ponds.The move is also expected to mitigate waterlogging-related issues on Old Railway Road and New Railway Road as the MCG aims to channel rainwater from these stretches towards the water body after it is revived. According to representatives of Gurujal, currently, the six-acre water body has been reduced to four acres due to encroachment. Further, it serves as a spot for garbage dumping and is filled with sewage from nearby households which has resulted in heavy silt deposition and reduced the pond’s original depth from four metres to 2.5 metres, they said. In 2019, MCG had observed that sewage from around 110 households was discharged into the pond through a pipeline. “The MCG has disconnected the main sewerage line and provided an alternative line for it. Now, sewage from only around a dozen households located in the immediate vicinity is being discharged at the pond. We are in the process of placing septic tanks to tackle the issue,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The MCG had originally planned to clean the pond in early 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the plan was suspended, the officials said. At that time, Gurujal had also proposed to landscape the area near the pond with native vegetation, open-air theatres, open-air library, shaded pathways, sitting areas, recreational areas, government-sanctioned shops, walkways, fountains, among other amenities for tourism purposes.However, the MCG has declined this proposal and instead is focusing on reviving the water body. For this purpose, it has floated a ₹24.86 lakh detail notice inviting tender for the project.“We will be reviving the pond in a phased manner. The first step is to desilt it. Then we will build a boundary wall around it, and subsequently, plant native vegetation. We will also be building a pedestrian track around the pond,” said Subhash Yadav. district forest officer and nodal officer of the environment and sustainability wing of the MCG.A representative of Gurujal said, “The first step is to remove all unwanted silt and other materials from the bed of the pond. The next step is to clear out all types of liquid from the water body and then fill it with recycled or treated water and increase its percolation rate. Until we get a fresh layer of soil, we will continue to desilt and excavate the pond to reach its original depth.”Gurujal representatives said about the pond that legend has it that Bheem in Mahabharata had halted there to quench his thirst.Experts said that diminishing surface and sub-surface water availability has affected the local ecosystem. “Managed aquifer recharge in the NCR can act as water banking, wherein water is stored below the ground for use later on. This offers environmental, health, and economic benefits,” said Dr Indu K Murthy, principal research scientist at the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-civic-body-to-revive-six-acre-pond-in-subhash-nagar-101637693335860.html
24-11-2021||Other||Three booked for trying to extort ₹15 lakh from realtor in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police booked three persons for attempting to extort ₹15 lakh from a Pune realtor, Yuvraj Dhamale. A case in the matter has been registered at Kondhwa police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Senior police inspector Sardar Patil of Kondhwa police station said, “We have not yet arrested anyone in the case. The three accused live in the building built by Dhamale, and a case was registered yesterday (Monday) based on his complaint.”The three accused are home-owners in a project that Dhamale’s company recently concluded in Kondhwa. The home-owners called for a meeting after Dhamale failed to complete and make available to the society members common building amenities. Dhamale, who is the son-in-law of former BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Kakade, told the police that the men threatened to run him over with a vehicle if he failed to pay them ₹15 lakh for not providing the amenities that they were promised. The trio allegedly also threatened Dhamale with false cases if he failed to deliver on the promised services.The police have not yet arrested the three accused home-owners in Dhamale’s project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-booked-for-trying-to-extort-15-lakh-from-realtor-in-pune-101637693334389.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Case against Seva Vikas Coop bank for duping customer of Rs25 lakh||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked officials of a cooperative bank in Chinchwad for allegedly duping a customer of Rs25 lakh in November. The complainant in the case claimed that the bank failed to deposit the money from 13 fixed deposits (FDs) and one savings account, according to the police.The complainant claimed that he and his family members had multiple FDs and one savings account in the bank identified as Seva Vikas Cooperative Bank Limited. The complainant had asked the bank officials multiple times to release funds from all investments in the bank. The complainant’s family had invested an estimated Rs25,03,223 according to the police. Despite repeated requests however, the bank did not release the funds.Seva Vikas Cooperative Bank Limited has multiple cases registered against it all over Pimpri-Chinchwad. There are at least 14 other cases registered against the bank and its officials for various reasons, including loan fraud. The bank chairman, director, and around 25 of its officials are facing charges for duping customers of nearly Rs429.57 crore, according to the police.In the latest case, Pimpri-Chinchwad police chief Krishna Prakash formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had appointed an administrator for the bank after four of its directors were booked in multiple cases. A case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, 1999, has been registered at Nigdi police station. Assistant police inspector Amol Korde of Nigdi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-seva-vikas-coop-bank-for-duping-customer-of-rs25-lakh-101637693276810.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Short of funds, Delhi’s south civic body looks to hike annual property tax||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday proposed a hike in the annual tax levied on residential and commercial categories across the city in a desperate bid to ramp up revenues ahead of the crucial civic elections that are due in April next year.To be sure, property tax rates proposed by successive commissioners have not been cleared by the elected wing (the councillors) in the past 10 years.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti proposed the tax hike in the budget proposals for 2022-23. The budget was advanced this year in view of the upcoming elections, civic officials said, and added that the SDMC wanted to announce the plans for the next financial years before the model code of conduct for the civic polls kicks in. Usually, the three civic bodies present their budget by the second week of December.Facing a crippling financial crunch, the three civic bodies in Delhi that administer almost an equal area and a range of services as the state government have struggled to implement new projects and even pay salaries to their staff leading to strikes over the last at least five years. In the build-up to the 2022 municipal elections, the BJP, which has been ruling the three civic bodies for the past 15 years, has come under severe attack from the opposition which has blamed the financial mess on the mismanagement and rampant corruption in the civic bodies.Bharti made it clear on Tuesday that if the tax hikes are not cleared by the SDMC House, it will be “very difficult” to take up any new projects. “Even today, out of whatever revenue we are earning, more than 90% is being used just to pay the salaries of employees, and rest is being spent on essential sanitation work,” the commissioner said.A senior SDMC official said if the hike in tax rates is approved, it will help increase the revenue by 15%.When the MCD was trifurcated in 2012, the South DMC was the only three civic bodies that had a surplus. Over the years, as revenue dried up, the civic body reported the first deficit of ₹398 crore in 2019-20. This went up to ₹1,001 crore in 2020-21 budget, the data from SDMC finance department shows.Bharti said “minor tax increase” is necessary to achieve the goal of enhanced tax collection. He explained that unlike the last year, this time there will only be two property tax slabs of 12% and 14%. He said properties under categories A such as Sundar Nagar and Vasant , B (Greater Kailash and Defence Colony), D (Janakpuri, Rajouri Garden and E (Paharganj and Pandav Nagar)are proposed to pay tax at the rate of 14%, and the remaining categories of F and G will be taxed at the rate of 12%.Currently, there are three slabs of property tax. Properties under A-B category pay 12% tax, those under C-E 11% and F-H category 7%. The colonies are categorised from A to G based on state of infrastructure and amenities in the area. The circle rates and unit area value of each category is fixed according to the category, and it forms an important factor in tax calculation.Among commercial properties, the commissioner has proposed a 5% hike in the tax rates for “special category property” such as guest houses and lodges.Bharti added that the corporation plans to collect ₹1,445 crore in property taxes in the next financial year.He has also proposed to reduce the existing rebates on early filing of taxes from 15% to 10%; and for CGHS (co-operative group housing) properties from 20% to 10%. Bharti argued that the 15% rebate on early filing was created when the interest rates in banks were high and the rates have now substantially decreased. He added that CGHS rebate was meant to encourage societies to file taxes collectively but that has never been implemented. The 1% education cess remained unchanged in the budgetary proposals.The commissioner has also pushed for 20% taxation on commercial properties of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). “The DMRC is currently paying a service charge and several rounds of meeting have been held to resolve the matter. We will charge a normal 20% property tax rate on commercial properties except the operational properties such as station area etc,” Bharti said.Data from the SDMC finance department shows that the corporation has been running at an annual deficit since fiscal 2019-20. The SDMC had a surplus of ₹663 crore in 2016-17, ₹104crore surplus in 2017-18, and ₹113.63 crore surplus in 2018-19. The deficit of ₹398 crore was registered in 2019-20, and that rose to ₹1001 crore during the pandemic-affected revenue collections of 2020-21.A municipal official said both the internal revenue from sources have gone down due to the pandemic impact on businesses while the grant from the government has also decreased. “Our buffer surplus funds have been exhausted due to the pandemic and if a third wave strikes, we won’t be able to pay salaries,” the official said, asking not to be named.Leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said commissioners propose tax hikes every year and just like every year the elected councillors will decline to accept the proposal. “The three categories will continue to exist. The rates will be the same. There will be no hike. We should focus on increasing the number of properties from which tax is collected instead of increasing the rates,” Sehrawat said.Aam Aadmi Party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the budget lacks vision, and added that the AAP will give immediate relief from tax hike as soon as it comes to power in the civic bodies. “The Budget should have presented a vision on how to improve the economic activities in Delhi, specially after the pandemic. The tax rate was never this high before. MCD has failed the people of Delhi in so many areas,” Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/short-of-funds-delhi-s-south-civic-body-looks-to-hike-annual-property-tax-101637693275156.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Two men arrested for spate of thefts from closed flats in Greater Noida||Police on Tuesday arrested two men allegedly involved in a series of thefts in different flats located in housing societies of Greater Noida. The two were arrested from Nat Ki Madhaiya village in Beta 2 police station area.The suspects were identified as Shahnewaz (40), a resident of Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr, and Imran Ali (38), a resident of Ghaziabad. Police have recovered gold and silver jewellery worth ₹20 lakh, ₹1 lakh in cash, two countrymade carbines, one pistol, one countrymade gun, 74 cartridges, 24 damaged locks, some door handles, a drill machine, two LEDs, and six set-up boxes from the suspects. Amit Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said Shahnewaz is a history-sheeter from Bulandshahr. “Shahnewaz and his accomplices used to wear good clothes to project themselves as locals. They sometimes conducted a recce of certain housing societies and identified a few residents. To gain easy access to the housing societies, they identified themselves as visitors of residents at the society gates and provided fake details to the security guards,”said the DCP. Police said the suspects used to steal valuables from flats, which stayed locked for some time. In some cases, they also opened fire at the security guards if they resisted their burglary attempt. Police said they recovered a gun and some cartridges from the suspects at the time of their arrest. The suspects used to sell the stolen valuables to a goldsmith identified as Kailash Verma in Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr. “During interrogation, Shahnewaz revealed he bought a bungalow in Sikandrabad recently using the stolen money,” said the DCP. The suspects got the illegal weapons from a person named Iqbal, a resident of Bulandshahr.Police said Shahnewaz was wanted in 40 cases while Ali had 11 criminal cases registered against him. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have launched a search to arrest other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-men-arrested-for-spate-of-thefts-from-closed-flats-in-greater-noida-101637693096417.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport to be net zero carbon emitter by 2030, says operator DIAL||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Tuesday announced that it would become a “net zero carbon emission airport” by the year 2030 —well ahead of the 2050 deadline set by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) — the airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), has announced.The announcement was part of a video which was displayed by the Airport Council International (ACI) during the COP-26, the United Nations summit on climate change held recently in Glasgow, UK.Net zero emissions mean that all man-​made greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide, are removed from the atmosphere through reduction measures to tackle global warming.While the airport is already utilising renewable energy programmes such as solar rooftop panels, it has also developed green infrastructure and multiple passenger connectivity networks. The airport also has a water and waste treatment plant, along with energy efficient lighting systems, the DIAL chief operating officer Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said.To add to these measures, the airport operator recently adopted electric vehicles and a TaxiBot, which is a semi-automatic robot that helps in taxiing an aircraft, without the aircraft having to be turned on, thereby reducing carbon emissions. TaxiBot was introduced in 2019, making Delhi airport the first one in the country to do so.The airport said TaxiBot has resulted in a significant reduction in turbine fuel consumption for ground movement. “At Delhi airport, we are on a strong environment progress journey and we are confident of becoming a “net zero carbon emission” airport by 2030, in line with the airport carbon accreditation guidelines. Towards this direction, we have initiated various environmentally sustainable programmes, such as the introduction of TaxiBot and the adoption of electric vehicles,” Jaipuriar said, adding that the airport achieved a level 4+ accreditation last year after getting a “carbon neutral” status in 2016.Carbon neutral refers to a policy of not increasing carbon emissions and of achieving carbon reduction through offsets. “We will continue to develop and be the best in class infrastructure and provide services using innovative and sustainable technologies.” the DIAL DEO said.India is currently the world’s third biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, after the United States and China. Speaking at the COP26 summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the country would make one billion-tonne reduction in projected emissions from now until 2030. Modi also said India’s emissions intensity, or emissions per unit GDP, will be reduced by at least 45% by 2030 from the 2005 levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-to-be-net-zero-carbon-emitter-by-2030-says-operator-dial-101637693095312.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi north civic body’s house meet suspended after ruckus||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation House meeting on Tuesday descended into chaos and was suspended after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors accused the civic body of not giving timely salary to over 700 employees of the corporation, including teachers and doctors, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors tried to question the Delhi government’s new liquor policy.North corporation mayor Raja Iqbal condemned the ruckus and said the opposition parties are “only interested in disrupting the house”. Refuting BJP’s allegations, Vikas Goel, leader of the opposition in the north civic body, said he was manhandled for supporting the civic body employees. “I was first manhandled by the guards at the entry point for carrying pamphlets in support of the employees who have not got their salaries for the last three months. Then, the BJP councillors were carrying liquor bottles in their hands. If they have any reservation about the liquor policy of the Delhi government, they don’t have any right to start a scuffle and misbehave with our women councillors. Their leaders use muscle power to create fear when anybody questions them,” he alleged. Congress councillor and former leader of the opposition, Mukesh Goyal, accused the BJP of raising non-issues. “It (the house meeting) was scheduled to discuss vector-borne diseases and pending salaries of employees. But instead, they were raising slogans against the new excise policy. To conceal their failures, the BJP councillors always try to create a ruckus, to get the house suspended,” he said. Mayor Iqbal said the BJp is considering filing a complaint. “The behaviour of the AAP councillors is condemnable. They don’t like to come forward for a healthy discussion on issues of development. We have called an urgent meeting of our party councillors to determine the course of action against AAP councillors. If a majority of them agrees to lodge criminal cases against AAP councillors, we’ll do that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-north-civic-body-s-house-meet-suspended-after-ruckus-101637692855192.html
24-11-2021||Other||Allahabad HC ‘sangharsh samiti’ to plan stir against minister’s statement||The Elders’ Committee of the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) formed a ‘Sangharsh Samiti’, on Monday, to plan the form of agitation to protest the recent statement of the Union law minister regarding creation of a bench of the Allahabad high court in Agra. They termed it “childish, politically motivated and a fabulous statement”.Recently, the Union law minister, Kiren Rijiju, while speaking at an event in Agra, had said that the Central government was examining the feasibility of setting up a bench of the Allahabad high court in Agra for the benefit of lawyers and litigants of western Uttar Pradesh.The Elders’ Committee, which at present is heading the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA), in a press release on Monday, termed the statement of union law minister as politically motivated adding, “As and when the elections come, such misleading statements are issued by politicians at the helm of affairs, which is nothing but a political stunt to gain undue advantage of voters from a particular district.”Further, it is an attempt to create differences between the Bar of Agra and Meerut district, which had been fighting since long for the creation of a bench in Meerut.Taking serious exception to the minister’s statement, the committee said, “The Union law minister is supposed to know that without the concurrence of chief justice of the high court, Allahabad, no such proposal can be aired. The person who is holding the post of Union law minister, is supposed to know this much of legal position,” the release further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-sangharsh-samiti-to-plan-stir-against-minister-s-statement-101637692735136.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: CAQM meets with states to review compliance of directives||The Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) held a meeting on Tuesday to review the pollution control measures implemented by the NCR states over the past seven days, since the body issued a detailed set of restrictions, including a ban on construction activities and closure of schools. No new measures or curbs have been directed by the commission, said senior officials who participated in the meeting. A senior official who attended the meeting said it was convened by the CAQM to take stock of the compliance of the pollution control directions ordered on November 16. “The CAQM will submit the status report before the Supreme Court on Wednesday based on the action taken reports from all states. No additional directions were issued on Tuesday,” said the official, asking not to be named. A Union environment ministry official said after assessing the current measures taken by the NCR states, fresh directions will be issued by the commission on November 24-25. “Fresh directions will be issued based on weather and air quality forecasts and the action taken by states. Directions will be announced on November 24-25,” the ministry official said, also asking not to be named. The Delhi government, however, has extended the ban on the entry of trucks, except those carrying essential items, into the city and continued to allow officials of the Delhi government and affiliated offices to work from home till November 26. The government also issued orders that schools will remain closed in the national capital until “further orders”. The construction ban alone was lifted on November 22. Senior officials from Delhi’s environment department said a review of the restrictions will be conducted on November 24. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to the “poor” category on Tuesday, for the first time since November 1, when the 4pm average air quality index (AQI) was 281. On Tuesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings, Delhi’s AQI was 290, largely owing to swift wind that dispersed pollutants. On Monday, Delhi’s AQI was 311, in the “very poor” category on the AQI scale. Forecasters, however, said this relief from toxic pollution is only temporary and from November 24, winds will slow down again. Weather forecasts are also not indicating any drastic fall in temperature. “Wind speeds will gradually slow down and because of that, pollution levels will also rise slightly. Temperatures are also likely to remain in the same range,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, taken as representative of the city, was 26.7 degrees Celsius (°C) and the minimum temperature was 10.3°C, a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-caqm-meets-with-states-to-review-compliance-of-directives-101637692316731.html
24-11-2021||Pune||PMC to start dialysis unit at Meentai Thackeray hospital||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is to start a ten- bed dialysis unit at its Meentai Thackeray hospital under a private-public partnership model. Under this agreement, the PMC would enter into an agreement with an NGO for the next 10 years, wherein services would be provided at a nominal cost. The agency will provide the machinery and the manpower, while the civic body would provide the space, 1,500 square feet, at the hospital. Water and electricity charges will be paid by the civic body.The PMC will enter into a 10-year contract with a private NGO, Global Foundation, to provide dialysis services at a nominal cost of ₹357, including GST, per patient, per dialysis, without consumables. The PMC in its proposal said that Pune city has a large number of diabetic and heart ailments patients which leads to complicated kidney ailments. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at the PMC said, “This is to ensure that even the poor and those who cannot afford dialysis, which is a regular and repeated treatment process, can avail of the service. As of now, the poor are dependent on Sassoon General Hospital which receives more patients than their capacity and so we have decided to start a dedicated dialysis unit at our hospital. This will greatly help citizens who otherwise have to prolong the basic necessity of dialysis which could further lead to complicated ailments in the already vulnerable patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-dialysis-unit-at-meentai-thackeray-hospital-101637692315312.html
24-11-2021||Noida||Garbage fires compound Ghaziabad’s pollution problem, 256 instances this year||For a city reeling under high levels of pollution, solid waste or garbage burning has contributed a fair share to pollution throughout the year with 256 such instances reported till November 20 this year. Officials of the district fire department said the incidents recorded this year are those for which they received complaints and the department intervened. Instances of garbage burning, however, could be higher, he said. According to the official figures of the fire department, there were 392 garbage fires in 2019, 189 in 2020 and 256 till November 20 this year. “The instances of garbage burning were fewer last year due the lockdown and other restrictions that were put in place during the pandemic. The figures indicate only those instances, where complaints were registered with us. There could be many such incidents which go unreported,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer, Ghaziabad. According to official data, the share of garbage fires is about 34.72% of the total 1,129 fire incidents reported in 2019.The share of garbage fires in 2020 was 20.76% with overall 910 fire incidents reported with the fire department. In the current year, officials said, there have been about 1,000 fire incidents till November 20, of which garbage fires make up about 25.6%. “Garbage fires are a major issue concerning the city. Sometimes, the contractors of different agencies, their staff set fire to garbage. In other cases, residents set up fires to get rid of roadside garbage, dry leaves, etc. The shortfall in processing about 600-700 metric tonnes of waste daily is making matters worse for the municipal corporation,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist. “On our part, we have been raising the issue of garbage fires since 2015 and so far, we have intervened in about 200 such incidents, which have mostly occurred near the Raj Nagar Extension and near the floodplains of Hindon river. Many such incidents on roadsides and even in residential localities go unreported,” Sharma added. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said garbage fires cause increase in PM2.5 levels. “On our part, we have already given reminders to different agencies and local bodies to crack down on those engaging in garbage burning and also penalise offenders. There is no assessment on the share of garbage fires in city’s pollution levels but it definitely increases the PM2.5 levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. As regards the shortfall in the waste processing capacity, municipal commissioner M S Tanwar said last week that efforts were on to procure more vehicles. “We are trying to initiate work for our waste to energy plant at Galand and the work is likely to start next year. Further, we are also trying to plug the gap of a shortfall of about 300 vehicles which are to be used for door-to-door collection of solid waste. Of this, 100 vehicles will arrive in next 15 days while we have also sent a proposal to the state administration of sanctioning ₹21 for procuring 224 more vehicles,” Tanwar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/garbage-fires-compound-ghaziabad-s-pollution-problem-256-instances-this-year-101637692014990.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||Noida international airport will be biggest in Asia, says CM Adityanath||Noida international airport will be completed by 2024 and will be the biggest in Asia, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath who was in Jewar on Tuesday to take stock of the preparations being made ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on November 25, for laying the foundation stone of the airport at Ranhera village, along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. Adityanath reached the airport site at 4.30pm in a helicopter, inspected the site in great detail and held a meeting with officials of the Noida International Airport Limited, a special purpose vehicle looking after the development of the airport, the police, district administration, and senior party leaders before leaving the venue. Estimated to cost ₹34,000 crore, the airport has been promised to the people of the region for the past 30-35 years, said Adityanath. “But our government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, since 2017 started working seriously. Now, we are going to lay the foundation stone for this project that will benefit entire UP, particularly Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hapur and other adjoining areas,” said the chief minister. “Noida international airport will be completed as per the scheduled deadline of 2024 and create huge employment opportunities in the state, thereby changing the business dynamics of this region,” said Adityanath while briefing the media after the meeting with the top officials and senior leaders. He said Uttar Pradesh already has airports in Lucknow and Varanasi. “We have also started work at Kushinagar and in Ayodhya. Jewar will be the fifth international airport in the state,” said the CM. Adityanath said they are also developing the Film City near the airport, a defence corridor to boost manufacturing in Aligarh, an electronic city, a dedicated freight corridor and other infrastructure projects are being expedited to boost growth and development in the state. “Since 2017, we are working on 11 new airports to connect at least 80 cities of the state by air. Earlier, only 25 cities were connected by air with the help of two airports. We have fast-tracked infrastructure projects and put the state on the path to development,” he said. The BJP’s brass has also directed local MLAs, members of Parliament and other leaders in Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Aligarh, among other districts, to get in touch with workers to put up a ”grand show” during the airport’s foundation stone laying ceremony on November 25. Adityanath also held a meeting with state civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Nandi, BJP state president Swatanra Dev Singh, president of BJP’s western UP wing Mohit Beniwal and other leaders to discuss the preparations for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/noida-international-airport-will-be-biggest-in-asia-says-cm-adityanath-101637691594891.html
24-11-2021||Delhi||DDA flat allottees seek more time to make payment||Allottees of over 300 flats in Dwarka, part of Delhi Development Authority (DDA)’s housing scheme of January 2021, said Tuesday that the land-owning agency has asked them to make the full payment by January next year, despite the flats still being under construction. The allottees said they wanted the DDA to extend the date of payment by a few months or till the land-owning agency is in a position to hand over flats.The DDA had put 1,353 flats on sale in Dwarka, Jasola and Vasant Kunj in its housing scheme of 2021. The allotment of these 348 middle income group (MIG) category flats in Dwarka was put on hold by the DDA immediately after the draw of lots in March, as the construction work was not complete. The rest were given allotment letters. Some of these allottees were given a payment extension due to curbs during the second wave of the pandemic.Ashish Seghal, an allottee, said, “We have been asked to deposit the money by mid-January next year. After that, we will have to pay a penalty. I visited the site last week and there is a lot of pending work. The sewage treatment plant is yet to be constructed; the park area is yet to be developed; and finishing work is pending, among others.”Allottees have questioned the DDA’s decision to put these flats on sale without finishing the construction work.Arun Aggarwal, another allottee, said, “The DDA is yet to get fire safety clearance for the buildings. Can the agency assure us that we will be able to move into our flats by January-end? Moreover, while other allottees were given an extension to pay the full amount, we have been given just three months. We want the DDA to extend the payment window. We have taken up the matter with the DDA.”Another concern of allottees is the 10% surcharge that DDA has levied on the cost of flats in Dwarka. Aggarwal said, “This surcharge has not been levied on MIG flats in Vasant Kunj. This surcharge is usually for high income group flats. The parameters for all MIG flats should be the same.”When contacted, a senior DDA official aware of the development, said, “We have applied for fire safety clearance and the remaining construction work will be completed soon. We will be handing over flats to allottees in January. So far, we have not given any extension for payment.”Meanwhile, of the 1,353 flats that were put on sale earlier this year, close to 400 have been returned by allottees. The land-owning agency is planning to announce another housing scheme to dispose of the flats returned by allottees of past housing schemes. Close to 15,000 flats will be put on sale again in December, DDA officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-flat-allottees-seek-more-time-to-make-payment-say-units-are-only-being-built-101637691355353.html
24-11-2021||Pune||Swedish delegation looks to colour all sustainable endeavours green||PUNE A Swedish delegation from the embassy of Sweden in New Delhi, the Consulate General of Sweden in Mumbai, the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in India (SCCI), and Business Sweden visited Pune on Tuesday and collectively emphasised sustainability and innovation as the cornerstone of business policy of a country.An ‘Environmental Sustainability Mapping Study’ of 18 Swedish companies was commissioned by the Consulate General of Sweden in Mumbai and the Swedish Chamber of Commerce India (SCCI) in association with Centre for Environmental Research and Education (CERE). The primary aim of the study is to understand how Swedish companies operating in Maharashtra and Gujarat are involved in green transition and to make recommendations to further the agenda. The study was undertaken in partnership with the consulate general of Sweden in Mumbai and the Swedish Chamber of Commerce.Anna Lekvall, Consul General of Sweden in Mumbai said, “The green transition and climate action is a high priority for Sweden and it is encouraging that the local Swedish companies are exhibiting leadership and commitment toward sustainability. We have completed the first-of-its-kind sustainability mapping study of Swedish companies in Maharashtra and Gujarat which will further support and strengthen cooperation going forward. We are very excited about the sustainability project done here in India. In challenging times, Indo-Swedish relations have strengthened ”The study highlighted how Swedish companies in west India have been actively promoting sustainability and demonstrating leadership in environmental stewardship with initiatives such as switching to renewable energy and electric mobility, implementing energy efficiency, investing in green buildings, promoting water conservation and integrating a green transition across value chains. Sara Larsson, head of Swedish Chamber of Commerce in India (SCCI), said, “Working together on environmental sustainability can increase learning, enable local solutions, and ramp up the transition process. As next steps, Team Sweden aims to promote knowledge exchange, capacity building and collaborative approach around environmental sustainability between companies, academia and research institutions.”According to Ambassador Klas Molin, more than half of Sweden’s GDP is through exports. “As far as Sweden’s footprint is concerned, Pune was selected as a manufacturing base early on, encouraged by the government then under Prime Minister Nehru. We are looking at long term co-operation in the field of science and technology in innovation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swedish-delegation-looks-to-colour-all-sustainable-endeavours-green-101637691234886.html
24-11-2021||Lucknow||Don’t try to incite passions over CAA, Yogi warns followers of ‘abba jaan’||KANPUR Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday again used the terms “abba jaan-chacha jaan” as a jibe, threatening strict action against those who incite passion over the Citizenship Amendment act.He targeted AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi, who recently demanded withdrawal of the act, which last year led to widespread protests in several parts of the country. Adityanath called the Hyderabad-based leader, whose party is contesting the coming UP Assembly elections, an agent of the Samajwadi Party.While addressing a meeting in Barabanki on Sunday, Owaisi had demanded that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) should be withdrawn as well after the announcement on the repeal of the agri laws.The CAA is aimed at providing Indian citizenship to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who entered the country on or before 31 December 2014.In September, the chief minister had sparked a row by using the Urdu term for ‘father’, saying that rations distributed by the previous state government went to those who say “abba jaan”.In Kanpur on Tuesday, Adityanath said there used to be riots every “third or fourth day” in Uttar Pradesh earlier, but now UP is known as a riot-free state.“I want to warn those people trying to incite feelings in the name of CAA. I am asking followers of ‘chacha jaan’ (uncle) and ‘abba jaan’ to listen carefully that if attempts are made to vitiate the atmosphere of the state by inciting feelings, the state government will deal with it strictly,” said the chief minister while addressing a convention of polling booth-level BJP leaders here, also attended by party president JP Nadda.“Everyone knows that Owaisi is working as an agent of the Samajwadi Party that wants to incite passions in the state,” he said, adding: “Our government doesn’t protect rioters but runs bulldozers on their chest.”Reacting to Yogi’s statements, Asaduddin Owaisi, in a tweet in Hindi, said: “Those who were mowed down were not rioters or mafia. They were farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri. And the father (of the main accused) is still a minister. ‘Thok dengey waley Baba, I am the agent of those who got India freedom and those who kept citizenship of Indians away from religion.”Emphasising the government works for development and does not patronise mafias, Yogi Adityanath stated that Kanpur region’s social fabric was damaged and development affected due to the politics of family (‘pariwarwad’) and caste (‘jatiwad’) since Independence.Deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya said the Samajwadi Party had become “Jinnahwadi Party” and that is why SP president Akhilesh Yadav was renamed as “Akhilesh Ali Jinnah”. “The BJP worked for all, whereas the SP and the BSP worked for a select few, primarily criminals,” he added. Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-try-to-incite-passions-over-caa-yogi-warns-followers-of-abba-jaan-101637684274482.html
24-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 1,500 illegal shops, hutments removed from HSVP land||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran on Tuesday demolished around 1,500 temporary shops and hutments that were illegally constructed on three acres of government land near Golf Course Road in Nathupur, officials said. Another four acres of land in the same area will be cleared from encroachments on Wednesday and Thursday, they said. The demolition was carried out amid strong resistance by the shop owners and occupants of hutments, said the officials. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that the enforcement team reached the area around 11am and the occupants were given one hour to remove their belongings but they started a protest. “A police team, which accompanied the enforcement team, brought the situation under control, after which the earth moving machines were pressed into service and the land was cleared from encroachment,” he said. Lot said that the encroachers were also issued a warning that if they tried to encroach the government land again, then FIRs would be registered against them. HSVP officials said that occupants of illegal shops and hutments in the remaining four-acre land have been asked to vacate the area. The land in Nathupur village, officials said, was acquired in 2009 and compensation was paid to the owners. After clearing the encroachments, the department of town and country planning would be asked to plan for commercial utilization of this valuable land, they added. For the past few months, the HSVP has embarked on a drive to clear its land from encroachments so that it can be sold for commercial and residential development by private players. The authority has been facing a financial crunch and has decided to monetise its assets across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-1500-temporary-shops-hutments-removed-from-hsvp-land-in-nathupur-101637675393222.html
24-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal extends deadline for second dose of Covid vaccination to Dec 3||The Himachal Pradesh government has extended the deadline for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine for 100% population above the age of 18 years till December 3. Earlier, the state had fixed November 30 as the deadline. Till November 22, over 57.8 lakh people had been administered the first dose and 46.7 lakh the second dose as well. More than 9 lakh people are yet to get the second jab. Among the 12 districts of the state, Kinnaur and Solan districts have achieved the full vaccination of the targeted population. In Shimla and Una districts, more than 90% people have been inoculated with both the doses, while the remaining districts have achieved full vaccination of more than 83% of the population. “The state is set to achieve full vaccination of the targeted population by December 3. A programme will be held in Mandi on December 4 to celebrate the feat. It will be attended by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda,” said chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh. He said that the Union minister will felicitate beneficiaries during the event. Himachal Pradesh was the first state to achieve the vaccination of 100% of the targeted population in August-end. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had praised Himachal Pradesh’s efforts to complete the first dose of vaccination of 100% adult population through a virtual conference on September 6 during which he also interacted with healthcare workers of the Covid-19 inoculation programme. In order to meet the target of vaccinating more than 9 lakh people with the second dose by December 3, the state health authorities face the uphill task of inoculating 1 lakh people daily. Besides the daily inoculation at vaccination centres, health workers have been going door-to-door to vaccinate people. In some areas, the inoculation is being done of people travelling in buses, too. HP logs 84 new infectionsHimachal Pradesh recorded 84 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking its cumulative tally to 2,26,589 while the death toll reached 3,818 after one patient died of the infection.The highest 27 cases were reported from Kangra, 18 from Shimla, 10 from Hamirpur, 13,eight each from Solan and Una, six from Mandi, three from Bilaspur and two each from Chamba and Kullu.The active case count came down to 865 while the recoveries have reached 2,21,889 after 93 people recuperated.In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is still the worst-hit among all 12 districts logging 51,732 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,846 cases and Shimla with 27,755 cases. Covid claims 2 lives, infects 179 in J&KJammu and Kashmir reported 179 fresh Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Tuesday, an official health bulletin said.Of the total cases, 149 were reported in Kashmir and while the Jammu division saw 30 infections. A fatality was reported in each division.Kashmir reported highest 64 cases in Srinagar followed by 35 in Baramulla and 17 in Budgam. Jammu district in Jammu division saw the highest 19 cases. As many as 15 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 565 followed by Baramulla and Ganderbal districts with 341 and 143 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 195 with active cases reaching 1,647.The recoveries reached 3,29,596 and the recovery rate stood at 98.17%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have mounted to 3,35,707 and the death toll has reached 4,464.The officials said that 45,453 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-extends-deadline-for-second-dose-of-covid-vaccination-to-dec-3-101637656432820.html
