25-11-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav chairs cabinet meet from hospital; winter session in Mumbai from Dec 22||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who underwent a spine surgery on November 12 at a Mumbai hospital, joined the state cabinet through video-conferencing. The state government has proposed to hold the winter session in Mumbai between December 22 and 28. The final decision over the dates will be taken in the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting to be held on November 29 at Vidhan Bhavan.Traditionally, the winter session of state legislature is held in Nagpur which is second capital of the state. However, in the wake of CM’s health issues, the state government has decided to hold the winter session in Mumbai.Amid the uncertainty over CM’s appearance in the state cabinet on Thursday, Thackeray chaired the meeting from hospital bed for around an hour. Barring a few minutes towards the end of the meeting, the CM sat through the weekly meeting. Some procedures and physiotherapy sessions post-surgery have delayed Thackeray’s discharge from the hospital. According to officials from his office, CM is likely to remain hospitalised for a few more days.“Even after his discharge from the hospital, he may take a couple of weeks to fully recover and resume work. He will begin working online, but for very limited time and for very important meetings. There is no question of handing over the charge to his deputy or any other senior minister,” said an official.Thackeray has continued the decade-long practice of not handing over charge to deputy CM or any other senior minister in cases wherein the CM is away from his office for any reason. In the early 1990s, then CM Sharad Pawar had handed over his charge to a senior minister while he was on a foreign tour. Since 1995, none of the CMs have done so in case they were unable to attend the office. Thackeray’s hospitalisation has delayed the winter session, which was scheduled to begin from December 7. “The state government has not proposed to hold it between December 22 and 28, with the effective working days being four. Besides a few important bills, including the Shakti Act, the session will see the approval to supplementary demands and the election of the speaker of Assembly,” said a minister, requesting anonymity of name.The minister said they have already spoken to leader of opposition Devendra Fandnavis to reach an amicable decision over changing the dates and venue of the winter session.As per the Nagpur Pact of 1953, the winter session of the state legislature is to be held in the second capital every year. However, last year, too, it was held in Mumbai owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-chairs-cabinet-meet-from-hospital-winter-session-in-mumbai-from-dec-22-101637864851670.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||ECI to take a call soon on biennial legislative council elections in Uttar Pradesh||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has to take a call soon on holding biennial elections to 36 seats of state legislative council from 35 local authorities as well as the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh.The term of the members elected to the state legislative council from the local authorities’ area ends on March 7, 2022. On the other hand, the term of the state assembly (17th Vidhan Sabha) ends on May 14, 2022.It remains to be seen whether ECI will hold the biennial elections before the assembly polls or afterwards. A debate is going on about the likely schedule of the two elections as the political parties get ready for both the polls.ECI will have to work out a way for the two polls, ensuring that their timing does not overlap. The poll panel will also have to look at the timing of the elections to the assemblies of Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa that went to the polls along with the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in early 2017. The terms of the assemblies of these states will end on March 23, March 27, March 19 and March 15, 2022, respectively.Those aware of the developments on the issue said the BJP recently inducted some Samajwadi Party MLCs (whose term expires on March 7, 2022) and apparently promised them a party ticket in the biennial poll. The BJP’s move triggered speculation about an early (December 2021) biennial election so that the party may use the likely “positive” outcome to support its projections for “victory” in the 2022 UP assembly elections. Others, however, said ECI may hold the biennial elections only after the UP assembly elections.“If the ECI decides to hold the biennial elections before the assembly elections, it may have to announce the poll programme within the next few days. ECI’s code of conduct will come into force soon after announcement of the biennial election. The BJP government will thereafter be left with little time to get some of the major development projects launched ahead of 2022 assembly elections.“An early biennial legislative council election (December 2021) will lead to enforcement of code of conduct in the next few days. As the election to the state assembly is likely to be announced in early January 2022, the code of conduct for the same will come into force again. The enforcement of the code of conduct may affect the pace of development. I think the biennial election will be postponed and may be held only after the 2022 assembly polls,” said Rae Bareli BJP leader Dinesh Pratap Singh, MLC whose term expires on March 7, 2022.There is another school of thought which suggests that the two elections can be held simultaneously.“We can’t comment on the issue till the ECI announces the schedule for any of these two elections. ECI, we hope, will take a call on the issue soon,” said officials on condition of anonymity.On the other hand, Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said, “The BJP apparently wants to weaken democracy and ensure that the elections according to its wishes. The SP, however, wants to strengthen democracy.”UP BJP spokesman Chandra Mohan said, “ECI decides the timing of the polls. The BJP will be ready for the polls as and when announced by ECI.”“This (holding elections) is ECI’s jurisdiction. ECI is an independent body and will look at the constitutional requirements to hold the two elections well in time. ECI has powers to decide the timing and enforcement of the code of conduct,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.It may be mentioned that ECI had announced the schedule for biennial election to 36 seats of the state legislative council on January 29, 2016.“The biennial election to fill up these seats of the members, vacated due to their retirement could not be conducted before their retirement as the percentage of the local bodies/electors was less than 75 percent which is a requisite minimum for holding election from Local Authorities’ Constituency as per the norm specified by the Commission and upheld by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Election Commission of India versus Shivaji and Ors (AIR 1988 SC V 1). Now, as per the information furnished by the CEO, Uttar Pradesh, the percentage of the local bodies/electors is more than 75 per cent, and therefore, the Commission has decided to hold biennial election to Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council from 35 Local Authorities’ Constituencies to fill up 36 vacated seats…,” read the order of ECI’s announcement of biennial elections dated January 29, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eci-to-take-a-call-soon-on-biennial-legislative-council-elections-in-uttar-pradesh-101637864792533.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Delhi govt revives ban on construction after SC order||New Delhi: A day after the Supreme Court ordered a ban on construction across the National Capital Region (NCR) until further orders, the Delhi government on Thursday re-imposed the ban on construction and demolition (C&D) activities in the city and said the labour department is working out a financial assistance scheme to help daily wage labourers affected by the ban.“The Supreme Court had issued an order last night in this regard and considering that, all construction and demolition work in Delhi is being banned again. Plumbing, interior decoration, electric work, and carpentry work will be allowed, but apart from that, all construction and demolition work is being stopped,” said Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday, adding that government agencies were already working towards implementing the Supreme Court’s orders to control air pollution levels in Delhi.Noting that the government is keeping a close eye on air quality, the minister said the current ban will stay in place until the situation improves.“We are mentally prepared for everything. If the situation improves, we will consider the prospect of reopening and if the situation worsens, we will take more actions as required. For the past week, because construction and demolition work was halted, construction workers had been facing trouble, so the government has now decided to provide financial assistance to these workers. For this, we will work with the labour department and prepare an outline,” he said. The minister also said that the government is encouraging use of public transport services, pointing out that CNG buses are being used to ferry government employees from highly concentrated areas such as Timarpur and Gulabi Bagh. “Along with that, we are also starting a shuttle bus service for all the nearest Metro stations so that people coming from the Metro can reach the office more conveniently. Trucks entering Delhi from outside, except for essential services and trucks running on CNG and electricity, have already been stopped,” said Rai on Thursday. Construction activities in Delhi were halted for a period of five days, from November 16-21, following which the ban was lifted on November 22.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said all measures listed under the ‘severe’ category and below of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) are already in place in Delhi, and added that extreme measures such as closure of schools and construction activities come under the ‘emergency’ category. “These measures only need to be taken when forecasts show air quality will become extremely bad in the coming days and stay in that range for some time. However, we already have a number of existing measures in place and it is important to enforce them better. Monitoring existing measures is critical,” she said.Delhi and the National Capital Region, in an annual winter rerun, has been in the grip of hazardous air pollution as a toxic smog lingers over the Capital and its adjoining cities, leading to a public health emergency. This November has also seen the number of farm fires reaching a new high with the enforcement of a ban on the practice collapsing.The city’s pollution levels on Wednesday began to worsen as winds weakened. The air quality index (AQI) was “poor” on Tuesday - for the first time since November 1 - with a reading of 290 recorded, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. The AQI shot up to 361 — in the “very poor” category — at 4pm on Wednesday, and touched 400, on the brink of “severe category”, according to Thursday’s bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-delhi-govt-revives-ban-on-construction-after-sc-order-101637864732746.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Schools reopening: Some parents keen, some hesitant||Hours after the state government announced its decision to reopen schools for students from classes 1 to 12 across Maharashtra from December 1, reactions from parents and schools ranged from hesitancy and apprehension to willingness. “Since children have been confined to their computer screens for the last 19 months, the decision to resume physical classes, though very sudden, is a good move,” said Dadar resident Shiv Sawant, parent of Class 3 student Sarthak and Class 6 student Sahana from Balmohan Vidyamandir at Shivaji Park. He added, “We also need to mentally prepare younger children to go to school and it will not be possible within a week. If they call smaller children after a fortnight, I will be happier to send my child to school. As of now, I am not sure if they will be keen.” On Thursday, Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that classes 1 to 7 will resume in urban areas and classes 1 to 4 in rural areas. All other classes had already commenced. Gaikwad added that the school education department will soon release the standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools to follow. As per information shared by the state school education department, there are 13.4 million students studying between classes 1 to 7 in the state and more than half a million teachers for these batches. While some schools are apprehensive of having the entire lot of students within school premises in view of social distancing norms, there are some schools that say they are prepared. Parents, who are keen to send their children to school, expressed their concerns on the implementation of Covid protocols, while a section showed interest in sending their children to school even if it is once a week, so that they get accustomed to the physical education pattern. “I am comfortable sending my kid to school since everything else has anyway resumed for children. As a parent, it was difficult to manage my child’s transition from pre-primary to Class 1 in the online mode since my daughter was used to being treated as a toddler in school. Now that she suddenly has to write a lot and has homework as well, attending physical classes will be beneficial,” said Thane resident Ashu Jain, parent of 7-year-old Tiana, a student of Rainbow International School, Thane. Jain added, “We have to live with Covid and hence it is important that children also learn how to manage in a pandemic situation. Even if schools start with a non-instructional day once a week, students may find it easier to get used to the routine.” With barely a week for schools and students to prepare, parents’ groups said the reopening date of December 1 is short notice. “The senior classes are functioning well, as the older children are aware of how to follow Covid protocols, but it’s not the same with younger children. Schools will require at least 15 days to a month in order to prepare for the entire school to start functioning. Up to 20% of parents may send their children to school, but others will be reluctant and prefer to gauge the situation,” said Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents’ Association. Some schools feel reopening will be advantageous to younger students. “Due to virtual classes, toddlers have been missing an appropriate environment to learn and grow. Coming back to school is being welcomed by most parents and has also given teachers relief because nothing can replace physical classes. We are anxious but mostly just overjoyed to have our children back in school,” said Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA) and director of D G Khaitan School, Malad. Leena Verma, Principal, St Joseph’s High School, said, “We are following the CBSE board and since we have board exams are currently on, all our protocols are in place and our staff has been trained accordingly. Even if we have to start school within a week, we are completely prepared. We have enough infrastructure to limit to 20 students in a classroom and all other Covid protocols are in place.” While international schools are confident of managing the crowd, state board schools are feeling the pinch. “Each of our batches has three divisions, or 180 students in total. Bringing back young students will require more people on board to ensure Covid protocols are executed well. At present, many of our teachers are still waiting for their second vaccine dose. We are apprehensive about this move,” said a principal of a state board school in south Mumbai. Kshama Valanjoo, assistant headmistress, VPM’s Vidya Mandir High School, Dahisar, said, “It will be difficult to conduct hybrid classes and at the same time maintain physical distance. As of now, we are awaiting guidelines or the SOP to be released by the state government as only that will give us an idea as to how we should plan. Currently, we only have only a third of the students attending school. But we will need more staff and infrastructure when the entire lot starts attending physical classes.” Madhu Singh, principal, Billabong High International School, Malad, said, “We will be following partial resumption or full resumption only after receiving a formal directive from the state government. All main contact points and floors will have sanitiser booths installed; we also have a task force in place.” Dr Samir Dalwai, a developmental and behavioural paediatrician and a member of the paediatric task force that recommended that schools be reopened, said, “With fewer positive cases, this is the appropriate time to reopen schools. When children wearing masks can go to malls and other public places, this should also not be a problem. However, parents and schools should ensure that the transition is slow and smooth, specifically for younger children. The children have been around their parents for almost two years now, and will be clingy and fussy. They will also find it difficult to adjust to the new routine. I would suggest schools to take it slow and not focus on completing the syllabus as it is important for children to get used to the school discipline and lack of screen time.” How to ensure a smooth transition for children By Dr Samir Dalwai, member, state paediatric task force||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-reopening-some-parents-keen-some-hesitant-101637864731586.html
25-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram admin should set up CFCs and CSCs under a roof for people’s ease: MCG||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will send a proposal to the district administration to set up citizen facilitation centres (CFCs) and common service centres (CSCs) under one roof, so residents can avail these government services at one location, officials said on Thursday.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja announced the development following an inspection of the CFCs in the district on Tuesday, they added.The Haryana government provides such services at common service centres (CSCs), where a citizen can enroll for Aadhaar card, passport registration, get a copy of e-Aadhar, renew driving licence, procure PAN card, take up voter identification (ID) card related matters, widow pension, disability pension, among other such amenities.Ahuja inspected CFCs in wards 6, 13, 15 and 23 on Tuesday, following which, he said that CFCs and CSCs can be brought together at one location to ensure that all the citizens can avail such services of the MCG and other government departments from one location, instead of making multiple visits to various offices. There are at least 18 CSCs within the MCG area.“Placing CFCs and CSCs at one location will be extremely convenient for the people, and I have directed the MCG officials to explore this matter with the district administration. Rather than visiting multiple government offices, residents can now complete their work within their municipal ward in a single visit, which will also help them save a lot of time,” said Ahuja. At present, the MCG has CFCs at 25 out of its 35 wards, and the civic body aims to complete setting up the remaining nine by the next year, according to the officials.People can pay property tax bills, water bills, procure marriage, birth and death certificates among other such amenities at a CFC.“Any initiative that eases the lives of residents is always welcomed. A proposal for placing CFCs and CSCs together will be examined, and its feasibility will be assessed,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-admin-should-set-up-cfcs-and-cscs-under-a-roof-for-people-s-ease-mcg-101637864672948.html
25-11-2021||Pune||With eye on civic polls, local reps demand Aadhaar camps in Pune wards||PUNE: Ahead of civic polls, local representatives at the district- and municipal corporation- level are making a beeline for organising Aadhaar card camps in their respective wards.Earlier, there were 60 Aadhaar card machines operating at various ward offices however the state government transferred half of them from Maha Online to Maha IT (both government-owned companies) where the work of machine calibration and user identification is currently underway. Hence, there are only 30 such machines at various ward offices presently.Rahul Jagtap, chief of the information and technology department, said, “The Pune district collectorate issues machines as per demand to social organisations and banks among others. We provide machines to hold camps of two to three days.”Another Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said, “Based on applications from corporators, schools and social organisations, we provide machines as per availability. We have received more than 15 applications for arranging camps in different wards.”“As per the Pune district collector’s guidelines, Aadhaar machines will be provided only to camps held at government premises such as government- schools, colleges and other establishments such as ward offices etc.,” the official said.Rohini Akhade, nodal officer for Aadhaar, Pune district, said, “We have received applications from local representatives not only from PMC but also Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural. At present, we have a total 350 machines out of which 213 are operating. We have demanded 100 more machines from UIDAI. We have to sort out the applications as per the demands of the corporators. However, the demand of local corporators is more than the others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-eye-on-civic-polls-local-reps-demand-aadhaar-camps-in-pune-wards-101637864671700.html
25-11-2021||Other||Haryana AG defers hearing on contempt plea against Sidhu||Chandigarh Haryana advocate general has deferred the hearing on a criminal contempt petition filed against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for his reported tweets about ongoing proceedings in Punjab’s drugs racket case before the high court to December 10.Parampreet Singh Bajwa, a high court lawyer, who is also treasurer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association appeared before the advocate general on Thursday and addressed arguments, and also gave some judgments on the issue, seeking the consent of the AG. “The AG has deferred the matter for December 10 to examine the judgments, which I submitted today,” Bajwa said.The plea seeks consent of the AG for initiation of contempt proceedings against Sidhu by the high court. It alleges Sidhu tweets about the drugs case just when it is to be taken up by high court in a matter where proceedings are ongoing. His act “substantially” interferes with “due course of justice” since twitter is a public platform and he has 9.8 lakh followers. He knows his tweets are widely read and generate huge publicity, the plea further argues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-ag-defers-hearing-on-contempt-plea-against-sidhu-101637864551177.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Classes 8 to 12: Attendance improves to 80% in Pune schools||PUNE Currently, the turnout of students has been satisfactory in the city limits for offline classes for Classes 8 to 12. As per experts, the turnout of students has been at least 80 per cent post-Diwali vacation. After classes started in October this year, initially the attendance was only 30 per cent. Teachers note that students should resume offline education to ensure that there is no learning loss.On Thursday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad declared that schools from Class 1 to Class 7 will reopen in urban areas from December 1.Shubhangi Chavan, deputy education officer for the primary school of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) education department, said that there are no clear standard operating procedures (SOPs) as of yet.“The directives are likely to come soon. The SOPs for safety norms are likely to remain the same. The temperature will be checked, social distancing has to be followed and a face mask has to be worn compulsorily. The question of capacity is still not clear. As of now, schools are permitted to have 50 per cent occupancy. The detailed order will be released soon by the department,” said Chavan.Speaking about the occupancy, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association said that the decision is welcome.“The decision is important and good for students from all classes. Teachers, schools and students are happy. Classes 8 to 12 should now be allowed with full capacity. So far, the attendance of Class 8 to 12 is also good. After Diwali vacations, the attendance has increased up to 80 per cent,” said Gaikwad.He added that the attendance has increased as many families are returning from their native villages.“As a precautionary step, vaccination for children should start soon. Teachers and schools are taking precautionary measures,” said Gaikwad.Himani Kulkarni, a consultant psychologist at Jupiter Hospital, said that like several other parts of the country, in Maharashtra also Covid-19 cases have not shown a fresh surge.“Due to the pandemic, schools, especially primary sections, have been suspended since April 2020. Though the digital medium helped school students to continue learning. However, school closure brought in mental health issues among children. Healthcare institutions were also witnessing that some parents came to them with complaints of depression among their kids. There will be considerable improvement when their learning exercise comes back to normal when schools resume as per government directives,” said Kulkarni.She added that the pandemic is not over yet and all protocols should be followed by schools such as wearing masks, using hand sanitiser, and or mental and overall, well-being of children, parents and teachers are expected to play a very important role in the well-being of children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/classes-8-to-12-attendance-improves-to-80-in-pune-schools-101637864491732.html
25-11-2021||Pune||No hydraulic option for Sambhaji bridge: Maha-Metro; work likely to resume||PUNE: Now that the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro) has disapproved the proposal for a hydraulic bridge at Sambhaji bridge aka Lakdi pul, the metro work is likely to resume as per the previous plan at the spot.Earlier, Ganesh mandals objected to the height of the viaduct which is part of the metro work at Sambhaji bridge, after which the Maha Metro decided to temporarily stop work. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol took cognisance of the objections raised and ordered that the work be halted.Maha Metro project director Atul Gadgil said, “The Ganesh mandal representatives submitted the proposal to erect a hydraulic bridge instead of the existing plan but we gave our recommendations on the same to the mayor. Our view is that it is not technically feasible and that work be allowed to resume as per the previous plan. Now, the elected members will need to take a call on it.”Whereas elected members said that the height of the bridge was decided much earlier as per the previous plan and the same appeared as news. When the work started however, they (Ganesh mandals) opposed it which unnecessarily caused delay||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-hydraulic-option-for-sambhaji-bridge-maha-metro-work-likely-to-resume-101637864371493.html
25-11-2021||Gurugram||GMDA plans to install 42 new air purifiers in Old Gurugram to curb pollution||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to install 42 new air purifiers in parts of Old Gurugram at the earliest, which see high pollution levels due to heavy vehicular movement and dust. The move came in a bid to reduce air pollution levels in the areas, said GMDA officials.Air purifiers help in reducing pollution levels in surrounding areas, and 71 such purifiers have been installed in different parts of the city, particularly in new sectors, they added.Subash Yadav, additional chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA, said on Thursday that they are planning to install these purifiers in areas such as Old Railway road, New Railway road, Sheetla Mata road, Palam Vihar to railway station road, Rezangla Chowk, and Old Delhi-Gurgaon road under phase II of the project ‘Air Care’.“We have installed 71 purifiers in several areas of the city, but most of these were in newer sectors across the highway. We will now install these purifiers across Old Gurugram to curb the air pollution levels there,” said Yadav.He also said that these air purifiers are being installed in collaboration with the Indian Pollution Control Association (IPCA), a Delhi-based NGO which is taking care of the installation and maintenance of the same. “Vehicular pollution is very high in Delhi-NCR (national capital region), and that is why the move is much-needed,” he said.IPCA, which conducted a study on particulate matter concentrations near 53 outdoor air purifiers installed by the GMDA, said that the devices were able to reduce dust pollution by 35-50% in its immediate vicinity i.e. in 500 square metres.Radha Goel, deputy director of IPCA, said in a statement that these purifiers are fitted with exhaust fans and work on filtration technology. IPCA will operate and maintain these purifiers for the next three years, Goel said.Air quality experts, however, said that smog towers or outdoor air purifiers -- like the ones installed -- may not be effective in open areas as there are no barriers (psychometric or physical) to control the direction of clean air. “The velocity of clean air from these towers are not enough to hold or reach to a distance with dominant atmospheric resistance factors, and even a wind speed of five to seven kilometres per hour will overpower this so-called filtered or treated air,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-plans-to-install-42-new-air-purifiers-in-old-gurugram-to-curb-pollution-101637864314751.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Reopening schools for primary class children difficult, but necessary: Education minister||After a gap of nearly two years, all students across Maharashtra, including primary school children, will be going back to physical school from December 1. The decision to resume physical classes for all students was taken at a state cabinet meeting on Thursday.School education minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement after the cabinet meeting. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP), including the Covid protocol to be followed, will be issued by the state school education department soon. Since October, schools in urban Maharashtra were open for students from Class 8 to 12, and from Class 5 to 12 in rural areas. “The state cabinet today has decided to allow reopening of physical classes in all the schools across the state. The decision was taken after holding a series of discussions with the paediatric task force and others. We have sought a few days to prepare a detailed SOP for the schools and parents and thus decided to resume offline classes from December 1,” Gaikwad said. The task force was appointed earlier this year when experts feared that children might be affected by a possible third wave.Physical classes in schools were suspended in Maharashtra from March 2020 when Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. Offline classes had resumed in rural areas for Class 8 to 12 from July 12. On October 4, schools in urban areas were also reopened for Class 8 to 12 students whereas in rural areas, physical classes have resumed for Class 5 to 7 students.Gaikwad said the state government monitored the Covid-19 situation for 15 days after Diwali before taking the decision. There was a concern that the daily cases in the state may start rising after the festive season, but thankfully that did not happen.While admitting the difficulties in bringing primary students back to school, Gaikwad said it was a necessary step. “It is difficult to compel students from Class 1 to 4 to wear masks and maintain physical distance as they are too young. But it is also necessary to bring them back to schools, because, according to experts, gradually they are likely to go out of the mainstream as they have been at home for the last two years,” Gaikwad told reporters at Sahyadri guest house after the cabinet meeting.“Our priority is to provide a safe and healthy environment to the students. With this in mind, the role of parents and the school management will also be fixed in the SOP,” she added. “In the next six days, the emphasis will be on acclimatizing schools, parents and children towards a safe transition to physical classes, as classrooms have been shut for nearly two years,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reopening-schools-for-primary-class-children-difficult-but-necessary-education-minister-101637864256026.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Experts refute state govt’s claim that 39% of land in Haryana constitutes ‘forests’||Haryana, the state with the lowest forest cover in the country (3.62% of the total area), is again mired in controversy with regard to the classification of what and how much land in the state constitutes “forests”.Last month, the Haryana government submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court (SC) stating that 39.35% of the state’s total geographical area (4.4 million) and 100% of the area in 11 districts of the state is to be considered forest and hence, most buildings in Gurugram and other towns are to be demolished if the apex court’s 2018 judgement in the Kant Enclave matter is to be followed. But now two intervention applications have been filed in the Supreme Court by Aravalli Bachao Citizens Group and Gurugram resident retired Lieutenant Colonel Sadavarman Oberoi respectively, stating that the state government is deliberately misinterpreting the Kant Enclave judgement to overstate the area notified in the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) by over 50 times to push for an amendment to the act, which would lead to loss of whatever little forest area in the Aravallis that is currently protected.In its affidavit to the Supreme Court on October 20, in matters linked to the Khori Gaon demolition and Satpal and Others Vs Union of India, the Haryana government said that according to the Kant Enclave judgement of the SC dated September 11, 2018, areas notified under sections 3,4 and 5 of the PLPA are to be considered forest area and structures standing thereon are to be considered illegal. The affidavit urges the apex court to consider an amendment to the PLPA issued by the Haryana government on February 27, 2019 that was stayed by the SC on March 1, 2019.“As it is, only 70% of the Aravallis in Faridabad and 60% of the Aravallis in Gurgaon are notified under section 4 and/or 5 of the PLPA (by special order) and are treated as recorded forests as per the 1996 Godavarman judgement of the Supreme Court. The SC was right to stay the amendment in 2019 within two days of its passing. If the stay is removed and the amendment is put to effect, there will be virtually no legal forest left in the Aravallis of Gurgaon and Faridabad. Earlier, the state had said there is nothing called ‘Aravalli’ in their revenue records. So, if there is no forest and no Aravalli, one can guess what will come there – only real estate,” said Chetan Agarwal, an independent Gurugram based forest analyst.The Haryana government submitted that the areas notified under Section 4 and/or 5 (by special order) of the PLPA are treated as legal forest only because of judgements of the SC. Now, the 2018 judgement of the apex court has extended the forest cover from 31,738 hectare (0.72% of the state’s geographical area) to 1.7 million hectares (39.35%). In the amendment bill issued in 2019, the Haryana government claimed that 1.08 million hectares (25%) would become forest. The PLPA has no provision to rectify, amend or denotify the order or notifications issued under it even when there is an inherent defect, mistakes, or certain land has been inadvertently included or found to have been issued in violation of prescribed procedure, said the government in its affidavit. The Haryana government also stated that there is no provision in the PLPA to provide reasonable opportunity of being heard before imposing restrictions and prohibition. The amendment proposed by the government is hence in conformity with the constitutional rights granted under Article 300-A (right to property) of the Constitution.The intervention application filed by environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta, on behalf on Aravalli Bachao Citizens Group, on November 13 states that wrong interpretation of the PLPA would lead to large scale deforestation in the state and aggravate the environmental conditions, thereby leading to deterioration of both water and air quality, which violates Article 21 (protection of life) of the Constitution. “It is submitted that the affidavit dated 20.10.2021 filed by State of Haryana is not in accordance with the direction of the Hon’ble Court and rather a blatantly misguided attempt to override and negate the judgements of this Hon’ble Court and to justify the amendment being carried out by... the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900. In the interest of justice, and the ecological security of the Delhi NCR region, it is important that the real factual and legal positions with respect to the forest in Haryana with special reference to Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900 is brought before this Hon’ble Court for proper adjudication of the matter,” states the intervention. It points out that the Supreme Court has, in several judgements, dealt with what constitutes forest under PLPA. In fact, an affidavit filed by the Haryana government on December 8, 1996, shows the areas the government considered as forest land notified under sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA. Dutta’s application states that in the Kant Enclave matter, the SC has interpreted that the notification under PLPA is to ensure that there is no non-forest activities, such as cultivation, pasturing of sheep and goats, construction of buildings, herding, etc. in areas notified specially under sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA. “The Supreme Court’s Kant Enclave judgement widened the purview and said even general areas notified under certain sections of the PLPA are forests. The National Green Tribunal also started taking a similar view. Hence, the amendment to the PLPA is very important to secure areas, where we have utilities, HUDA enclaves etc,” said a senior official of the Haryana government, who did not want to be named.The intervention applications make it clear that the Supreme Court only considers those areas--notified under sections 4 and/or 5 of the PLPA by special order --as forests. The areas are village specific and the forest department was already treating them as forests (the department has a record of the exact areas notified as forests). All areas notified by special order in south Haryana are in the Aravalli hills, with the land type recorded as ‘gair mumkin pahar’ (uncultivable land).Under Section 4 of PLPA, there are wide areas which are not notified and are considered to be in the general category, such as entire districts or part thereof like entire Gurgaon and part of Faridabad. One needs permission for tree cutting in these areas. “The figure (39.35%) that the Haryana government is quoting as forest land is incorrect. Since 1964, when the state had formed the forest department, it has maintained that only certain areas notified under special orders under sections 4 and 5 are forests. Section 3 of PLPA is a general section, where restrictions on tree felling may or may not be issued. How did they suddenly discover 39.35% area is forest? The Kant Enclave judgement is pretty clear and there should be no confusion,” said R P Balwan, a former forest conservator of Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/experts-refute-state-govt-s-claim-that-39-of-land-in-haryana-constitutes-forests-101637864251461.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Work on Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro line begins; 3-year deadline||PUNE: Work on the Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro line began on Thursday, with city’s guardian minister, deputy minister Ajit Pawar, also holding a meeting to ensure the line is ready within three years. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) executing this metro line will develop it on the PPP (public private partnership) model, with Tata and Siemens jointly excuting the project. The Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metroline is considered Pune’s third metro line, after PCMC to Swargate , and Vanaz to Ramwadi. The work on the previous two metro lines is in progress and commercial operations for the same on at least one line is scheduled to start from December. PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase said, “The length of the Hinjewadi -Shivajinagar metro line is 23.2km. There are 23 stations on this line and the whole line is elevated. At least 98 per cent of the land required for the project is in our possession.” Diwase added, “Actual work on the Metro line started on the ground and we are hoping that the project will be completed before the said timeline. Along with this, the flyover work at the University chowk will start soon. PMRDA, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the traffic police recently held a joint meeting to discuss an alternate traffic plan when the flyover work begins.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/work-on-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-line-begins-3-year-deadline-101637864131397.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Three murders reported in Delhi in one day||A 26-year-old man was shot dead by a man from his locality over an alleged monetary dispute on Wednesday night in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar. Two other murders were reported in the city in Jahangirpuri and Rajouri Garden on Wednesday.In the case of the Ambedkar Nagar murder, police identified the deceased man as one Avinash (identified only by his first name in police records), and said he was a local moneylender, who lent money to one Vicky some months ago. Police are yet to arrest Vicky (also identified only by his first name) and confirm if this was indeed the reason why he murdered Avinash.Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said that police received information from a private hospital about a 26-year-old man who was brought there with a gunshot wound in the head.“Initial investigation into the matter revealed that Avinash, who is a moneylender, had a dispute with one Vicky who also resides in the same locality,” said DCP Jaiker.Around midnight on Wednesday, Avinash, Vicky and some other persons from the locality had gathered at K block in Dakshinpuri. Eyewitnesses told police that the two suddenly started arguing. Vicky then took out a gun and shot Avinash in the head. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Thursday afternoon.Hours before this murder, police in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri found the body of a 27-year-old man in B block. A passerby had spotted the body and informed the police control room. Police identified the man as Sonu Kumar. In this case, police solved the murder within six hours by arresting Kumar’s younger brother. Police arrested Monu and his two accomplices Tushar P and Sunny after checking the CCTV footage of the crime spot. “Monu confessed that he assaulted his brother and stoned him to death because Sonu harassed his family members. Monu said that Sonu was addicted to drugs,” a police officer, who asked not to be named, said.And before Sonu’s body was found in Jahangirpuri, 25-year-old Hemant Kumar was stabbed to death by two men in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden area. Kumar worked with a food delivery company. Police said Kumar was chased from a local tea shop to his house in L block by the two men, who later stabbed him multiple times in the chest, killing him on the spot.Kumar’s relatives said the two men who stabbed him had a tiff with his friend Nikhil.Kumar’s cousin Deepak said that on November 17, Nikhilhad fought with some men who were drunk and were misbehaving with guests while dancing at a friend’s wedding. The issue had been settled then by the people at the wedding. Deepak said that Kumar had reached home at around 4.30am on Wednesday but left home within minutes after Nikhil asked him to join him at a tea shop.“On Wednesday morning while Nikhil was with Kumar at the tea shop, the two attackers reached there and recognised Nikhil from the (fight) incident last week. They abused him, to which Kumar objected. He did not know that they were carrying weapons. The two men took out their knives and attacked Hemant (Kumar). He ran to his house but they still chased him and stabbed him, “said Deepak.DCP (west) Urvija Goel said police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-murders-reported-in-delhi-in-one-day-101637863952723.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Jewar airport project: Parties vie to take credit||Multiple political parties have claimed credit for the Noida International Airport project, whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Jewar in Greater Noida on Thursday. A similar scramble for credit was witnessed during the inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway project on November 16. Between them, the two projects are expected to impact politics and commerce in these two crucial regions in a big way, experts said. “The Purvanchal Greenfield Expressway would not only connect eastern UP to the state capital Lucknow but also beyond to the National Capital through the Agra-Lucknow and the Yamuna Expressways. The Jewar airport would provide better access to Noida, Greater Noida residents and an alternative to those from New Delhi and Gurgaon. Purvanchal Expressway would pass through Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Mau, Ghazipur and Azamgarh while the Jewar airport would also benefit residents of Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Agra among others. They are expected to usher in prosperity in east and west UP, the reason why there is an urgency among political parties to claim credit,” said Professor Manuka Khanna of the political science department of Lucknow University (LU). “At the end of the day, the common man wants a party that holds out hope for him. Why would anyone want to miss out in reminding voters that they are the ones behind the development hope,” she said. In his speech, Modi blamed the previous governments in power in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for delaying the Jewar project and credited a BJP government in the state with originally conceiving it two decades back even as two former UP chief ministers, Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati sought to position themselves as the ones to have envisaged those projects. While Akhilesh hit out at the BJP, Maya questioned the Congress for derailing projects conceived by them in Jewar.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath sought to dub the opposition parties wanting credit for development projects as “kam aql (dim witted)”. UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh coined the term “credit chor (credit thieves)” to target the opposition. “The Jewar International Airport that was first talked about in 2001 and whose foundation stone is now laid, shuttled between multiple governments from Lucknow to Delhi for two decades. These game changer projects impact a huge population and, therefore, there is this eagerness to claim credit,” Khanna said. “The Congress played spoilsport in the BSP government’s development plans in Jewar by coming up with a Taj International Airport and aviation hub and a Ganga Expressway project connecting Noida to Ballia,” Mayawati tweeted soon after the foundation stone of the Jewar airport was laid by Modi. Mayawati also claimed that the Jewar airport project conceived by her government had been much delayed and questioned the timing of the foundation stone laying ceremony just ahead of the elections. She also questioned the land acquisition policy for the Jewar project. Akhilesh Yadav claimed that he had, along with Jewar, another airport in mind in Firozabad, famous for its glass works and bangles. “Had that permission not been denied, churis (bangles) too would have complemented Jewar. Only the SP would decorate UP,” tweeted Yadav who has been repeatedly accusing the BJP of hijacking development projects initiated during his time from 2012 to 2017. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh advised Akhilesh Yadav that after 2024, he can use the Jewar airport built by BJP to fly out on a vacation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jewar-airport-project-parties-vie-to-take-credit-101637863771504.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Cell formed to coordinate efforts by govt bodies to clean Yamuna: Delhi CM Kejriwal||A week after announcing a 6-point action plan to clean the Yamuna river in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the government has constituted a Yamuna Cleaning Cell (YCC) to improve co-ordination among the agencies involved cleaning the heavily polluted river. The cell will be headed by Delhi Jal Board CEO, and will have representatives from five concerned departments including Irrigation flood control Department, DJB, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), DSIIDC and DUSIB. “Yamuna Cleaning Cell will expedite the projects on cleaning the river and overcome administrative hurdles. Additionally, the Delhi Jal Board will take over the operations and maintenance of CETPs [common effluent treatment plants] to prevent industrial waste from falling into the Yamuna and drainage from JJ clusters will be diverted to STPs [sewage treatment plants] to eliminate untreated discharge in stormwater drains,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said that a major hurdle in the way of Yamuna cleaning projects is the complex multiplicity of bodies involved. “We are creating a cell that will oversee the working of all the involved bodies. It will help us in identifying and delegating responsibility, and streamline our projects. For instance, if an issue is being faced because of the electroplating industries or some other polluting works, this cell will have to take care of that,” he added.A government official said the chief minister held a review meeting over the management of wastewater from industrial areas and JJ clusters. Officials say that the mandate of the cell will the monitoring and implementation of the Yamuna cleaning plan and action points announced by Kejriwal on 18th November that include — construction of new sewage treatment plants; upgradation of STP, laying of sewerage network in 1799 unauthorised colonies; desilting of trunk and peripheral sewer lines; Providing Sewer Connections in already notified areas; interceptor sewer project. Currently, there are about 675 unsewered JJ clusters from where wastewater enters the river. A DJB official said that there are 11 CETPs in Delhi which are managed by CETP societies and the water utility will take over their operations and maintenance. However, the process of taking over these facilities has not been elaborated yet.An expert said that the decision to form a unified cell is a positive development, but it should be an empowered body. Jyoti Sharma, head of FORCE, a Delhi-based water conservation and sanitation organisation, said that theoretically it is a wonderful development for the river. “Even in the past, when monitoring committees and cells have been made by court and the green tribunal, we have seen some progress on the ground. We should also involve local community groups and RWAs, which have direct link to river and the outfall points, in the oversight mechanism to ensure accountability in Yamuna cleaning projects,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cell-formed-to-coordinate-efforts-by-govt-bodies-to-clean-yamuna-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101637863653458.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Anna Hazare stable post angiography at Pune hospital||Pune: Anti-corruption activist Anna Hazare was hospitalised in Pune on Thursday after he complained of chest pain, as per hospital authorities. The anti-corruption crusader, admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic, is stable after a procedure done to remove a minor blockage in his coronary artery, they said. “The 84-year-old social activist was admitted to the hospital after he complained of chest pain for the last two to three days. He was thoroughly evaluated by a team of experts,” said a statement by Ruby Hall Clinic. It stated that an ECG (electrocardiogram) revealed “minor changes” following which two doctors - PK Grant and CN Makhale - conducted an angiography, an imaging test that uses X-rays to check blood vessels, on him. “The angiogram revealed a minor blockage in his coronary artery. The procedure was performed successfully and he is receiving the appropriate medical line of treatment. He is stable and likely to be discharged in 2 to 3 days,” said Dr Grant, chief cardiologist and managing trustee, Ruby Hall Clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/anna-hazare-stable-post-angiography-at-pune-hospital-101637863652306.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi: Complete Magh Mela preparations on time||PRAYAGRAJ: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday ordered that adequate flow of clean water in the be ensured for the forthcoming Magh Mela-2022 set to start on the banks of Sangam on the auspicious occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 14. He also ordered that the set Covid-109 protocol also be observed during the annual fair and necessary steps be taken to safely conduct this religious event. The CM issued these instructions during a meeting of the officials concerned convened to review preparations of Magh Mela-2022 at his residence in the state capital. The CM also ordered that the progress of the preparations for the fair be reviewed every fortnight at the level of the chief secretary. Yogi issued instructions that the mela adhikari (mela officer) and SP (Magh Mela) be posted at the earliest and all departments concerned appoint respective nodal officers to ensure smooth preparations for the fair. He also asked senior officials to undertake field visits in the run-up to the fair to assess and review the on-field progress of the preparations. , the CM ordered that Covid-19 vaccination and testing centres also be set up for the fair and all works related to infrastructure, including construction of pontoon bridges, checkered plates, drainage and water pipelines and construction of power substations, installation of LED street light etc be ensured within the stipulated deadlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-complete-magh-mela-preparations-on-time-101637863592406.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Storekeeper, employee at Delhi AIIMS eye centre held for fraud||The store keeper of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Eye Centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has been arrested along with another contractual employee in the case related to fictitious deliveries of medical items at the eye department of the hospital for which money was released without the knowledge of senior officials, Delhi police said on Thursday.Police are probing the fraud which surfaced around three months ago, and have already arrested a 59-year-old city-based trader, Sneh Rani Gupta, for duping the institute of at least ₹13 crore on October 30.Police said the trader’s questioning led them to the store keeper, Bijender Kumar, and the office assistant, Naveen Kumar, adding that investigators are questioning the two to identify more people from the hospital involved in the fraud.Police said Bijender (52) allegedly prepared forged purchase documents, supply orders and inspection notes, and secured the release of payments in favour of Gupta’s firm. Additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh said the purchase documents were issued allegedly using Naveen’s official ID. “All the manual and digital records maintained at AIIMS for the purpose of such supplies revealed criminal misdeeds of the accused in connivance with accused firm,” he said, adding that Naveen worked as a programme assistant at the office of a former chief of the centre when the fraud happened.Narrating the sequence of events that led the EOW to investigate the scam, police said that the scam surfaced in September when the medical superintendent of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Eye Centre lodged a complaint regarding embezzlement of government funds to the tune of ₹5 crore on account of purchase of linen items which were never delivered. Investigators soon uncovered that ₹13.85 crore was lost to the fraud.Additional commissioner Singh said that these items were shown as purchased on basis of forged supply orders. “No actual supply of items took place, and the payment was released to the supplier firm... The account statement of the firm confirmed receipt of payments for items which were never delivered. Scrutiny of the e-way bills revealed that the vehicles, shown as used for delivery of those goods to AIIMS, never delivered the same at AIIMS Delhi on any of the dates mentioned on the e-way bills. Scrutiny of GPS logs of the vehicles appearing on the e-way bills showed locations outside Delhi. This firm was a supplier and in business with AIIMS since many years,” said additional commissioner Singh. The officer said that in response to forged supply orders, the accused firm submitted only invoices and delivery challans without physically delivering the goods. “The receipts of goods were not found in the other registers of general store. Bills were raised by AIIMS staff and was approved without the knowledge of the authorised/competent officials of AIIMS. After getting these bills sanctioned, the money was transferred to the firm’s account,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/storekeeper-employee-at-delhi-aiims-eye-centre-held-for-fraud-101637863471099.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow crosses 50L mark in administering vaccine doses, urban pockets leading||LUCKNOW: With over 27,000 doses of Covid vaccine administered on Thursday, the state capital crossed the 50lakh mark in administering vaccine doses since January 16, when vaccination began in the country. The urban pockets of the state capital are leading in vaccination with a major chunk of vaccination. Statistics say urban vaccination centres have administered about 35% more doses than rural centres. Officials said many villagers got vaccine doses in urban vaccination centres when they visited city areas for some work. “We have but increased focus on villages as in some villages, vaccination coverage was found poor,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. Urban vaccination centres had administered over 30 lakh doses and rural centres about 20 lakh. Lucknow has an urban population of over 35 lakh and rural population of about 17 lakh. Dr Agrawal said, “In all, 25 mobile Covid vaccination vans have been deployed that visit villages to administer vaccine to the eligible. Vaccination coverage (first dose) is 87%, and we appeal all eligible people to get both their doses of Covid vaccine whenever due.” “Data revealed that over 32.24 lakh doses of Covid vaccine were administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age and 11.62 lakh doses to beneficiaries between 45 and 60 years while over 6.31 lakh doses were administered to beneficiaries above 60 years,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “No adverse reaction after vaccination is happening now. All myths have been cleared and eliminated. It is time for all to get vaccinated,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge, vaccination in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-crosses-50l-mark-in-administering-vaccine-doses-urban-pockets-leading-101637862810920.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Man gets death sentence for raping minor daughter for 2 years||Lucknow: A POCSO court in Bahraich district has awarded death sentence to a man for raping his minor daughter for two years. The victim’s brother testified against the father during hearing of the case in court. The victim’s mother had lodged an FIR on August 22 this year against her husband under the POCSO Act in Sujauli police station of Bahraich district. The fast track court completed the hearing in three months. Nitin Kumar Pandey, additional sessions judge, fast track court (I) POCSO Act, awarded death sentence to the father on November 23, terming his conduct as unforgivable and a serious crime. During hearing of the case, nine witnesses testified against the accused in court, including the victim’s brother and two neighbours. Sant Pratap Singh, government advocate, informed that the court found the accused guilty in all sections of the POCSO Act. “It is the father’s duty to protect the child. But in this case, the natural protector of the child, her father, became her biggest enemy. So, the court considered the case as rarest of the rare and awarded death sentence,” pointed out Singh. The judge also gave a new name to the victim so that her identify was not revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-gets-death-sentence-for-raping-minor-daughter-for-2-years-101637862450807.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Young woman raped in moving car, accused arrested||Agra A 21-year-old young woman from Kosi Kalan town of Mathura was raped in a moving car and later thrown on the highway somewhere near Kosi Kalan on Tuesday. The accused, from Palwal in Haryana, was arrested by Mathura police on Thursday. The victim was on her way back from Agra after giving an exam. She was given a lift by the accused, known to her through social media. Depressed by the incident, the victim consumed poison after medical examination on Wednesday and was admitted to hospital. As per police, the victim from Kosi Kalan had gone to Agra to appear in an exam and was waiting for conveyance on Tuesday evening when one Tejveer, known to her through social media, reached there and the victim got into his car to return to Kosi Kalan town. The accused, said to be an army man in his thirties, allegedly raped her in the moving car and then threw her on the highway near Kosi town of Mathura district. “A case has been registered against the accused Tejveer and driver Digambar who drove the car when Tejveer raped the girl. Tejveer has been arrested. The victim is undergoing treatment at KD Hospital in Mathura,” informed Sirish Chand, superintendent of police (rural), Mathura. The victim, who was taken for medical examination after registering of case on Wednesday, was very depressed after the incident and consumed poison on returning home. She was rushed to a private hospital and then shifted to KD Hospital in Mathura. Inspector general (Agra Range) Nachiketa Jha reached the hospital and interacted with her on Thursday. Police also recovered the car in which she was raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/young-woman-raped-in-moving-car-accused-arrested-101637862030764.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh: Our heads will always remain bowed before farmers||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said his government decided to concede the farmers’ demand for repeal of the farm laws as it wanted to avert the situation from turning unpleasant, adding that “our heads will always remain bowed before annadata (farmers).” This appears to be the first time when a senior BJP leader has spoken up about what led to the withdrawal of the three farm laws. Addressing a meeting of BJP booth presidents of the Avadh region in Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh, Rajnath Singh said despite explanations, when the farmers refused to relent, Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed large heartedness by announcing withdrawal of the farm laws. “I have been born to a farmers’ family and our party considers the farmers as god. One can just see how many times during the regime of Congress and other political parties, farmers were fired at. But we never wanted such a situation. The three farm bills were passed by Parliament but we decided that if the farmers were not ready to listen, let us agree to their demands. Our heads would always remain bowed before our annadatas (farmers),” he said. “In UP, innocent ‘kar sevaks’ were fired at during the Samajwadi Party rule. But, we can neither open fire on farmers nor on Ram bhakts,” Rajnath Singh said, pitching the BJP as a pro-farmer government ahead of the 2022 UP polls. He also referred to the Kisan Samman Nidhi of ₹6000 per annum that the Modi government has been providing to farmers as proof of the government’s pro-farmer tilt.“I was the chief minister when the then farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait decided to march till the chief minister’s office. The police officers wanted to stop them. But I said no, we won’t stop them and we allowed them to march till the chief minister’s office,” he said. Rajnath Singh, who had acted upon senior party leader Jaswant Singh for his book praising Jinnah, also slammed the Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for his remarks on the Pakistan founder. “Where was the need to bring in Jinnah in these elections? There was no need to bring in such a person who was responsible for the division of the country,” Rajnath said, adding that several Muslims have also differed with the SP chief’s remarks. “I wish to congratulate my Muslim brothers for disagreeing with the SP chief’s remarks as all of them agreed that Jinnah was responsible for the country’s partition,” Rajnath Singh said. Rajnath Singh spoke of his recent visit to Rezang La in the high Himalayas in Ladakh and said he decided to undertake the visit as a mark of respect to country’s brave soldiers who guard the borders at minus 20 degrees Celsius. “I had gone to inaugurate the war memorial at Rezang La in memory of those brave soldiers who had laid down their lives to protect the country. Vastly outnumbered, yet, they fought bravely and on coming to know of their bravery I ordered a grand war memorial in their memory,” Rajnath Singh said. “Just as soldiers are required to guard the country’s sovereignty, the BJP, too, is required to give good governance to the country,” he said, adding that he was confident of the party coming to power with a two-thirds majority in the 2022 UP polls. Rajnath Singh, who is a former BJP chief, also praised the Yogi Adityanath government in UP. “Today, there is fear among criminals and law and order was never so good. The government is practicing clean politics,” he said. “We are also running the government at the Centre and I challenge anyone to prove an iota of corruption,” he said.Reacting to Rajnath Singh’s remarks, Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh said, “The BJP is an expert at shifting the goalposts. We saw how after troubling the farmers, comparing them to terrorists and in fact doing everything it could to malign the farmers and their agitation, it finally withdrew the three black laws after realising that the farmers weren’t ready to budge. Yet, such is their politics that they are now positioning themselves as pro-farmers. As for Jinnah talk, why don’t BJP leaders consult their topmost leader Lal Krishna Advani and check out his views on him. The BJP’s credibility is so low that the farmers have refused to believe them until they withdraw the three farm laws in Parliament. Moreover, this government has still not given any assurance on law on MSP whereas we have already promised that when voted to power we would ensure that the kin of those farmers who died during the agitation are each given ₹25 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rajnath-singh-our-heads-will-always-remain-bowed-before-farmers-101637861970833.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Mixed reaction from parents; Pune schools seek smooth transition||PUNE As the state government has allowed the reopening of offline classes for Class 1 to 7 in urban areas from December 1, schools say that it is a short period and have insisted on a smooth transition for the students and parents and continuation of the hybrid teaching mode for a while.Parents also are perplexed as the paediatric vaccination hasn’t begun and the Covid-19 cases have been recording a spike in other countries.“I am not sure whether this is the right time to decide as paediatric vaccination hasn’t started. Also, what are the protocols for students coming from other countries? The picture would have been clearer in a month or two,” said Amol Bharati, a parent from the Sahakar nagar area.Deepali Hatekar, a parent in the Kothrud area, raised concerns over adherence to the Covid-19 protocols in the schools.“As a parent I want my son to go back to school but at the same time, we cannot ignore the risk factors. Students will have to eat lunch and use washrooms on the premises. Even in the pre-Covid era, we have seen parents send their kids to school even if they have a cough and cold. Such negligence can prove a lot hazardous in the pandemic. If kids, vaccination would have begun then we would have relief while sending them to schools,” said Deepali.Schools have also pointed out the challenges in following the Covid-19 preventive norms not only in the school premises but also while reaching the schools.“In the city, kids come to schools in a rickshaw and school bus where it is difficult to make them follow the social distancing norm. Also, it is a very difficult task to make the children keep their masks on for three to four hours,” said Bhausaheb Badade, headmaster MES Bal Shikshan Mandir school, Deccan Gymkhana.“Many families have shifted to their native places and arrangements would have to be made before those kids would be able to join the school,” he said.Sarika Babar, principal-director of Clara School in Hadapsar, said that the schools would have to follow the hybrid model of education for a while and a smooth transition is required to shift back to the offline education mode.“We have been receiving a mixed response from parents about sending kids to the schools. Also, many families are still out of town so online classes will also continue. The kids have lost the touch of getting educated in the classroom so we would have to give some time to pupils, parents and teachers to get used to the classroom routines,” said Babar.School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the SOPs would be updated in consultation with the paediatric task force as some of the students would be attending the physical classes for the first time.Babar said that in the initial period it is essential that the number of students in the classrooms is less.“That way teachers would be able to control the classroom. Also, it would help to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Babar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mixed-reaction-from-parents-pune-schools-seek-smooth-transition-101637860470704.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Couple sells infant to doctor for ₹1 lakh, trio booked||The Ram Nagar police have booked a doctor and a couple for selling an infant for ₹1 lakh. No one has been arrested so far in the case. The three were booked under section 80 and 81 (giving away child without proper adoption procedure) under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. According to police, the doctor allegedly convinced the couple to sell their new born child and offered to pay them ₹1 lakh. The couple initially accepted the offer; however, they backed out from the deal later on, and asked the doctor to return the child, the police said. The couple approached the Thane district department of women and child development, who registered a case with the Ram Nagar police with help of few social workers. A police officer said, “The woman (mother of child) identified as Puja Ahire, 28, and her husband Santosh Ahire, 30, are residents of Dombivli. They met homeopathic doctor, Ketan Sony, 34, when Puja was pregnant. Sony suggested that since they are poor, they can sell their child to some needy couple, who will take better care of the baby.” “On November 10, the woman delivered a baby boy. After that, they met the doctor and confirmed the deal of ₹1 lakh in exchange for their child. The couple handed over the baby to the doctor on November 15, near Ganpati temple of Dombivli and took the money,” the officer said. Senior police inspector, S Sandbhor said, “The couple again approached the doctor and asked him to return their child. However, the couple had used half of the amount. The doctor refused to return the baby, after which, the family approached the social workers and district women and child development department. We have booked all three of them and further investigation is on.” Dr Pallavi Jadhav, district women and child development department officer, along with other social workers helped the family get the baby. A police officer said, “We are checking all documents to investigate the allegation made by family and social workers. We are also probing if the doctor was involved in any of such dealings earlier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/couple-sells-infant-to-doctor-for-1-lakh-trio-booked-101637859871754.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Four members of dalit family murdered over property related dispute in Prayagraj||Bodies of four members of a dalit family, who were brutally murdered by unidentified miscreants apparently over a property related dispute around two days back, were recovered from their house in Mohanganj Gohri village under Phaphamau police station of trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj on Thursday, police said. SSP Sarvashreshtha Tripathi said bodies of Phulchandra Saroj aka Phule 50, wife Meenu Devi, 45, and son Shiv, 10, were found lying on cots in the courtyard while their 17-year-old daughter Sapna’s body was found in the inner room on the bed.Their kin alleged that the women might have been sexually assaulted. Tripathi said “Primary investigation suggests that they were attacked with sharp edged weapons. The bodies have been sent for autopsy and all angles are under investigation. The family had earlier lodged an FIR under SC/ST Act against some persons over a property related dispute and some suspects have been rounded up for questioning.” Phulchandra used to work as a painter. His brother Krishnachandra alleged that some local musclemen were harassing his brother and his family for some time and even assaulted his brother. Despite lodging two FIRs under SC/ST Act, police took no action. Meanwhile, police had to face the anger of villagers who demanded early arrest of the accused. IG Range Rakesh Singh visited the village and ordered suspension of SHO Phaphamau Ramkewal Patel following which the locals allowed the police to take the bodies for autopsy.Later in the evening, Krishnachandra gave a complaint to police naming some persons against whom Phulchandra had earlier lodged FIR. Circle Officer Soraon Sudhir Kumar said police lodged an FIR against Ravi Singh, Manish Singh and nine other persons in this connection.It is suspected that the miscreants entered the house after scaling the boundary wall and attacked the family while in their sleep. Police also found a blood-stained axe from the spot that is suspected to have been the crime weapon. The bodies were in decomposing state suggesting that they were killed around two days back. Locals informed police that no one in the village noticed the absence of Phulchandra and his family for two days until a local chaat seller experienced foul smell emanating from their house and informed other villagers. The locals found the main door opened and were shocked when they found the bodies lying in the courtyard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-members-of-dalit-family-murdered-over-property-related-dispute-in-prayagraj-101637859450858.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||IIT Roorkee alumni association to celebrate 175th year of its Alma mater in Jan ‘22||The Lucknow chapter of IIT Roorkee Alumni Association (IITRAA) to celebrate the 175th year of its Alma mater in January 2022 in Lucknow, said Anuj Varshneya, president of IITRAA during a press conference here on Thursday.He said, “It is a matter of immense pride that our nation is celebrating 75th year of Independence and at the same time. The University of Roorkee shall celebrate the completion of 175 years of its existence in 2021-2022.”President IITRAA, “The University of Roorkee, now the Indian Institute of Technology had a modest beginning when started as the college of engineering in 1847 and later turned into Thomason College of engineering in 1854, converted to the First Technical University of India in the year 1949.”On the occasion of the completion of 175 years of service to the nation, IITRAA to take a few initiatives like an agreement with Singapore based company for career counselling of students for better opportunities. Registration of life members with renowned medical and diagnostic centres for their health benefits is another such initiative.“Organising talk shows deliberated by renowned personalities, organising health camps for senior alumni and families, organising social services for the benefit of needy people are some of the other initiatives,” said Varshneya.Lucknow chapter is committed to adopting “Giving Back Culture” to our Alma mater and society, Anuj Varshneya, president, IITRAA, Lucknow Chapter Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iit-roorkee-alumni-association-to-celebrate-175th-year-of-its-alma-mater-in-jan-22-101637858490631.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi: 129 teams of PAC, UP police and QRTs to ensure foolproof security of KV Corridor||Twenty-one teams of armed Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), 102 teams of Uttar Pradesh police and several quick response teams (QRTs) will ensure foolproof security of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which is proposed to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13, commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh said on Thursday.Simultaneously, with the help of state-of-art CCTV cameras, security teams will keep an eye on the entire KV Corridor premises. KV corridor is almost ready, and finishing touches are underway.The commissioner of police on Thursday visited KV Corridor and fixed points of duty for PAC and UP police personnel.He said that 21 duty points were earmarked for the deployment of the PAC personnel teams. At each point, one section (Team) of PAC personnel equipped with arms will be deployed. These teams will secure the outer cordon.The company commanders of PAC will also remain available for duty.He said that UP police personnel will be posted at 102 points. PAC personnel and UP police cops will be deployed in three shifts of eight hours each. Smart ID cards will be issued to all the cops to be deployed at the KV corridor.“Sector officers and zonal officers will be posted above them to monitor and control the personnel posted at duty points,” Ganesh said.At the KV Corridor, many quick response teams will be deployed to deal with any emergency, added Ganesh.Monitoring of the entire premises will be done with the help of state-of-the-art CCTV cameras, he added.A standing order detailing the responsibilities of employees will be prepared for each duty point, he said adding that short-term training will also be given for good behaviour with the visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-129-teams-of-pac-up-police-and-qrts-to-ensure-foolproof-security-of-kv-corridor-101637858190438.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||ED attaches assets worth crores of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali's aide||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday attached assets worth over ₹3 crore of an arrested aide of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali.The agency said it provisionally attached immovable assets worth ₹3.75 crore of Saaed Khan in connection with a money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Khan, who is accused of misappropriating funds from a trust called 'Mahila Utkarsh Pratishthan', was arrested by the ED in September.Gawali, 48, is a sitting Lok Sabha member from the Yavatmal-Washim constituency in Maharashtra.The agency had earlier said Gawali criminally conspired to convert a trust into a private company through Khan by "forgery and fraud" for layering of about ₹18 crore funds.Saeed Khan is a close aide of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali. https://t.co/a0AG7PuFj6The ED had told a Mumbai court that its investigation suggested that misappropriation of funds to the tune of ₹18.18 crore and theft of ₹7 crore (cash) had been layered.The agency told the court that the trust filed for conversion into a Section 8 company by alleged fraudulent forgery of signatures of the management and documents from public institutions.The total assets of ₹69 crore in the book value (of the trust) were transferred to the newly formed Section 8 company limited, the agency told the court.The directors of this company, according to the ED, are Khan and Shalinitai Gawali, the mother of the Sena MP. Bhavana Gawali, along with the duo, is stated to be a member of this company.The ED counsel had claimed that Khan played an active role in forging documents and creating companies.Khan's lawyer opposed the ED argument, and said, "Let them (ED) show if any money has come to my account...there is nothing against me...I am targeted because I am affiliated to a state party."The ED case is based on an FIR registered by Risod police station in Washim district for cheating and criminal breach of trust.The agency had earlier conducted searches in this case at multiple premises in Yavatmal, Washim and Mumbai.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-attaches-assets-worth-crores-of-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-s-aide-101637857455427.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Sessions court refuses pre-arrest bail to jeweller||The sessions court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail application of the director of a popular jewellery chain in a cheating case registered by a Mulund-based jeweller for allegedly failing to clear dues of ₹6.57 crore. The additional session’s court judge, RM Sadrani rejected his plea, citing that his custodial interrogation was necessary to find out about the gold and diamond jewellery entrusted with him, which he had allegedly disposed of. According to the complainant Harsh Susania of Bhavi Jewellers, in October 2015, there was an agreement for making gold and diamond jewellery as per the requirement of the accused firm, which was to issue cheques for a period of not more than 30 days. Susania claimed that in 2018, cheques issued by the applicant started bouncing due to insufficient funds. At that time, the amount of ₹6.57 crores was outstanding, however, the firm acted contrary to their agreement and disposed of the jewellery, which was in breach of the agreement. Mulund police had registered a cheating case against the jewellery retail chain on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sessions-court-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-jeweller-101637857350389.html
25-11-2021||Pune||MSEDCL staff attacked for overnight power cut in Kondhwa, two held||PUNE The Pune police arrested two persons for allegedly attacking officials of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) for an overnight power cut in Kondhwa on Wednesday. The arrested persons have been identified as Dattatray Dhandekar (35) and Prathamesh Dhandekar (32) both residents of Dhandekar vasti in Yewalewadi, Kondhwa. The complainant has been identified as Sunil Patil (56) a resident of Ambegaon Budrukh, who works in the Somji branch of MSEDCL. The power supply in the Dhandekar vasti had allegedly been cut off since Tuesday night. The two men entered the MSEDCL office and started using abusive language and attacked an official identified as Krushna Gutte before attacking and pushing the complainant to the floor, according to the police. A case under Sections 353, 323, 504, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Harshada Dagde of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-staff-attacked-for-overnight-power-cut-in-kondhwa-two-held-101637856690404.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||80% of Class 8 students return to Thane Zilla Parishad schools||For more than a year, Nitesh Singh, a 14-year-old Class 8 student from a Zilla Parishad school in Bhiwandi, worked as a ragpicker and had lost all hopes of pursuing his favourite subject, Maths, or completing his education. Recently, when he met his old school teachers and learnt that his school was re-starting, his joy knew no bounds.Singh said, “I am the eldest among five siblings in my family and started working as a ragpicker since the lockdown to help my father, who lost his source of income. Initially, I was awaiting the reopening of schools. But, by December last year, I lost all hopes. I started teaching Maths to my younger siblings as I loved the subject. Now, with the schools reopening, I am happy to just stare at the blackboard and am eager to learn.”Thane Zilla Parishad Education Department informed that more than 80% of the students of Class 8 who had dropped out have returned to the schools from this week. Children narrated their lockdown experiences with their teachers and classmates. Most of them expressed that they were looking forward to returning to school and completing their education.Payal Saroj, a 16-year-old Class 8 student from another school in Bhiwandi, used to work as a cleaner in some of the godowns to fulfil the daily needs of the six members of her family. She said, “I will finally get to use paper, pen and colour chalks for drawing. I love to draw and like to read lessons in the classroom. I want to become an artist and the school will help me to become one. Teachers always used to guide me and I enrolled for the drawing exam too, but could not attempt because of lockdown. Now, I will apply again and practice more. I will have to continue my job, too, to help my family. At the same time, I want to get good marks in exams. This will encourage my siblings to do the same.”An officer from Zilla Parishad said, “All the Class 8 schools started on Monday and 80% of students joined on the first day enthusiastically. We are looking forward to improving the attendance by next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/80-of-class-8-students-return-to-thane-zilla-parishad-schools-101637855851856.html
25-11-2021||Other||Patiala mayor suspended; Capt’s grip on Royal City politics gets a jolt||Patiala In high drama inside the municipal corporation House on Thursday, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s grip on Patiala politics received a blow, with his protégé mayor Sanjiv Bittu losing the vote of the majority of the members. He has also been suspended. The loss of majority is a major blow for Patiala Royals, as Bittu was the only elected leader in the constituency, who had been supporting Amarinder, since the formation of the Capt’s new party, the Punjab Lok Congress.The House has 60 councillors, with 59 from the Congress. Most of them were given tickets on the recommendation of Patiala MP and Capt’s wife, Preneet Kaur. Of the total House strength of 63 (after including the three MLAs), 35 councillors voted against Bittu, while 25 voted in his mayor. Two members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) abstained from voting. This means that since losing his position as the CM, 35 councillors have shifted loyalty from Amarinder to the Congress party. “With the mayor losing the majority, he has been suspended. Senior deputy mayor Yoginderpal Singh Yogi will take charge of the post till the new mayor is elected,” said Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, who also voted against the mayor. He added that the new mayor will be elected soon and it will be a councillor, who has worked for the party.No provision of suspension, will challenge decision: AmarinderFormer CM Amarinder, however, claimed there was no provision of suspension in the law governing MCs. “Councillors moved a no-confidence motion, which was defeated as they didn’t get 42 votes (two-third) of the House strength. As the no-confidence motion was not passed, Sanjiv is still the mayor. If they indulge in any undemocratic way to remove Bittu as mayor, Punjab Lok Congress will knock the door of the high court to save democracy,” said Amarinder, who also voted. Earlier in the day, Amarinder led councillors of his group to the MC House from his residence Moti Bagh Palace in a bus. His convoy was stopped well short of the House, but he walked there to participate in proceedings. His supporters accused the police of picking up two of their members; but they were later releasing to attend the meeting. To avoid any poaching, Preneet had gathered 20-odd councillors at the New Moti Bagh Palace, the Royal Palace of her family, drawing the ire of the Congress high command, with All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Harish Chaudhary sending her a show-cause notice for indulging in anti-party activities, and siding with Amarinder instead of the party.“The Congress is the party of workers, not of any individual. This has been proven today,” said Harvinder Singh Nippy, a councillor from Amarinder’s constituency, who has left his camp and now sided with the Congress.BOX PLEASEPolice refuse entry to Capt’s daughterTempers ran high after police refused entry to senior Congress leaders, including Jai Inder Kaur, daughter of Amarinder. She was seen sitting on stairs outside the main entry to the MC office. Captain’s advisers were also not allowed to accompany him inside the MC complex, with a large police force on hand to maintain law and order. For some time, the situation turned tense when supporters of both groups gathered outside the complex and started sloganeering against each other. No untoward incident was, however, reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-mayor-suspended-capt-s-grip-on-royal-city-politics-gets-a-jolt-101637855790251.html
25-11-2021||Other||Delhi HC fixes hearing of plea seeking deregistration of SAD||Hoshiarpur Allowing the application of Hoshiarpur-based social activist Balwant Singh Khera for urgent hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by him, seeking directions to the Election Commission (EC) to set aside the registration of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) as a political party, the Delhi high court on Thursday fixed the hearing for February 25, 2022.The matter came up before the bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh during which Khera’s counsel Indira Unniayar argued that a matter of urgent public interest was being adjourned repeatedly, whereas in view of the upcoming elections in Punjab and the ill health of the petitioner who had been fighting the case since 2004, it needed an urgent hearing.She urged that unless this matter was duly considered and decided in accordance with the settled law in an expeditious manner well before the next elections in Punjab, the SAD which had allegedly obtained its registration through forgery, would yet again, get the freedom to participate in elections.In his PIL, Khera has alleged that the SAD gave fraudulent undertaking of ‘secularism’ to the ECI to seek registration as political party whereas it openly aligned with one religion and contested gurdwara elections. Unninayar informed the court that the record pertaining to the case had been complete since 2018, yet it was pending for adjudication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-fixes-hearing-of-plea-seeking-deregistration-of-sad-101637855370140.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||SP will give more relief than people can imagine: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said his party will give more relief to people than they could expect or imagine once it forms the government in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.He was addressing his first public rally in Lucknow in the run-up to the 2022 UP assembly polls with the slogan “BhaJaPa hatao, pradesh bachao(oust BJP, save UP)”. The SP’s alliance partner Janwadi Party (Socialist) organised the rally at Ramabai Ambedkar Ground .“We will give more relief to people than they could expect or imagine — from price rise, unemployment, etc,” Akhilesh Yadav said.He said that BJP was headed for defeat in the state and the SP will have a historic victory in the elections.“This BJP government only helps industrialists and capitalists, and metes out step-motherly treatment to the poor and the youth. The quality of education has nosedived under the BJP government. And even if the youth manage to complete their education, then there is a dead end when it comes to employment,” the former chief minister said.Akhilesh Yadav also said: “The BJP government proclaims itself as dumdaar sarkar (powerful government). Then, tell me what did this government do for farmers? It had said that it will double the farmers’ income; it failed. While the reality is you farmers are not able to sell your paddy, you are not getting DAP (a fertilizer), and other fertilizers. Diesel-petrol prices and power tariff shot up like never before. When diesel-petrol prices go up, the prices of commodities automatically shoot up.”He described the BJP regime in the state as of one colour (saffron). “We are taking all colours (different parties and communities) along,” he said.“We brought together all communities and various political parties. We have allied with the SBSP (Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party), Mahan Dal, Apna Dal (Krishna Patel) and you (Janwadi Party-S). We have made an ensemble of different sections of society and the political parties and arranged them in a beautiful bouquet,” he said.Referring to the Janwadi Party (S) national president Sanjay Singh Chauhan’s speech, Akhilesh said that the new SP government will get a caste census, so that backward classes, including Chauhans, can get social justice as per their numbers in the population. Akhilesh Yadav said that the government was taking the three new farms laws back as, otherwise, the farmers would not allow them (BJP leaders) in their villages.“But I say that farmers will continue their agitation till (legal guarantee) on MSP (minimum support price) for crops is introduced. Till farmers get MSP, the SP will continue to support their agitation,” he said.In response, UP BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava.said, “The Jinnah-loving Samajwadi Party chief knows his party’s fate in UP. He is talking more in desperation than anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-will-give-more-relief-than-people-can-imagine-akhilesh-yadav-101637855130145.html
25-11-2021||Patna||Four jail employees suspended after inmate’s murder||Four jail employees, including the jailor of Patna’s Phulwarisharif Jail, have been suspended for negligence of duty following the murder of an inmate inside the premises on Monday, officials said. The 20-year-old undertrial, Tuntun Rai, was allegedly attacked with scissors by another inmate, Mohammad Munna. Rai was rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where doctors declared him brought dead. After the incident, Munna was shifted to Beur Central Jail, police said.Inspector General (Prisons) Mithilesh Mishra on Thursday said that jailor Arvind Kumar, chief head warden Chandradeo Singh, warden Mushtaq Hasan and tailor Shyamdeo Tanti have been suspended for negligence of duty after an inquiry. “More jail officials will face action. An inmate getting hold of scissors is a security lapse,” he said.A murder case has been lodged at the Airport police station against the accused, who is currently serving a jail term for the murder of his cousin. According to preliminary investigation, the reason behind Monday’s incident is said to be an altercation which took place between the victim and the accused over fetching water from a hand pump on Sunday. Arun Kumar, station house officer of the Airport police station, said scissors used in the crime would be sent to the forensic laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/four-jail-employees-suspended-after-inmate-s-murder-101637854710190.html
25-11-2021||Pune||School buses in Pune unlikely to start operations from December 1||PUNE Even as schools are set to reopen for offline classes for Class 1 to 7 from December 1, the Pune bus owners’ association is uncertain about starting service from the first week as standard operating procedure (SOP) has not been announced by the government for drivers and helpers.“We have not got any SOP from the government and until schools do not start with full attendance, we cannot bring buses on roads. Once the school decides how it will be running its operation, only then the bus association can decide on starting operation,” said Kiran Desai, secretary of Pune bus owners’ association.For the last 20 months, bus drivers have been left with no options but to keep buses standing in one place.“We were told by Anil Parab, transport minister of Maharashtra, that we will be excluded from paying road tax. It was declared, but no Government Resolution (GR) was passed,” added Desai.The drivers are also not clear on what Covid-19 vaccination norms will be, even if school buses start plying.“We need clarity on the vaccination SOP for school bus drivers,” added Desai.Anil Patil, a school bus driver, said, “I will continue to sell vegetables and have given my bus on rent. I am not sure if I will return to school bus duty.”Another school bus driver Riya Shaik, said, “I had started working as a food delivery boy – and will continue that unless school starts with full capacity.”Box:School buses and van in Pune/Pimpri-Chinchwad: 8,000Drivers and helpers: 16,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/school-buses-in-pune-unlikely-to-start-operations-from-december-1-101637854350186.html
25-11-2021||Other||SHO accused of assaulting judge removed||PATNA The police officer accused of assaulting a judge in Bihar’s Madhubani district earlier this month has been removed from the post of station house officer, police said on Thursday. Madhubani’s superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satyaprakash has ordered the removal of sub-inspector (SI) Gopal Krishna from the post of the SHO of Ghoghardiha police station, police sources said.Krishna and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma have been accused by additional district judge Avinash Kumar of assaulting him in his official chamber at Jhanjharpur court premises on November 18.Both policemen are currently undergoing treatment at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. They were allegedly thrashed outside the chamber of ADJ after the incident. Meanwhile, Krishna has also recorded his statement before the police and sought to lodge an FIR (first information report) against three persons, including the ADJ and a junior engineer of Jhanjharpur Nagar panchayat, Deepak Raj. The statement was sent to Patna High Court by Madhubani district judge for its consent, in line with the Supreme Court order on August 14, 2002, which said “police could register FIRs against judicial officers for criminal conduct only with the prior consent of the Chief Justices of the concerned high courts”. In a related development, the investigation officer in the case of alleged assault on the judge, Arvind Kumar, has sought CCTV footage from the Jhanjharpur court and permission for forensic tests for sub-inspector Sharma’s police uniform, which was found blood-stained after the incident. “The court has granted its permission,” a police officer said on the condition of anonymity. More than 12 lawyers have recorded their statements before the police in the case, which is to be heard by the Patna High Court next on November 29. Meanwhile, member of Bihar Bar Council, Dinanath Yadav, also visited the spot and enquired about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-accused-of-assaulting-judge-removed-101637854171501.html
25-11-2021||Other||Farmers moving to Tikri, Singhu to mark stir of anniv find clear path||Sangrur/Rohtak To mark the completion of one year of farmer agitation against the three agriculture laws, farmers in their numbers, including women, hailing from Sangrur, Malerkotla, Barnala and Ludhiana districts under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta-Ugrahan) moved to Delhi’s Tikri border via Khanauri border of Sangrur on Thursday. They marched in tractor trolleys, jeeps and any other vehicle they could find, while raising slogans against the Centre. Residents of Data Singh Wala village in Haryana served langar to farmers marching to Delhi. “We have completed one year at the borders of Delhi and farmers are happy that they have defeated Narendra Modi. We are going to hold a historic gathering at the Tikri border on the first anniversary of the protest and will continue the sit-in until the Minimum Support Price (MSP) is turned into a legal right,” said Jagtar Singh Kalajhar, a state leader of the Ugrahan group. Hundreds of farmers moved to the Singhu border under the banner of Kirti Kisan Union from Mantuana Sahib. “Farmers are moving to Delhi in massive numbers and the agitation will continue till the government gives compensation to families of deceased farmers and nullifies fines imposed on farmers under the Pollution Act,” said Bhupinder Longowal, state committee member, Kirti Kisan Union.As the outflux of farmers who started early started reaching Singhu and Tikri borders, Haryana villagers organised langar for farmers from Punjab, who entered through Shambu, Khanauri, Dabwali and other borders. Last year, police had erected heavy barricades to stop their entry; this time, they had a clear path. Groups of farmers’ carrying tractors, trucks, jeeps and cars entered Haryana on Thursday and received a rousing welcome from their brethren in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar and Jind. Gurdeep Singh, of Punjab’s Muktsar district, said, “Last year, we had started a march against the three farm laws and for legal guarantee on MSP. Last year, the Haryana government welcomed us with sticks, boulders placed on roads, heavy barricades and FIRs. Now, the path is clear. We have sown our wheat crop and will continue to stay at Delhi borders until our other demands are not met.”50,000 farmers expected to take Patiala-Jind-Delhi routeJind BKU district president Azad Palwa, said they have arranged food and accommodation for Punjab farmers. “Farmers from Jind will start a march towards Delhi tomorrow. We are expecting over 50,000 farmers from Patiala-Jind-Delhi highway to reach the Tikri border,” he added. A large number of farmers from Punjab reached Bahadurgarh railway station via train to participate in the one-year.Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Inderjit Singh said, “We hope that the government will accept out demands. We will continue our protest until our other demands, including guarantee on the MSP, amendment in the Electricity Act and roll-back of air pollution bill are met. Compensation must be given to families of deceased farmers, jobs to the next of their kin, cancellation of FIRs registered against farmers and action the union minister in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-moving-to-tikri-singhu-to-mark-stir-of-anniv-find-clear-path-101637854170183.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Man arrested for molesting 8-year-old in Chikhali||PUNE Officials of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a man for molesting an eight-year-old girl while he was giving her a haircut at a salon in Chikhali on Wednesday.A complaint was lodged by the girl’s mother.The child was sitting in a chair to get a haircut when the man touched her inappropriately several times. The girl told her mother who informed the police.According to a statement from the officials of the Chikhali police station, the child visited the salon with her grandmother when the incident took place.“The accused has been remanded to judicial custody by the court,” said senior police inspector Satish Mane of Chikhali police station.A case under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 has been registered at Chikhali police station. Police sub-inspector DS Mundkar is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-molesting-8-year-old-in-chikhali-101637853990072.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Pune man duped of ₹4.19 lakh on false assurance of job in the UK||PUNE Online fraudsters allegedly duped a city-based 46-year-old man to the tune of ₹4.19 lakh on false assurance of providing him with a job for a managerial position at a hotel in the United Kingdom.The man was made to pay money through various bank transactions for around five months starting February this year before he realised that he was being duped, police said on Thursday. A complaint has been lodged by the man who resides in Wanowrie. According to the police, the man received a job prospect email in February. The complainant said the email was sent from crowneplazarecruitment@gmail.com. The sender of the email claimed to be an official working at Crowne Plaza Hotels and Resorts, Liverpool Airport, Speke Aerodrome, Speke Rd, Liverpool in the United Kingdom. A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(d) and 66(c) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-duped-of-4-19-lakh-on-false-assurance-of-job-in-the-uk-101637853690063.html
25-11-2021||Ranchi||Gun racket: BSF jawan posted in Punjab, four others in J’khand ATS net||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan posted in Punjab and four others, including a retired BSF head constable, have been arrested by the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of Jharkhand Police during raids in multiple states for allegedly stealing and supplying ammunition to interstate gangs and Maoists, the police said on Thursday. Police claimed to have recovered around 9,000 rounds of ammunition, semi-automatic pistols, magazines, detonators and empty shells from different locations during its raids in Bihar, Punjab and Maharashtra, which began a fortnight ago after the arrest of a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constable in Jharkhand who allegedly supplied arms and ammunition to Maoists.During the raids, 8304 rounds of ammunition, empty shells, detonator and magazines were recovered from the THQ Campus of the 116 Battalion of the BSF in Ferozpur (Punjab), while 909 rounds were recovered from a gang member in Bihar and 14 semi-automatic pistols and magazines seized in Maharashtra. The monetary value of the total haul would run into several crores of rupees as each ammunition sell for around ₹700 in the illegal market, sources said. Earlier this month, Jharkhand ATS had arrested a CRPF jawan and three others in Bihar and Jharkhand and recovered 450 rounds of ammunition of 5.6 mm used in Insas rifles. So far, nine people have been arrested in the crackdown, including BSF constable Kartik Behra, who hails from Sraikela Kharsawan district of Jharkhand and is currently posted as Kot (armoury) in-charge at the paramilitary’s station at Ferozpur, CRPF jawan Avinash Kumar from Gaya in Bihar and retired BSF constable Arun Singh from Patna, police said. AV Homkar, Inspector General (Operations), said, “We have several leads after these arrests. We are working on them and have shared inputs with other agencies as well. Jharkhand ATS has been able to crack down on this syndicate with pan-India network with help from police of other states and BSF officials.”Officials said the ammunition recovered from the BSF jawans in Ferozpur and Patna were pilfered from the force’s armoury. Sharing details, ATS superintendent of police, Prashant Anand, said the arrests were made following interrogation of the arrested CRPF jawan and the leads gathered thereafter. “Retired BSF constable Arun Singh was arrested from Patna on November 16-17 and ammunition recovered with help of the Bihar Police. Following further leads, Kartik Behra was arrested from Ferozpur and searches at the THQ Campus with help of BSF officers led to the recovery of a huge cache of ammunitions. In a separate raid in Buldhana district in Maharashtra, three persons were arrested and semi-automatic pistols and magazines recovered from them. These pistols were manufactured at illegal gun manufacturing units said to be operational on Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border,” said Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/gun-racket-bsf-jawan-posted-in-punjab-four-others-in-j-khand-ats-net-101637853511094.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Change in ring road alignment to cost MSRDC an additional Rs500 crore||PUNE The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has submitted two feasibility reports to change the alignment of the proposed ring road in the eastern and western parts in Pune district. The proposed changes to the alignment are likely to add an additional financial burden of approximately Rs500 crore to the budget, officials from MSRDC said. According to senior officials, two feasibility reports have been submitted to the state government and approval is awaited. Earlier, on September 6, state government had approved Rs26,831.21 crore for the Pune ring road project, to be constructed by MSRDC, including construction and land acquisition costs. Changes in the alignment of the upcoming 170-km long ring road are proposed in the eastern and western part of the project near Bhandara Dongar (hill) and in the Kelawade village in Bhor tehsil, respectively.The initial plan for the ring road to pass through the Bhandara Dongar has now been dropped and an assessment has been made to shift the route of the ring road from the base of the hill. In Kelawade, there was a strong demand to avoid a route through agricultural lands and shift it through barren lands. According to officials both of these changes, if approved, would likely cost approximately Rs500 crore, collectively. “We have sent the feasibility reports. Currently we are focusing on completing the land measurement procedures in the western part. We aim to complete it by Jan 4, 2022, and then the procedure to float the tenders will be initiated,” said Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC. Land measurement of the western part is almost complete. In the eastern part, land measurement in 10 of 46 villages has been completed so far. Of Rs26,831.21 crore approved by the state government, Rs12,175.97 crore has been allocated for the western part of the ring road, while Rs14,655.24 crore has been allocated for the eastern side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/change-in-ring-road-alignment-to-cost-msrdc-an-additional-rs500-crore-101637853509831.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||11 districts record higher than Maharashtra’s average Covid weekly cases||As many as 11 districts in Maharashtra recorded a weekly positivity rate that’s higher than the state average of 1.02%. The districts having high positivity rates include Akola (2.77%), Amravati (2.56%), Buldhana (2.33%), Sindhudurg (2.21%), Pune (2.07%), Beed (1.79%), Nashik (1.87%), Solapur (1.39%), Palghar (1.34%), Ahmednagar (1.31%) and Sangli (1.09%).However, the officials informed that none of these districts has a positivity rate above 5 per cent, which indicates that the Covid-19 virus is under control.Assuring the same, the state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “There has been a decline in the overall positivity rate and since there are no districts above 5% positivity rates, it shows the situation is under control.” Dr Awate further added, “We are always focussing on those districts showing high positivity rates and taking steps to bring down the numbers.”Maharashtra has been seeing a decline in the number of new as well as active cases. Currently, the state stands second in terms of active cases after Kerala.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 848 Covid-19 new cases with 50 deaths.Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 174 with four deaths thus bringing its total death toll to 16,319. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 66,33,105.There were 95,497 tests done on Thursday while the number of recoveries clocked to 974. There are currently 9187 active patients across the state of which Mumbai tops with 2525 patients followed by Pune and Ahmednagar with 1982 and 1068 active cases respectively.The death toll has now reached 1,40,857 with Pune leading with 19,694 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,319 and Thane with 11,558.Professor of medicine at Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital Dr Wiqar Shaikh cautions that a third wave may hit next year if steps aren’t taken to control the cases. “In immunological terms, this is the thick tail of the second wave which has delayed the third wave. The history of pandemics has shown that there will be multiple waves and hence the third will come next year. The real challenge is to mitigate the effects of the third wave,” said Dr Shaikh. He cited Europe which is witnessing the fourth wave which he cites as a disaster as there has been a surge in cases as well as deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11-districts-record-higher-than-maharashtra-s-average-covid-weekly-cases-101637853392098.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai, parts of Thane faced emergency power cut on Thursday||Due to excess load on State Load Despatch Centre (SLDC), Kalwa, there was an emergency power cut across Navi Mumbai and a few parts of Thane for around an hour or two on Thursday morning.“More demand by Mumbai region due to increased Air Conditioner load owing to heat and increased load on Talegaon-Kharghar and Talegaon-Kalwa lines, Load Trimming Scheme (LTS) was enabled. LTS is a feature in the power grid to save the grid from blackout. It is an automatic feature where sensing threat to the grid, LTS operates automatically just like fuse or breaker devices in our household electrical and electronics equipment,” Dinesh Waghmare, Chairman and MD, Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MAHATRANSCO).The average daily consumption for Mumbai is 2,700MW. On Wednesday and Thursday, the demand from Mumbai was around 3,095MW and 3,200MW, respectively. This increased the load on the Talegaon-Kalwa 400 KV line.“Hence, to reduce the load, the smaller lines took an emergency load shedding, thus reducing the load on the Talegaon-Kalwa line,” a TRANSCO PRO said. With a few hours of load shedding, the morning online schools and online work from home were disrupted for many in Navi Mumbai. Class 6 student, Saarah Munshi of Nerul, missed her regular school due to the power outage. “As soon as I sat before the computer for the school, the power went off and I could not attend the school. Later, I got to know that all my friends faced the same issue and hence I understood that the classes would have been cancelled,” Munshi said.Reema Kapoor, an IT professional from Sanpada, had an online meeting with her client when the power went off. “I later switched on my mobile data to finish the call. The power was restored after an hour or so. If not, the work would have been badly affected,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-parts-of-thane-faced-emergency-power-cut-on-thursday-101637852970572.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Lotus Lake water in Nerul has high amount of required minerals for the lotuses to bloom again, says expert||Environment activists following up on the condition of the Lotus Lake in Nerul have recently conducted a water quality test to understand if it’s healthy enough for the lotus to bloom again.To understand the contamination level and to compare the quality, the activists also collected water from Lotus Lake in Belapur’s Artist Village as well as from a regular tap and tested them.The Total Dissolved Solid (TDS) and pH (Potential hydrogen) levels of the water were tested by a former ISRO scientist, Jagdish Math, based out of Seawoods. It was concluded in the report that the pH value of Lotus Lake in Nerul was lower than the other water samples. This meant that the Lotus Lake had become acidic due to the invasive species in the lake and fertilizers due to Chestnut Plantation. Higher value of TDS at Lotus Lake in Nerul, however, shows that the water still has a high amount of required minerals that gives a hope for faster rejuvenation.“I do not think anything can stop the growth of the lotus in the lake, except for other species of water plants. The water is good enough for the growth of lotus,” Math said.After getting the waters tested, the activists have decided to put the seeds of lotus in the lake but the problem now is that of the water hyacinth growing in the lake.“The water quality is fine, only hyacinth seems to be a problem. If this is removed, the lotus can bloom in the pond as before. To keep the lake clean and safe, the cooperation of the local people is necessary. We will try to plant lotus plants and lotus seeds as well before rain starts,” Dharmesh Barai from Team Environment Life said.The greens will now soon meet Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner requesting to help them get the lake cleaned following which its beauty can be restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lotus-lake-water-in-nerul-has-high-amount-of-required-minerals-for-the-lotuses-to-bloom-again-says-expert-101637851414784.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds death sentence of 30-year-old Thane man for raping, killing 3-year-old||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday confirmed the death sentence of a Thane man for raping and brutally murdering a three-year-old girl eight years ago. “The act of the accused is gruesome and is committed in a diabolic manner,” said the division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Prithviraj Chavan, while confirming capital punishment for 30-year-old Ramkirat Munilal Goud, a resident of Anand Nagar slum on Ghodbunder Road. “It is a heinous offence. It is unimaginable that a cheerful, frolicking child enjoying with her pet would provoke the feelings of lust in a man who is a father of two daughters and a son,” said the bench and concluded that the perversity in the mind of the accused was apparent on the face of the record. According to the prosecution, the incident took place on September 30, 2013, when the child was playing outside her house in Thane with her pet dog. The girl went missing from the spot, following which her parents search in the area. They found the dog tied in a nearby chawl, but could not find the girl. Eventually, on October 2, her body was found thrown in a mud pond in the vicinity. The autopsy had revealed that the girl had a fatal head injury. On October 3, the police arrested Goud and booked him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, for raping and murdering the child. On March 8, 2019, a special Pocso court in Thane convicted him on the basis of circumstantial evidence and sentenced him to death. The high court on Thursday upheld his conviction and confirmed the capital punishment, observing that the autopsy revealed that the child had been brutally sexually assaulted before she was murdered. The cause of death was “death due to head injury with extensive genital injuries.” The bench accepted the argument of additional public prosecutor Mankunwar Deshmukh that the act committed by the accused was gruesome and revolted human conscience, and the brutality itself showed that the question of any other sentence except death penalty was unquestionably foreclosed. The court observed, “In the present case, looking at the monstrous act of the convict, it is apparent that the appellant had not, for a moment thought of the precious life of the child. It did not strike him for a moment that he himself happens to be a father of two daughters. The crime smacks of degradation of a girl child, depravity and perversity of his mind. The child was sexually assaulted in barbaric and inhuman manner. It is diabolic in nature and thereafter, it was a brutal murder which makes it the rarest of rare case.” “The act of rape and the manner in which the child was murdered and abandoned in the muddy pond invites indignation and abhorrence. Hence, the death penalty awarded to the accused deserves to be confirmed,” the bench added. Convict on death row freed Meanwhile, the bench on Thursday acquitted Rahimuddin Shaikh, a convict sentenced to death sentence for raping two women and killing one of them at Belapur in Navi Mumbai in 2012. The bench allowed Shaikh’s appeal, observing that the prosecution had failed to prove his role in the offence of murdering a rag picker and injuring another after raping both of them. He was given the benefit of doubt and was acquitted of all charges levelled against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-death-sentence-of-30-year-old-thane-man-for-raping-killing-3yearold-101637850809592.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan MSRTC seeks police help to clear depot of agitators||Following continuous agitation by the staff of Maharashtra State Regional Transport Corporation (MSRTC), the Kalyan MSRTC has written to the Mahatma Phule police to help clear the depot premises of the agitators as they stop the employees who want to resume their work.“Due to the ongoing strike, the agitators are present at the entrance of the depot and stop those who are willing to resume work. In order to stop this, we have requested the police to help us in controlling the situation by not allowing the protest at the depot premises and take legal action,” said Vijay Gaikwad, depot manager, Kalyan MSRTC.Following continuous agitation by MSRTC employees, the Kalyan MSRTC has suspended 27 of them for not resuming work despite several warnings. The MSRTC employees across the state have been agitating since October 27 demanding merger of the undertaking with the state government that would give them better salary and greater job security. “The state transport minister has already announced a salary hike and also has urged to withdraw the strike. He has also warned the workers to join the work or face action. However, the unions are still agitating and are stopping many of the employees who want to resume work,” added Gaikwad.“We are yet to take a decision on this requirement. Based on the directions from the senior authorities, a decision will be taken,” said an officer of Mahatma Phule police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-msrtc-seeks-police-help-to-clear-depot-of-agitators-101637850092240.html
25-11-2021||Bhopal||Thakur women should be dragged out of their homes... to ensure equality: MP minister||Madhya Pradesh minister Bisahulal Singh recently said certain upper caste communities kept their women confined to their homes and such women “should dragged out” and made to work in society to ensure equality.In a clip tweeted by news agency ANI, Singh, a leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was heard targeting upper caste groups such as those with surnames ‘Thakur’ and ‘Thakar’ and said their “kept their women confined to their homes and did not allow them to work outside”.“Thakur-Thakar (upper castes) keep their women confined to their homes and do not allow them to work in society. Women of Thakurs and other big groups should be dragged out of their homes and made to work in society to ensure equality,” the food and civil supplies minister was heard saying in the video.#WATCH | Thakur-thakar (upper castes) keep their women confined to their homes & don't allow them to work in society. Women of Thakurs&other big people should be dragged out of their homes & made to work in society to ensure equality: MP Minister Bisahulal Singh in Anuppur(24.11) pic.twitter.com/46962n0PujThe minister reportedly made the remarks during his address as the chief guest at an awards ceremony on Wednesday in Madhya Pradesh's Anuppur city.Singh is the latest among a string of sexist comments made by ruling party leaders in recent times.In October, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said a “lot of modern women want to remain single” and “if they get married they don’t want to give birth”.“I am sorry to say this. A lot of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they get married, they don’t want to give birth, they want surrogacy. So, there is a paradigm shift in our thinking which is not good,” the minister said during the World Mental Health Day at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru.When called out over the misogynist comment, the health minister said it was based on a survey. While stating that he was a proud father of a daughter and as a trained doctor himself, he said he understood the sensitivities around women and mental health issues. “My statement about the younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is also based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey shows that, among millennials, 19 per cent are not interested in either children or marriage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/thakur-women-should-be-dragged-out-of-their-homes-to-ensure-equality-mp-minister-101637849411860.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||No guards yet in women compartments on Uran railway corridor||Three years after the Nerul-Belapur-Kharkopar line – the first phase of the Uran railway corridor – is operational, there are still no guards in the women’s compartments of these trains.The Government Railway Police (GRP) cited insufficient manpower as the main hurdle in providing guards on this line.The officials from the local police stations like NRI and Nhava Sheva, though, patrol the railway stations in the mornings and at nights, unlike GRP, they do not provide guards in the women compartments.Presently, the central railway (CR) is operating 20 trains between Kharkopar and Nerul, and an equal number between Kharkopar and Belapur daily.Joyita Banerjee, a 35-year-old resident of Ulwe, said, “As this line has only two stations, the trains are mostly empty in the mornings and evenings. On several occasions, I was the only commuter in the ladies’ compartment and it was really scary to travel alone. Though no major crime has taken place here so far, the possibility of the same cannot be ruled out. The authorities concerned should take this matter seriously and do something about it soon.”Sushmita Mane, a 28-year-old resident of Ulwe, added, “Both the stations on this line are at deserted places and autos are also not easily available. When I travel alone late in the evening, I call my husband or a family member to pick me up from the station.”Ravindra Patil, senior inspector of NRI police station, said, “Our officials keep patrolling near the station and along the tracks to keep the area under check. With limited resources, we too cannot do more than that.”A senior GRP official said, “The issue is under consideration and a decision about providing guards in the compartments will be taken soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-guards-yet-in-women-compartments-on-uran-railway-corridor-101637849552701.html
25-11-2021||Dehradun||After 20 months, vehicular traffic resumes on Indo-Nepal border in Champawat||Movement of vehicular traffic has resumed at the Indo-Nepal border between Banbasa of Champawat district in Uttarakhand and Mahendra Nagar of western Nepal from Wednesday evening. It had been stopped in March 2020 after the Indo-Nepal border was sealed in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19. “Vehicular traffic has resumed on Wednesday evening after the Nepal administration’s permission between Banbasa and Mahendra Nagar. Vehicle owners will have to show Nepalese authorities either a RT-PCR report or double vaccination certificates,” said Indra Singh, in-charge, immigration check-post, Banbasa.The international border had been sealed on March 23, 2020 from both sides in a bid to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. Later, Indian authorities had permitted Nepalese citizen to cross the border in their vehicles but Nepalese authorities continued with the ban for Indian citizens and their vehicles. A few months ago, Nepalese authorities had allowed Indians to enter their side with certain SOP in place but the ban on vehicles remained. On October 30, Indo-Nepal friendly bus services also resumed after 19 months between Mahendra Nagar and Delhi. Traders of Banbasa have been demanding that the Nepalese administration allow vehicular traffic to Mahindra Nagar. They requested Ram Prasad Subedi, charge d’affaires in the Nepalese embassy in India about permission when he visited Banbasa on Saturday. A delegation of traders also visited Mahendra Nagar and met Nepalese authorities along with Nepalese traders about the issue. The Nepalese administration opened its border for Indian vehicles on Wednesday evening but owners will have to show a RT-PCR report or a double vaccination certificate. Vehicle owners will be allowed up to Mahendra Nagar only, a city of western Nepal. For further onward journey they will have to be registered with the Nepal government’s portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-20-months-vehicular-traffic-resumes-on-indo-nepal-border-in-champawat-101637847871203.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Kathak is not just a dance, yeh ishwar ki aradhana hai: Pt Birju Maharaj||Pandemic kept Padma Vibhushan Pt Birju Maharaj far from Lucknow for quite some time. The kathak legend however recently made his first appearance in his hometown.“It was after a stretch of two years I stepped out from airport and I was absolutely determined that I will resume my journey from Lucknow instead of any other place in the world. I was born and brought up here and the aangan where I spent my childhood is now a museum. All those memories are very fresh in my mind! Whenever I reach here, first thing I do is — is bhoomi ko pranam karta hoon,” says the maestro expressing his love for the city. The exponent of Lucknow Kalka-Bindadin Gharana, says, “It’s my majboori that I am stuck in New Delhi but if the state government comes up with anything where I can contribute then I will like to spend my final days here. I have also spoken to the chief minister about it.” The maestro also visited Kalka Bindadin Deohri in Golaganj area where he has grown up and is now a museum run by the government. He proposed that a place should come up there where musical baithaks can be held and that he can be part of. The choreographer of songs like Jagave saari raina (Dedh Ishqiya and Kaahe chedi mohe (Devdas) says, “I want kids to understand that kathak is not just a dance to entertain but ishwar ki aradhana hai yeh, with every step you get closer to god. Mirabai and others have impressed God by instruments like iktara and kartal while we use ghungroo to evoke the blessings. This way, I can spend more time here and guide youths.” His six generations have lived here and he also shares a special bond with Varanasi as well. “We hail from Handiya (Prayagraj) but have lived here while Varanasi is home of in-laws. I am divided between both the cities. Girija Devi’s guru Shri Chand Misra was my father-in-law and my entire marriage was helmed by her only. I wish Beneras ki tarah mera Lucknow bhi saja diya jaaye…” He feels more should be done for legendary artistes. “Like abroad why not place statues and allocate roads in the name of Pt Ravi Shankar, Maharaj Bindadin and Kalka Maharaj as people will this way remember our rich heritage.” During this visit he did not perform but the audience got to witness a different side of him when he sung Sanwara Giridhar more man bhaaye re… which he had penned followed by thumri Mohe chedo na penned by grandfather Pt Bindadin Maharaj. The maestro felicitated The Uttar Pradesh Sangeet Natak Academy organised an event to felicitate Pt Birju Maharaj for his rich contribution in the field of classical dance. Minister Neelkanth Tiwari, in presence of senior chief secretary culture Mukesh Kumar Meshram, folk artiste Malini Awasthi, kathak artiste Sashwati Sen and UPSNA secretary Tarun Raj felicitated the kathak legend. The cultural event opened with solo performance by Aryav Anand. It was followed by a grand kathak ballet by Namami Ramam what was concepulised and directed by Surabhi Shukla. She along with Shruti Sharma, Neeta Joshi, Priyam Yadav, Aditi Jaiswal and others performers of Kathak Kendra. They presented various aspects from the life of Lord Ram. They were supported by Kamalkant, Rajeev Shukla, Parth Pratim Mukherjee, Deependra Kunwar and Naveen Mishra in other musical departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kathak-is-not-just-a-dance-yeh-ishwar-ki-aradhana-hai-pt-birju-maharaj-101637846850109.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh appears before Mumbai Police crime branch, grilled for six hours||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday appeared before the city crime branch where he was grilled for more than six hours in an extortion case against him.Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday appeared before the city crime branch where he was grilled for more than six hours in an extortion case against him.His lawyer said Singh gave statements before the crime branch. “As per the Supreme Court order, he will continue to cooperate in the probe," his lawyer added.Later, Singh told reporters he had full faith in the court. “I have joined the investigation (in a case of extortion) today, as per the order of the Supreme Court. I am cooperating in the investigation,” he added.Singh, who is currently posted as the director general of homeguards, Maharashtra, was seen leaving the crime branch unit-11 in an official vehicle around 6.15pm.Later, speaking I have joined the investigation (in a case of extortion) today, as per the order of the Supreme Court. I am cooperating in the investigation and I have full faith in the court:Also read | Param Bir Singh case: A look back at other top cops on the runThe IPS officer, declared a proclaimed offender by a city court, appeared before the crime branch to record his statement in an extortion case registered at Goregaon police station in the city against him.Police said Singh has not been called again as of now but has been told that he would be called as and when needed.On Wednesday, it was reported that Singh was in Chandigarh and may join the ongoing corruption and extortion probe in Maharashtra soon.Singh is facing as many as five separate charges of extortion and corruption in Maharashtra in which former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze have also been named.He had earlier informed the Supreme Court that he was “very much in the country” and is willing to submit to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any agency other than Maharashtra police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-appears-before-mumbai-police-crime-branch-grilled-for-six-hours-101637846382637.html
25-11-2021||Bhopal||15-yr-old rape survivor arrested for killing her baby, said she felt humiliated||BHOPAL: A 15-year-old rape survivor in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district was arrested on Thursday on charges of strangling her 40-days-old baby, a district police officer said on Thursday.The girl was upset over the birth of the baby after the rape and was feeling humiliated, said Ashok Chaurasiya, sub-divisional officer of police, Tendukheda, Damoh.“The girl was in a close relationship with a 17-year-old boy of the village. The boy raped her in February and left the girl pregnant. The girl’s family came to know about it in August when the girl complained of stomach pain. Doctors at the district hospital informed the family about the pregnancy. Later, the girl shared her ordeal with family,” said Chaurasiya.The family filed a complaint and the accused was caught under Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO). He has been lodged in a juvenile home.The girl gave birth to the baby on October 16 in a district hospital, where she was admitted due to medical complications. She returned home on November 5.Five days later, she was back at the local community health centre at Tendukheda with the baby. She told health workers that the baby was ill. When the doctor checked the baby, there was no sign of life. The baby was declared brought dead, said the police officer.The doctors recommended an autopsy to confirm if the baby died due to natural causes as claimed by the young mother.The postmortem report concluded that the baby died of strangulation.Police alleged that the rape survivor confessed during the preliminary questioning. A murder case was registered on the basis of the autopsy report. The girl was taken into custody and produced before the Juvenile Justice Court, which sent her to a correctional home, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/15yrold-rape-survivor-arrested-for-killing-her-baby-said-she-felt-humiliated-101637845109608.html
25-11-2021||Jaipur||Pakistani woman charged with fraud for procuring fake voter ID||A Pakistani woman living here allegedly on dubious documents for past several years has been booked on charges of fraud, police said on Thursday.A case has been registered against Meena Kumari at Ramganj police station here under sections of Foreigners Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code, they said.According to the police, the woman, who had arrived in India along with her parents and siblings 38 years back, has been booked for fraudulently obtaining voter ID and other Indian documents and staying without visa.The accused had arrived in India in 1983 via Atari border when she was three years old.In 2002, she married one Mohammad Sharif Qureshi, a resident of Sanjay Bazar in Jaipur, according to the FIR.At some point, she changed her name to Parveen Bano and applied for Indian citizenship. The matter is pending with the ministry of home affairs, according to the police."We have received a probe order from the CID on the basis of which an FIR has been registered against the woman and an inquiry has been initiated," Ramganj SHO Bhoori Singh said.He said a report will be submitted to the CID based on the investigation of documents in possession of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pakistani-woman-charged-with-fraud-for-procuring-fake-voter-id-101637844581532.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Shakti Mills gang-rape case: Bombay high court commutes death sentence of three convicts to life term||Death puts an end to the whole process of repentance, suffering and mental agony, said the Bombay high court on Thursday while commuting into life imprisonment – imprisonment for the rest of their lives – the death sentence handed down to the three men convicted for gang-raping a photojournalist in defunct Shakti Mills compound at Mahalaxmi in August 2013. The high court said the trio did not deserve any leniency, empathy or sympathy, but felt that they should repent till their last breath for their crime. “Although the offence is barbaric and heinous, it cannot be said at the threshold that the accused deserve the only death penalty and nothing less than that,” said the division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Prithviraj Chavan while commuting the death sentence handed down by the trial court to Vijay Jadhav (18), Mohammad Qasim Shaikh Bengali (20) and Mohammed Salim Ansari into life imprisonment. “They deserve imprisonment for life i.e. for the remainder of their natural life,” said the bench. “Every day the rising sun would remind them of the barbaric acts committed by them and the night would lay them with a heavy heart filled with guilt and remorse,” it added. The court said the trio did not deserve to assimilate with the society, “as it would be difficult to survive in a society of such men who look upon women with derision, depravity, contempt and objects of desire.” The bench also took into consideration the observations of the Law Commission that the death penalty does not serve the penological goal of deterrence any more than life imprisonment. “We, therefore, feel that a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for the remainder of their natural life without any remission, parole or furlough would meet the ends of justice.” The high court also upheld the life imprisonment punishment of the fourth accused – Siraj Rehmat Khan. On August 22, 2013, a 23-year-old photojournalist was gang-raped in the defunct Shakti Mills compound. Police investigation in the case revealed that a similar incident had occurred on July 31, 2013, when an 18-year-old call centre employee was gang-raped by the same group at the same place. Both the cases were tried simultaneously and on March 20, 2014, the accused were convicted in both cases. The next day, the trial court sentenced the trio in the case of the call centre employee and when proceedings for sentencing in the other case were taken up, the prosecutor presented an application for amendment of the charge – for adding charge under a stringent provision contained in Section 376-E of the Indian Penal Code. On March 24, 2014, the trial court allowed the application and invoking Section 376-E handed down the death sentence to the trio. Section 376 (E) of the IPC was added through the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, and was introduced following the 2012 Delhi gang-rape and murder case, providing life imprisonment or death sentence for second or subsequent convictions in certain rape cases, including gang-rapes.Meanwhile, the HC, while confirming the life imprisonment sentence of Mohammad Shaikh, 25, an accused in the gang-rape of a telephone operator at Shakti Mills in July 2013, deplored the two-finger test, which the rape survivor was subjected to during her medical examination to confirm that she was raped. The court held, “We hope that the Maharashtra government would take necessary steps to shun all such unscientific and heavily criticised “two-finger tests”. It appears that the state has formulated some guidelines. We expect and hope that the state will strictly adhere to the same.”Shaikh had filed an appeal against the sessions court verdict which was passed on March 21, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shakti-mills-gang-rape-case-bombay-high-court-commutes-death-sentence-of-three-convicts-to-life-term-101637844629640.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Grandma’s knitting bag full of warm memories||It’s an ordinary knitting bag, faded brown and of no use to anyone anymore; a bag with handles in which women put their knitting needles and wool and a pattern book, carrying it along fashionably. Now it sits in my cupboard, holding memories, hiding secrets and whispers of a lady who used it. It’s my Naniji’s (maternal grandmother’s); reminding me of her and all that she made and knitted. Aren’t women wonderful? They knit, they sew, they build lives, they persevere and plant and dig roots as deep as they can to stabilise their life and that of their family. This is what she did in the 1950s; a young immigrant lady who travelled from Ludhiana to Ohio, without knowing the lay of the land or the language fluently but she followed the path to her husband. I wonder where do the things go, when the person dies. What do you do with the things, objects that she had collected over the years lovingly from the travels abroad as an expat? It is what life is, our houses are already full, our houses have a certain decor and these old-fashioned crochets or embroidery have no place with the avant-garde or the minimalistic approach to our lives now. She must have sat, huddled with other expat wives, learning how to knit and fix these handles and learning a foreign language. The snow, the weather, the conditions, the food, all different. This sentimentality stems from the fact that I have so much of the dust catchers (as they say) or the silver I have collected over the years or the trolls that I feel are my lucky charm. Who will take them? I wonder where will it go? Life is fluid, transitory but does that mean one shouldn’t buy anything or one should have less desires. Who takes care of the dying objects that remain in a corner gathering dust? I would probably be remembered for the books I bought that would fetch a hefty price from the raddiwala and the empty coffee jars. It saddens and pains me, the weather changes, leaves fall and trees stand tall bereft of their foliage. I go back in time and think of all those who have left their homes and settled in Punjab after Partition to start life all over again. Some went abroad to be pioneers but what remains of them? A speck in history…and now some black and white faded pictures. I tried researching on Google (my answer for everything) but realised that it can’t feel, or be emotive. A life is lived with emotions and feelings and the change in weather has made me accept that it’s okay to be maudlin. It’s okay to feel, to emote and to cry. I keep the books, the journals and her things because she leafed through them and I can feel her. It’s like I try with my grandfather’s sweater and her bangle. Or a muffler that hugs me. I wish for an embrace again. ravneetsangha@hotmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grandmas-knitting-bag-full-of-warm-memories-101637844449272.html
25-11-2021||Bhopal||Over 18.5 lakh inoculated in Madhya Pradesh during mega Covid-19 vaccination drive||Over 18.5 lakh people were vaccinated against COVID-19 during the Madhya Pradesh government's Mega-Campaign-6 on Wednesday, a health official said on Thursday. At least 18.56 lakh people took the jab under the Mega-Campaign-6 till 8 pm, which is a record in the country, the official claimed. With this, a total of 8,31,79,755 persons have been vaccinated in the state till date, of which 5,08,44,816 have received the first dose, while 3,23,34,937 have taken both doses of the vaccine, it was stated. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Health and Family Welfare minister Prabhuram Choudhary have congratulated officials of the health and other departments for achieving the feat. More than 12,000 centres were established in the state and mobile units were also deployed to administer the vaccine to eligible persons at their place of work, including at agriculture fields, forest and construction sites, the official said. Travellers were administered doses on the road by mobile units, he added. As per a health bulletin issued on Wednesday, 22 new cases of the COVID-19 were detected in the state, raising the tally of infections to 7,93,074, which includes 10,527 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/over-18-5-lakh-inoculated-in-madhya-pradesh-during-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101637843374790.html
25-11-2021||Bangalore||66 medical students, fully vaccinated, test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka college||At least 66 students studying in SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Karnataka's Dharwad have tested positive for Coronavirus (Covid-19) infection, reported news agency PTI on Thursday. As a precautionary measure, two hostels of the college have also been sealed, officials further told PTI.Of the total 400 students studying in the college, about 300 have undergone Covid-19 testing so far, said the PTI report. Officials believe that the spread might be a result of a students' event held almost a week ago. They have also advised students to avoid attending programmes like marriage, functions, and cultural gatherings.Also read | Hoshiarpur school closed after 3 students test positive for Covid-19"....so far 66 students have tested positive. 300 students have been tested so far and the remaining 100 are also undergoing tests. By evening their results are also likely. Also, there are about 3,000 staff members, who will be tested. Those testing positive will be quarantined and given treatment," deputy commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said, according to PTI."We advise people to avoid events such as marriages and cultural events, or follow precautions such as use of masks, sanitisers, and maintaining distance among others if attending such events are unavoidable," Patil added.He also informed the reporters that two hostels have been sealed and necessary food, medicines and other essential things are being provided there."Those who have tested positive will not be allowed to come out and those who are awaiting test results are also quarantined, so precautionary measures have been taken to avoid any further spread," he said, adding that everyone in the campus will be tested.Meanwhile, the officials informed that all students as well as staff have been vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine but added the efforts are on to verify the records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/66-medical-students-fully-vaccinated-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka-college-101637840489601.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Delay in admissions to medical courses to cost students their future, say parents||Undergraduate and postgraduate medical aspirants feel left in the lurch as the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday decided to extend the stay on admissions to All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats. This automatically means admissions to state quota seats are also stuck, leaving lakhs of students more anxious than ever.“The apex court should have allowed interim relief to this batch of students that has already been through a lot including Covid-19, delay in conducting the entrance exam as well as delay in announcement of results. A course which usually starts regular classes by October every year will now start the process only in January next year,” said Dr Alfarooq Raut, a senior medical practitioner and parent of an aspirant. NEET UG results were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on November 1 this year, after weeks of delay due to a Bombay high court stay. Similarly, NEET-PG 2021 that is normally held in January was first postponed to February, then April, and eventually delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 recorded across the country. The entrance test was finally conducted in September. But admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS and OBC quota in All India Quota (AIQ) seats.The AIQ and state admission rounds are conducted simultaneously because vacant seats in AIQ post the second round are surrendered for state quota.“While admissions are stayed, nothing is stopping the state common entrance test (CET) cell from starting the registration and document verification process for UG and PG medical aspirants. Once the state merit list is announced, students will get a decent idea about where they stand in the state and which course they will be eligible for. The CET cell should not waste any more time,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist.Constant delay in conducting admissions to the first year post graduate medical courses is not only creating trouble for those waiting to confirm seats, but also for those already pursuing PG. In October this year, separate letters were addressed to the Government of India, Chief Justice of India as well as the National Medical Commission (NMC) by several groups of resident doctors requesting that the NEET-PG counselling be started at the earliest.“The constant delay has ensured that an entire batch of PG students go missing from the health sector, especially at a time when we need more support to fight the pandemic. This is unfair to us (resident doctors) as well as PG and UG medical aspirants waiting for the admissions process to begin,” said a senior resident doctor from KEM Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delay-in-admissions-to-medical-courses-to-cost-students-their-future-say-parents-101637842288127.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Northern Railways seeks feedback from MPs||Ministers and members of parliament of constituencies falling under the jurisdiction of the Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the Northern Railways were apprised of the developmental activities and new initiatives taken up by the railways at meeting held in Chandigarh on Thursday. The move comes after minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw advised general managers of the zonal railways to work on public outreach and get feedback to be able to improve services.Minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, Lok Sabha MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Amar Singh, Kishan Kapoor, Ratan Lal Kataria, Nayab Singh, Hazi Fazlur Rehman and Jasbir Singh Gill, Rajya Sabha MPs Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Indu Bala Goswami, and Balwinder Singh Bhunder attended the meeting, which was called by Northern Railways general Ashutosh Gangal. The minister and MPs shared the demands, requirements and aspirations of rail users with the officials, and sought that infrastructure and public convenience-related projects on top priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/northern-railways-seeks-feedback-from-mps-101637842049412.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Before hitting mute for 2 weeks, Nawab Malik fires again at Sameer Wankhede||MUMBAI: Hours before his lawyer promised the high court not to tweet anything against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official Sameer Wankhede for two weeks, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday morning tweeted a new set of documents to reiterate his old charge against the official’s family.Malik tweeted a document purportedly issued on 16 April 2015 by a cemetery clerk in Oshiwara for Sameer Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano’s burial which identified her as a Muslim. The death certificate issued by the municipal corporation, however, listed her as a Hindu.Nawab Malik said this was another instance of the Wankhede family projecting themselves as Hindus in government records to continue getting benefits extended to people from the Scheduled Caste.Sameer Wankhede declined to comment on the two certificates. “I don’t want to comment on the allegations related to my mother, who is no longer with me. It is really very sad to talk about and remove documents of a person who died six years ago,” the NCB official said.Malik has alleged that Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim by birth since his father converted to Islam before his marriage to his mother. But he used his father’s previous identity to get a job in the Indian Revenue Services (IRS) under the SC category. Wankhede and his family have all along refuted the claim.Malik, the state’s minorities affairs minister, told reporters that the fresh set of two documents released on Thursday backed up his charge that the official and his family abused benefits meant for scheduled castes which can be claimed only by Hindus, not Muslims.“He (Sameer Wankhede’s father Dnyandev) continued the forgery even after his wife’s death. One certificate for last rites and another for government records, so that their government job will not come under danger. It is another proof of forgery,” he added.“The entire Wankhede family has adopted dual identities. They were following all the Muslim rituals but documents were made as Hindu so that they can continue to get benefits of a backward class,” the minister said.The minister, who has been tweeting his attacks at Wankhede for weeks, later told the Mumbai high court that he will pause his attacks till December 9, the next date of hearing of an appeal by Sameer Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Wankhede who is seeking a gag order against the minister.A single bench of justice Madhav Jamdar on November 22 declined to prohibit Nawab Malik from posting documents against the Wankhede family but told the minister to reasonably verify the material before posting it. Dnyandev Wankhede subsequently approached a division bench with his appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/before-hitting-mute-for-2-weeks-nawab-malik-fires-again-at-sameer-wankhede-101637842048102.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Kharegaon Rail Over Bridge in Thane likely to be opened on December 20||After missing several deadlines, the Kharegaon Rail Over Bridge (ROB) is likely to be opened for commuters on December 20. Only 5% work on the ROB is remaining, said Thane Municipal Corporation officials.A meeting was held between Kalwa MP, Shrikant Shinde, and TMC officials on Thursday to take a review of the project.The ROB is being jointly constructed by the Railways and TMC. The girder on the railway track of the East-West connecting ROB is laid by the Railways while the access roads are constructed by the TMC.A civic official said, “We have completed the construction of the access roads. Only painting and electric work is remaining. The delay was due to some technical reasons that we have resolved and will be able to open the ROB soon.”The ROB was proposed to close the railway gate at Kharegaon, which the residents of Kalwa had to cross to reach Kalwa Railway Station, leading to accidents. Motorists, too, had a long wait to cross this railway line.Shinde said, “There were some pending dues by the contractor working on the bridge. These will be cleared soon and the remaining work will be fast-paced. We have asked the TMC to ensure that the bridge is open for commuters by December 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kharegaon-rail-over-bridge-in-thane-likely-to-be-opened-on-december-20-101637841509911.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||BJP legislators call off strike; some MSRTC workers may continue strike||A day after the state government announced salary hike for the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators Gopichand Padalkar and Sadabhau Khot, who were leading the state transport (ST) employees’ strike, said that they are calling off the strike. However, a section of the ST workers, who are firm on their demand on the corporation’s merger with the state government, are expected to continue their stir at Azad Maidan.On Wednesday, the state government announced a salary hike ranging between ₹7,200 and ₹3,600 for the employees of the state transport body, who are on strike for the past fortnight. Padalkar and Khot, who led the ST workers, had deferred their decision on Wednesday and sought more time to discuss with the ST workers, who camped at Azad Maidan.The legislators held consultations with workers at Azad Maidan till late night. However, there was no consensus among the workers. While some were happy with the salary hike, others were firm to continue the stir till the corporation is included in the state government. “We met the workers at Azad Maidan and told them that we have to take a stand after the final meeting with the government. We are calling off the strike. They can remain on their stand as we cannot force them [to end the strike]. We will not oppose whoever wants to continue the strike,” Padalkar said on Thursday.Khot, meanwhile, said that the workers must accept the hike in salary as their victory and prepare for the next “battle”. “We did not announce our decision immediately. We spent a night discussing with the workers at Azad Maidan. We are still with the workers, but I believe that we must accept the hike, and prepare for the next battle,” he said.Transport minister Anil Parab appealed to the workers who are still on strike to return to work. He said that their demand for a merger was primarily to ensure timely payment of salaries and increase in pay, which the government has already done. “I think, they should not stick to term ‘merger’ now. We have given them a hike and assured timely salaries every month. Regarding the merger, they can speak to the court-appointed committee,” Parab said in Thursday. He added that some employees want to resume work. “We will monitor how many employees return to their respective duties by tomorrow afternoon. After that the Corporation will decide its future course of action,” he added.Padalkar said that the workers have the right to not accept the government’s offer and that they cannot force the workers, as it was a spontaneous strike by the workers. “If the government has come two steps forward, then now the workers have to decide whether to accept it or not; it is their right. We cannot force the workers. We had discussions with the employees, some of them are happy with the [salary] hike, while some of them want the merger,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-legislators-call-off-strike-some-msrtc-workers-may-continue-strike-101637841447966.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik to HC: Won’t post anything against Sameer Wankhede, family till Dec 9||Maharashtra minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) leader Nawab Malik on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that he will not post anything against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede or his family members till December 9. The statement came in response to an appeal filed by the NCB officer’s father Dnyandev Wankhede, challenging the November 22 order of a single-judge bench of the same high court. The appeal is being heard by a division bench. The single judge had refused to grant interim injunction, as sought by Wankhede, but had said that Malik should reasonably verify the material before posting it on social media platforms. Wankhede moved an appeal before a division bench, complaining that Malik continued to post material without verification even after the November 22 order. On Thursday, Malik also informed the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav that he, too, was in the process of filing an appeal against the November 22 order, to the extent of some observations made by the judge against him. Wankhede’s counsel, senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, on Thursday submitted that social media had become a platform for anyone to say anything against anyone. While referring to the November 22 order, Dr Saraf said that the judge had observed that the tweets posted by Malik were malicious and the allegations of corruption against Wankhede were made casually. Dr Saraf also pointed out that the judge had on November 12 fully heard both the sides and reserved his orders on the interim application filed by Dnyandev Wankhede in the defamation suit. However, six days later, Malik produced additional documents which were accepted by the single-judge bench. Advocate Karl Tamboly for Malik, however, informed the bench that the documents submitted on November 18 were only in support of those which had been already annexed to the defamation suit and were submitted as there were claims of interpolation in the documents on record. When the court asked what action had been initiated by Malik after he had raised the caste certificate issue of Wankhede in the hearing for interim injunction, Tamboly said that the minister had not approached the caste scrutiny committee nor lodged a complaint. Tamboly also submitted that he was aware of an on-going inquiry, but was not sure if it was pertaining to the caste certificate. On hearing the submission, the bench sought to know whether the tweets made by Malik were only for media publicity after his son-in-law was arrested by NCB. Thereafter, Tamboly sought time to file a reply to the appeal and assured that Malik would not tweet anything against the Wankhedes till the next hearing. The division bench accepted the statement and posted the appeal for further hearing on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-to-hc-won-t-post-anything-against-sameer-wankhede-family-till-dec-9-101637841087994.html
25-11-2021||Dehradun||11 IFS officers & 6 others test Covid-19 positive in Dehradun; 2 areas declared containment zones||At least 11 Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers at Forest Research Institute (FRI) Old Hostel, and six people in Tibetan Colony in Uttarakhand's Dehradun have tested positive for Coronavirus (Covid-19), news agency ANI quoted district magistrate of Dehradun R Rajesh Kumar as saying on Thursday. Both the areas have now been declared containment zones as a precautionary measure.The official also informed that a senior officer of Himachal Pradesh, who came to FRI for mid-term training, has been 'absconding' ever since he tested positive for the coronavirus disease. He added that the police have been informed and they are on the lookout for him.After 11 IFS officers at FRI Old Hostel and 6 people in Tibetans Colony, located on Sahastradhara Road, turned #COVID19 Positive in Dehradun, both the areas have been declared as Containment Zone: Dehradun District Magistrate Dehradun R Rajesh Kumar to ANI (File photo) pic.twitter.com/nd5ZBXWQ6eOn November 23, state health minister Dhan Singh Rawat said that there will be no reduction in Covid-19 testing in the state. Rawat was reacting to Uttarakhand chief secretary's order of discontinuing the practice of testing tourists for Covid-19 at the state's border and railway stations."There is a need to be careful in times of Coronavirus pandemic, so there will be no reduction in testing by the government. The government will once again reconsider whether or not we should remove the testing booths established in the border areas," ANI quoted Rawat as saying.India logged 9,119 new coronavirus infections and 396 Covid-19-related fatalities in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 48 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 151 consecutive days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/11-ifs-officers-6-others-test-covid-19-positive-in-dehradun-2-areas-declared-containment-zones-101637837190865.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Man killed, wife and son injured as country-made bomb explodes in Raigad||A 45-year-old man died while his wife and 10-year-old son sustained serious injuries when country bombs in their possession exploded in a rural village of Raigad.The family, hailing from Katni district of Madhya Pradesh, survived on pigs and fishes caught using country-made bombs made by themselves.On Tuesday, at around 11am, the deceased, Sandesh Adivasi Chauhan, his wife Majeenabai (40) and son Satyam were preparing to catch fish and pigs, when a country-made bomb in their possession blasted, killing Chauhan on the spot.“The injured were admitted to MGM Hospital in Panvel and a case was registered on Tuesday night against the deceased and his wife,” police inspector Ashwanath Khedkar from Mangaon police station, said.The case has been registered under Sections 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and sections of Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-killed-wife-and-son-injured-as-country-made-bomb-explodes-in-raigad-101637840308436.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU to hold 21-day winter school on commercial apiculture||The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has sanctioned a 21-day training programme on ‘Commercial apiculture for livelihood security of the farmers and unemployed rural youth’, which will be held by Punjab Agricultural University’s department of entomology as part of its winter school. Twenty-five trainees will be inducted in the residential training programme, which will be held between February 8 and 28. This is the third consecutive winter school sanctioned by the apex body in agricultural research and education to the department. Department of entomology head DK Sharma said, “The proposal was submitted to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under the under the guidance of professor Pardeep K Chhuneja to update the scientists about the aspects of commercial apiculture.” At the winter school, budding scientists from different parts of the country will get hands-on practical experience on different aspects such as husbandry practices, diagnosis and management of honey bee pests and diseases, bee diversity and pollination requirement of plants; production, processing and packing of hive products, mass queen bee rearing and bee breeding. Scientists and researchers working in the field of entomology can apply for this programme through the ICAR website https://cbp.icar.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-to-hold-21-day-winter-school-on-commercial-apiculture-101637840248158.html
25-11-2021||Patna||BJP working committee in Bihar meets, sets goal on finalising ‘panna pramukhs’||With an eye on preparing for the 2024 general elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) working committee in Bihar held a meeting on Wednesday and instructed the district committees to complete the task of appointing “panna pramukhs” by April next year.As part of the BJP’s plans to ensure greater participation at the booth level, the party has been focusing on the “panna pramukh” system. “Panna Pramukhs” will be the party’s first point of contact with voters at the booth level, with each “panna pramukh” tasked with establishing contact with about 30 voters from a given page of an electoral roll.BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said the party is focusing on Bihar and has tasked its district committees to complete the appointment of “panna pramukhs” by April 4, 2022. “The formation of the committees will to be monitored by regional in-charges,” he said.Also Read: JD(U) showcases Nitish’s 15-year ruleDistricts units have also been asked to wrap up the process of forming committees by December 26. A political resolution was passed at the meeting, which hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana by four months. It also hailed the role played by the BJP in the recently held bye-polls. “In the last bye-elections in the Bihar assembly, our allies won. For this, all our booth presidents and our leaders played a role. Thanks to all, this is the result of the collective effort of the NDA,” said Jaiswal.“In Bihar, if we have been successful in winning two-thirds of our seats by putting aside the anti-incumbency [factor], then it is [because of] the hard work of all BJP workers,” he said.The party’s political resolution also hailed the role of the government in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-working-committee-in-bihar-meets-sets-goal-on-finalising-panna-pramukhs-101637840008383.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Physical classes to resume for all students from December 1||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Thursday all schools across the state will reopen for physical classes from December 1.She said the Uddhav Thackeray-led government took a decision on the matter during the day’s cabinet meeting.Students from classes 1 to 12 will be able to attend offline session from the beginning of the next month, Gaikwad said.“After discussing with the CM, cabinet and paediatric task force, the state cabinet has decided to reopen schools from classes 1-4 in rural areas and classes 1-7 in urban areas from December 1. We are committed to safe resumption of schools,” Gaikwad was quoted as saying by news agency in ANI.According to reports, a proposal in this regard had earlier been cleared by the state health department and the Covid-19 task force. On Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state paediatric task force was in in favour of resuming physical school for classes 1 to 4.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-physical-classes-to-resume-for-all-students-from-december-1-101637838723732.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||FIR against truck driver in Thane for running over stray dog, killing it||A stray dog was killed after it was run over by a reversing truck while sleeping on the road in Wagle Estate, Thane. The Srinagar police registered an FIR against the truck driver earlier this week.Police said that the complaint was filed on Monday by Wagle Estate resident, Pratik Kochale, a 27-year-old student who also feeds and tends to stray dogs in his area. The deceased dog was one of the strays under his care and was named Shaggy.On November 19, Kochale received a call from one of his friends about a stray dog lying lifeless near Sankalp Bungalow. Kochale rushed to the spot and saw to his shock that it was Shaggy, who had died due to severe multiple injuries. Kochale subsequently conducted Shaggy’s last rites at a temple in the locality.“Following the incident, I got in touch with NGO, We For A Cause, and together we obtained CCTV camera footage of the spot. The footage showed a Mahindra Bolero milk pick-up truck running over Shaggy and then fleeing the scene without stopping to help,” Kochale said.Subsequently, Kochale visited the Srinagar police station with the CCTV footage. He also got in touch with animal rights activist, Nidhi Sawant, who is currently working with the Pure Animal Lover (PAL) Group, an NGO that works against cruelty to animals.“We sought help from Assistant Commissioner of Police Sudhir Kudalkar, who is also a PAL member, and he helped us file an FIR in the matter,” Sawant said.Police registered an FIR on Monday against the driver of the truck, booking him for rash driving and mischief by killing or maiming animals under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.“We have identified and traced the driver and are conducting further inquiries into the matter. A charge sheet will be filed against him soon,” senior police inspector Laxman Tambe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-truck-driver-in-thane-for-running-over-stray-dog-killing-it-101637838568080.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Sanjay Singh, Akhilesh Yadav meeting was about UP politics, says CM Kejriwal||After Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that their meeting was about Uttar Pradesh politics.Sanjay Singh had met Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday triggering speculation about an alliance between the two parties for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls early next year.The meeting came a day after RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary met Akhilesh Yadav amid indications of an alliance between the two parties for the assembly polls.Sanjay Singh said in a tweet that a fruitful meeting was held with the aim of defeating the ruling BJP in the state.Also Read | AAP's Sanjay Singh meets Akhilesh, hints at alliance with Samajwadi Party"To free Uttar Pradesh from the misrule of the BJP, there was a fruitful meeting with the national president of Samajwadi Party, Akhilesh Yadavji. A discussion was held on similar issues. Many thanks to Akhilesh Yadavji. Uttar Pradesh has to be freed from the dictatorship of BJP," he said.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a photo of him meeting Sanjay Singh and AAP MLA Dilip Pandey and said:"A meeting aimed at change!"Sanjay Singh replied to Yadav's tweet and said, "A revolution against dictatorship for progress and change! Akhilesh Yadavjii, thank you very much for the meeting and fruitful discussion."Speaking to the media after his meeting with the SP chief, Singh said that if talks are held for an alliance, then the information will be shared.Earlier, speaking to the media, Kejriwal said that he gave an order to deposit ₹5,000 each in bank accounts of construction workers in view of a ban on construction activities due to air pollution."I have given an order today to deposit ₹5,000 each in bank accounts of construction workers in view of a ban on construction activities due to air pollution. We will also provide compensation to workers for their loss according to their minimum wages," said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sanjay-singh-akhilesh-yadav-meeting-was-about-up-politics-says-cm-kejriwal-101637838032781.html
25-11-2021||Kolkata||Rising CO2 level taking toll on marine organisms in Sunderbans, say scientists||The rising carbon dioxide (CO2) level in the air is turning the water in the Sunderbans estuary more acidic and taking a toll on marine fish and animals, particularly those having shells such as oysters, clams, crabs and lobsters, say scientists. A team of marine scientists working in the Sunderbans has found that the pH level of water in the estuary, located at the southern tip of West Bengal, dropped from around 8.3 in the early 1980s to around 7.9 in 2019.“While in the western part of the Sunderban, which is closer to urban areas, the pH has dropped to around 7.9 since 1984, in the central part of the delta, the decline is slower and has dropped to 8.2 during the same period,” said Abhijit Mitra, former head of the marine science department of Calcutta University.The acidity of a substance is measured using the pH scale. A substance with a pH of 7 is considered neutral. An acid has a pH of less than 7. The normal range for pH in packaged drinking water as per Indian Standard is between 6.5 and 8.5.At Namkhana in western Sunderbans, the rate of decline is 0.024 units per decade in the pre-monsoon and monsoon times. In the post-monsoon time, it is 0.019 units per decade. At Ajmalmari in the central part of the delta, the decadal decline is 0.012 units during pre-monsoon and 0.017 during post-monsoon.“But in the estuary, this slight decline in pH level is taking the toll. Not only has the population of shelled organisms, such as oysters, clams, crabs, and lobsters, declined, their shell size has become thinner and they have become smaller in size,” said Mitra. He added they have little data from east Sunderbans which is closer to Bangladesh.Also Read: In defence of India’s climate stanceThe population of shelled organisms has dropped by around 35%-40% in the western part of the delta, where the decline in pH is more. The size of Saccostrea cucullata, a species of edible oyster around Kakdwip and Namkhana fishing harbour in the Sunderban, has dropped by over 40%. In the central Sunderbans, the size of the species has dropped by around 20%.Mitra and his fellow researcher Sufia Zaman have written a book “Estuarine Acidification: Exploring the situation of mangrove dominated Indian Sunderban estuaries”.Fishermen working in the Sunderban area too have found that the size of several shell organisms including crabs and prawns has diminished.“It is true that the size of several fish and other animals found in the sea, rivers and creeks of the Sunderban such as crabs and prawns are getting smaller. Earlier we used to get big crabs. Now we hardly get any big ones. Most are smaller in size. But unbridled fishing and catching of these fish and animals could also be a reason,” said Bijan Maity of Kakdwip Matsya Unnayan Samity, the apex body of fishermen and trawler owners.Scientists explained that human blood has a pH of 7.35 to 7.45. Just as the slightest drop (0.2 -0.3 units) in pH level can make you sick, the drop in pH level can also take a heavy toll on sea animals.“Shelled sea animals such as oysters and mussels depend on the calcium and carbonate ions in the water to form their shells with calcium carbonate. But with rising acidity, these carbonate ions become scarcer and more inaccessible to the animals. The result is that they can’t form the shell properly and may become smaller in size,” said Punyasloke Bhadury, assistant professor of biological sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research.Corals need calcium carbonate to build reefs. Acidification of seas would not just corrode old coral skeletons but would also slow down the growth of new ones. The reefs would in turn weaken and become vulnerable to erosion.“Ocean acidification is a part of global warming and climate change. The biggest example of corals getting affected by all these is bleaching. Corals are very sensitive to their surroundings and the slightest difference would affect them. The only way to reduce this is to limit the carbon footprint,” said Chowdula Satyanarayana, a scientist working on corals.But it is not just the Sunderban alone where the pH level has dropped. Mitra and his team of researchers have found that such changes are also going on in other estuaries too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rising-co2-level-taking-toll-on-marine-organisms-in-sunderbans-say-scientists-101637837548187.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Dealing with “tikka” by introducing exotic varieties of groundnuts||The decline in the export of groundnut seed from the port of Bombay flummoxed the Bombay Chamber of Commerce and the Agricultural Department in 1900. The largest export was in 1894-95 when 78,488 tonnes of groundnuts were shipped. In 1902-03, the amount had fallen to 2,890 tonnes, and this once important trade had practically ceased to exist.The trade figures collected from Poona in 1900 showed a rapid decline in the surplus available for export, and a district inquiry indicated that the crop had ceased to be profitable and that the area sown was rapidly contracting.The Chamber attributed it to a degeneration of the locally-grown seed. But there was no valid evidence then of any degeneration in the quality of the Indian stock. The plant was a native of South America and had been introduced into India in the 16th century. A number of races developed in India in the course of time, and what was commonly referred to as the “indigenous variety” in India was actually of Brazilian origin.Analyses of the seed made in 1838 and 1904 did not show any appreciable difference in the oil content and no evidence whatever was obtainable to show that the indigenous races had deteriorated as regards quality. But there appeared to be no doubt that the yield per acre had fallen off considerably.Sir W Thiselton-Dyer, director of the Royal Gardens, Kew, sent a representative to Poona and a few sites in the Madras Presidency and opined that the “degeneration of the seed” was a facile theory which was continually advanced when the production of a crop was disappointing. According to him, the real explanation of the falling off was to be found in the exhaustion of some constituent of the soil.A succession of unfavourable seasons had no doubt helped to increase the unpopularity of the crop, but this reason was insufficient by itself to explain the prolonged period of depression which was experienced not only in Bombay and Poona but in the much larger trade of Madras and Pondicherry.It was soon evident that the crop was suffering very severely from a disease, locally known as “tikka,” which was determined to be due to the fungus Septogloeum arachidis.Septogloeum arachidis was first described in 1898 when it was discovered attacking the immense fields of groundnuts grown in Java. These fields were often entirely wiped out by the disease. A similar attack of the disease had happened in Germany, East Africa and Ceylon (now Sri Lanka).The disease had now made its presence known in the Bombay Presidency. It struck when the plants were from one to two months old. The lower leaves were the first to be attacked; dark spots, surrounded by a bright yellow ring, came out in large numbers on the green leaves; a few also occurred on the petioles and stem.The leaf slowly lost its green colour and fell to the ground. After the disease had been in progress for a week or two, affected plants could be recognised by the litter of fallen leaves around their base.Naturally, when the attack began early, the plant was unable to mature its nuts. Those that had begun to form as the attack reached its height, ceased development, and at harvest were found shrivelled and loose in the shell.To combat the disease, experiments were carried out at the Kirkee farm owned by the Agricultural Department. Steeping the seed with various fungicides did not prove successful in checking the disease. The fungus was not found on any other plant than groundnut.In those cases where the disease had appeared in localities where the crop was previously unknown, it was probable that it was introduced with the soil adhering to the shell, and not with the seed themselves. It was found that the subsequent spread was largely affected by the wind.The Bombay Chamber of Commerce then advocated the expediency of importing a new and better quality, such as was reported to be grown in Mozambique and Senegambia, in the hope of obtaining kinds which would yield well, even in the presence of the disease.The first importation was in 1901 when one tonne of Pondicherry seed was obtained from Madras and distributed in Poona and Satara districts. The Pondicherry variety was of Mozambique origin, introduced into Madras, via Mauritius. The same year small quantities of “Spanish peanut” and “Virginia” varieties were obtained from the USA and of “Small” and “Large” Japanese from Japan. These were grown on the Kirkee and Surat farms.The next year, the seed of all these kinds was distributed in the same districts as the previous year. Tikka appeared in August, the variety first attacked at Kirkee being Spanish peanut and at Manjari the “Small” Japanese. At Surat, tikka did not affect the yield where the Pondicherry variety was grown. This established the importance of varieties that matured their nuts early. It was then decided that the Pondicherry variety would be given preference, since though similarly affected by tikka, the damage done was much less, as the nuts were formed by the time the crop was attacked.The experiments continued for the next four years, and every year thousands of tonnes of exotic seeds were introduced in the districts of Maharashtra. As a result of this work, the exotic varieties, especially the Pondicherry variety took permanent hold in almost all the districts of the state. In the Poona district, the indigenous were preferred to the exotics in the local market, being almost entirely grown for eating raw.The crop soon spread from Madras to Gujarat, and gradually to a wide swath of states all the way down to the southwest of India. The variety, subsequently named Coromandel, has since dominated the production of groundnuts all over India.By 1912 no specimens of tikka disease from Bombay and Poona were received in the Mycological Laboratory at Pusa.Coincident with the introduction of the exotics and the disappearance of tikka, the exports of groundnuts from Bombay began to increase. In just ten years, they rose to 48,800 tonnes. The recovery was almost as phenomenal as the decline previous to 1902.The experiment made scientists in Poona and elsewhere realise that a field crop was not in any sense a unit; that it consisted of a complex of races responding differently to the environment (in which must be included disease)and that the composition of the complex might be profoundly modified, especially if crossing occurred, by the introduction of new kinds, or by the growth of a variety in a new environment; and that there was no means of knowing whether the disease might not, in itself, had brought about the establishment of a crop resistant to its effects, by killing out those constituents of the varietal mixture which were most susceptible to its attack.The case is one of considerable interest, as being one of the few recorded in which a serious crop disease was checked by the introduction and acclimatisation of exotic varieties.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food historian. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted on chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-dealing-with-tikka-by-introducing-exotic-varieties-of-groundnuts-101637837368010.html
25-11-2021||Bangalore||Jarkiholi case: Bengaluru top cop, 2 others move HC against lower court order||Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant and two other officers moved the Karnataka high court a day after a lower court on Tuesday ordered a probe against them for allegedly delaying the filing of a First Information Report (FIR) against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in an alleged sexual harassment case.Adarsh R Iyer, who filed a private complaint in the lower court, said he approached a police station to file a complaint against the officers on March 17 for the delay but no action was taken. Subsequently, he unsuccessfully took up the matter with deputy police commissioner (Central) MN Anuchet on April 1. “The delay from the officers to file an FIR (against the minister) based on the complaint of social activist Dinesh Kallahalli amounts to a case under Section 166A (public servant disobeying direction under the law) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code). I approached the court seeking action against officers under this section as police did not respond to my complaints.”In their petition in the high court, Pant, Anuchet, and B Maruti, the police station in-charge, argued that the lower court passed the order without mentioning whether Iyer’s allegations would amount to action against the officers. The plea said an FIR is registered based on the complaint given by the victim.Also Read: Congress candidate in Karnataka MLC polls declares assets worth ₹1,743 croreThe high court is likely to hear the matter on Thursday. Jarkiholi was forced to resign as a minister in March when Kalahalli lodged a complaint of sexual harassment and exploitation against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader. Kalahalli withdrew the complaint within five days. He claimed he was distressed by the allegation that he had lodged the complaint for money. Police did not register an FIR saying the woman, who was allegedly harassed has to appear before them. They subsequently dropped the investigation.On March 11, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team to probe the case. The woman later filed a complaint through her lawyers, as police insisted that an FIR will be filed only based on her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-top-cop-two-other-officers-move-hc-against-lower-court-probe-order-101637836947949.html
25-11-2021||Kolkata||Elections to Kolkata Municipal Corporation to be held on December 19||The Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls, which have been pending for over a year, will be held on December 19, the West Bengal State Election Commission said in a notification on Thursday.“We have not issued the notification for the Howrah Municipal Corporation polls for now,” said an official of the poll body. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government proposed to hold polls for over 100 civic bodies across the state in phases starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) moved the high court demanding simultaneous elections to all civic bodies.The court is scheduled to hear the petition on holding simultaneous elections on November 29.Also Read: Uncertainty looms over civic polls in Kolkata and Howrah to be held next monthGovernor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday sent back the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking more details from the government.TMC controls most of the civic bodies in West Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over two years ago, but polls were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. They are currently being run by administrators.The state election commission submitted an affidavit in the court this week saying it wants to hold elections to the municipal corporations of Kolkata and Howrah first as the number of double-vaccinated people in these two cities is high. It said elections to the other municipal bodies in the state would be held in phases later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/elections-to-kolkata-municipal-corporation-to-be-held-on-december-19-101637836228310.html
25-11-2021||Indore||9 more Army officers at IIM Indore test positive for Covid-19||Nine more fully-vaccinated Army officers, participating in a course at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) here in Madhya Pradesh, tested positive for coronavirus, taking the number of the infected officers pursuing this course to 11 in the last four days, a health official said on Wednesday. These Army officers are pursuing a six-month certificate course in Business Management for Defence Officers (CCBMDO) at IIM. "In the last 24 hours, nine more Army officers tested positive for coronavirus. They are taking part in a course at the IIM Indore," chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr B S Saitya said. The infected officers have taken both the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and were asymptomatic, he said, adding that the officers had not travelled outside the district recently. The officers had arrived in the city two-and-a-half months ago to pursue the CCBMDO course, Saitya said. Indore's COVID-19 nodal officer Dr Amit Malakar said four Army officers were found infected with coronavirus in the last two days and among them, two are part of the IIM course. All COVID-19 infected officers were undergoing treatment at the Army hospital in the Mhow cantonment area, he said. As a precautionary measure, the IIM administration has stopped offline classes for the CCBMDO course. Participants of this course will be taught online, IIM director professor Himanshu Rai said. He said all 60 participants of the course were not staying at the IIM campus. A separate classroom was arranged for them on the campus. Meanwhile, health officials informed that 13 people, including the nine Army officers, had tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in the last 24 hours, taking the number of infections to 1,53,312, including 1,393 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/9-more-army-officers-at-iim-indore-test-positive-for-covid19-101637835002377.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress vs Captain in Patiala: Amarinder to mayor’s rescue||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh reached his New Moti Bagh Palace in Patiala on Thursday to back mayor Sanjiv Bittu against whom a no-confidence motion has been moved by local councillors. Also read: ‘Explain..’ Cong puts Amarinder Singh’s wife on notice for anti-party activitiesThe battle to remove Bittu from the post of mayor has turned into a litmus test for Capt Amarinder Singh. Bittu is the only elected leader to have stood by Capt Amarinder after he was removed from the chief minister’s post by the Congress, making the trust motion a tug of war between the Congress and the Captain. The Congress has deputed deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for ensuring the removal of Bittu. Mohindra held a meeting with councillors and the district administration. Nearly a week after 42 of the 60 councillors of the Patiala municipal corporation sent a requisition to him expressing their no-confidence, mayor Bittu decided to hold a general House meeting to prove his majority at 4pm on November 25. As MLA, Capt can vote in no-trust motion For the past four days, Captain’s wife and Patiala Congress MP Preneet Kaur has kept nearly 20-odd councillors at her house, to avoid any poaching. Captain, who is also the Patiala MLA, is ex-officio member of the General House and has the right to vote in the no-confidence motion. A protégé of Captain Amarinder, Bittu has been facing rebellion from fellow councillors over his proximity with the former CM. Of the 60 seats in the House, 32 are in Captain’s constituency, 26 in local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra’s Patiala (rural) constituency and two in Sanaur. Two councillors close to Capt Amarinder were picked up by the police when they were headed for voting on Thursday evening. Mayor Bittu alleged that the government was using police force to remove him.As the Captain floated the Punjab Lok Congress recently, a majority of the councillors decided to remain with the Congress. As Preneet is doing spade work to help Bittu, the Congress has issued a show-cause notice to her for anti-party activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-vs-captain-in-patiala-amarinder-to-mayor-s-rescue-101637835867677.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Won’t post anything against Sameer Wankhede till Dec 9, Nawab Malik tells HC||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday informed the Bombay high court that he will not post anything on social media against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede or his family till December 9.The statement came in response to an appeal filed by the officer’s father, Dnyandev Wankhede, challenging the November 22 order of a single judge bench refusing the interim injunction. The judge asked Malik to verify the material before posting it on social media platforms. The appeal is being heard by a division bench.Dnyandev Wankhede moved in appeal complaining that Malik continued to post material against the family without verification even after the November 22 order.Also Read: NCB officer’s wife files plaint over screenshots of chats shared by Nawab MalikMalik on Thursday also informed the division bench of justices S J Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav that he too was in the process of filing an appeal against some observations in the order.Senior advocate Birendra Saraf, who represented Dnyandev Wankhede, submitted that social media has become a platform for anyone to say anything against anyone. He referred to the single judge bench order and added it observed Malik’s tweets against the officer and his family were malicious and that the allegations of corruption against Sameer Wankhede were made casually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-post-anything-against-sameer-wankhede-till-dec-9-nawab-malik-tells-hc-101637835027934.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four of family killed in fire in Haryana’s Yamunanagar town||A 35-year-old labourer and his three children died of suffocation when a fire broke out in a scrap godown in Haryana’s Yamunanagar town early on Thursday. Also read: 6 Rafale fighter jets with India specific enhancement to arrive in Dec-Jan 2022Police said the man, Nizamuddin, lived with his family and other labourers in the quarters behind the godown on City Centre Road in Yamunanagar. The fire that started in the godown around 2am spread to the quarters, catching the victims unawares. The fire brigade personnel and the police had to break down the walls to enter the quarter, where Nizamuddin and his family were living. His wife Nasima was rescued alive and is undergoing treatment. “We retrieved the bodies of the man and two children and later found another child’s body in the kitchen. All have been sent for post-mortem,” a fire department official said. Many residents of adjoining quarters managed to escape, while six fire tenders doused the blaze by dawn with the help of local residents. The cause of the fire is being ascertained, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-family-killed-in-fire-in-haryana-s-yamunanagar-town-101637826327409.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Noida airport ground-breaking ceremony: ‘Under double engine sarkar, UP getting what it deserves,’ says PM Modi at Jewar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone for the grand inauguration of the Noida International Airport (NIA) in Jewar, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh. Ahead of the bhoomi pujan event, the Noida Traffic Police issued an advisory detailing traffic diversions and alternative routes. Earlier this morning, a 6-km-long traffic jam was reported on the road leading to Jewar.The Noida International Airport (NIA) will be the second international airport to come up in the national capital region, after Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport.Notably, the first phase of the airport is spread over more than 1300 hectares of land and is scheduled to be begin flight operations by 2024. Once completed, the airport is also deemed to be the largest airport in Asia.Highlights of the event:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-international-airport-ground-breaking-live-updates-pm-modi-to-reach-jewar-shortly-101637824114468.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||ED raids Punjab’s Fastway Cable network owner Gurdeep Singh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the properties of Gurdeep Singh, the owner of Fastway Cable Network and Jujhar Bus Service, in Ludhiana under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Thursday morning.Also read: Cable connection for ₹100 not feasible, say Punjab operatorsED officials said that they were probing Gurdeep’s links with Surinder Pal Singh, a former chief engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). Earlier this year, Surinder Pal Singh, alias Pehalwan, who is reportedly close to the Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, was booked by the ED in a money laundering case at its zonal office in Jalandhar on the basis of a Punjab Vigilance Bureau probe. The VB arrested Pehalwan on June 9, 2017, after it found he allotted works of ₹1,200 crore at exorbitant rates. He was accused of parking his black money in accounts of bogus firms and family members. Pehalwan joined the Punjab Mandi Board as a junior engineer in 1993. He became a superintending engineer in GMADA in 2014 and officiated as a chief engineer there from 2016. In September 2019, the VB attached 59 properties of the former GMADA chief engineer, amounting to ₹26 crore on the orders of a Mohali court. The VB has filed four challans against Pehalwan and others in the case. According to the VB probe, Pehalwan had registered three fake companies in the name of family members and made transactions of hundreds of crores through banks. During his GMADA stint, he formed a fake construction company, Ek Onkar Builders and Construction Pvt Ltd, and illegally allotted tenders, thereby amassing illgotten money to the tune of ₹400 crore. He also bought properties in Ludhiana, Ropar, Mohali, and Chandigarh, amounting to ₹26 crore with the money. The vigilance case against him and others was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-raids-punjab-s-fastway-cable-network-owner-gurdeep-singh-101637823629099.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Shakti Mills gang rape case: Bombay HC sets aside death penalty for 3 convicts||The Bombay high court on Thursday commuted the death sentence handed down to three men convicted of gang-raping a 23-year-old photojournalist at Mumbai’s defunct Shakti Mills compound in August 2013 into life imprisonment while upholding life term for the fourth convict.A sessions court in March 2014 sentenced Vijay Jadhav, Mohammad Qasim Shaikh Bengali and Mohammed Salim Ansari to death. This was the first of its kind sentence under the new rape law enacted following the 2012 gang rape and murder of a Delhi student. The amended law provided for the death sentence to repeat rape convicts. The three were also sentenced to life imprisonment for gang-raping a 19-year-old call centre employee at the same place in July 2013. The fourth convict in the case, Siraj Rehman, was sentenced to life.A high court division bench of justices Sadhana Jadhav and Prithviraj Chavan was hearing the confirmation reference case and appeal against the sessions court order since October.Advocates Yug Chaudhry and Payoshi Roy, who represented the convicts, argued the trial court wrongly applied Section 376 E of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which says a repeat rape offender will have to be imprisoned for the rest of life or sentenced to death. They argued the section provides for the death penalty to a repeat offender convicted for offences punishable under IPC Sections 376, 376 A and 376 D. They said the trials in both the cases of rape were held simultaneously. The lawyers said the trial court passed the conviction order in both cases on the same day. They added punishment was pronounced in the call centre employee rape case and the prosecution was accordingly allowed to charge the convicts under Section 376 E in the second case.Also Read: Former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati, 2 others get life term in gang rape caseChaudhry argued section 376 E can be applied only if convicts have once undergone a sentence and not reformed despite having the opportunity to reform. He added this was not so in the case of the three.Principal sessions court judge Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi awarded the maximum punishment to the three basing the decision on the extent of cruelty. “Conviction cannot be dependent on the social and the economic status of the victim or the accused and the race, caste, creed of the accused cannot be taken into consideration,” she said.Chaudhry submitted the trial was conducted in an unfair way with the inadequate opportunity to the defence to make submissions on framing of charge under section 376E and on the quantum of sentence after conviction.The defence lawyers said the convicts were deprived of basic fundamental rights, pointing to their impoverished backgrounds. They added their socio-economic circumstances led the men to be violent and commit such an offence, therefore, their sentence be commuted.The defence lawyers said the convicts were young and were not subject to any correctional influence earlier. They argued, therefore, they do not deserve the death sentence. The state government opposed the contentions and said the trial court order was justified and the death sentence be confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shakti-mills-gang-rape-case-bombay-hc-sets-aside-death-penalty-for-3-convicts-101637823507577.html
25-11-2021||Patna||TVs, fridges: Bihar govt announces lucky draw to boost Covid-19 vaccination||The Bihar government has announced a lucky draw for prizes such as TVs and refrigerators until December 31 for those taking the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine as part of efforts to boost the vaccination coverage and fully inoculate the state’s 73.44 million eligible adult population.“The lucky draw competition will be open to the public between November 27 and December 31,” said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Wednesday. He added every block will have one winner eligible for a bumper prize while 10 others will receive consolation prizes weekly till December 31.Pandey said 2,670 people will receive bumper, 26,700 consolation, and 114 monthly grand prizes at the district level.Bihar’s second dose vaccination coverage has been low. The state has administered 77.23 million Covid-19 vaccine doses till Wednesday. As many as 53.21 million have taken the first shot and 24.02 million are fully vaccinated. The state wants to inoculate most of its eligible adult population by the year-end.Also Read: India’s single-day Covid death toll dips, recovery rate highest since March 2020Pandey underlined single shot of the vaccine does not guarantee protection.Manzoor Khan, a councillor in Bihar’s Katihar district, in June introduced the idea of gifts such as TV sets through a lucky draw to encourage people to take the jabs. The move led to a record 800 people in the district turning up at a vaccination centre to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tvs-fridges-bihar-govt-announces-lucky-draw-to-boost-covid-19-vaccination-101637822187257.html
25-11-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: In Karnataka, 90% beneficiaries vaccinated with at least first dose||More than 90 per cent eligible beneficiaries in Karnataka have taken at least the first dose of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, the state health department has said, adding that the figure was achieved after more than 857,000 doses were administered on November 24. The state’s vaccination coverage on Wednesday was the third-highest in the country, after Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the health department further said.Also Read | Covid-19: Karnataka issues new RT-PCR test norms for people coming from Maharashtra“State achieves milestone of vaccinating more than 90% eligible beneficiaries (above 18 years) with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. First dose coverage: 44,026,923 out of estimated 48,916,000 18+ population,” the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services reported citing data from the Union government’s CoWIN vaccination portal. State achieves milestone of vaccinating more than 90% eligible beneficiaries (above 18 years) with atleast one dose of COVID-19 vaccine.First dose coverage: 4,40,26,923Estimated 18+ population = 4,89,16,000(as per 2021 projections) pic.twitter.com/A4SqXuva64The portal showed that as of 10pm on November 24, Karnataka’s cumulative vaccination coverage, since the nationwide inoculation exercise began on January 16, stood at 71,773,178. The total first dose coverage was at 44,026,923 while the corresponding figures for dose 2 were 27,746,255.The southern state’s final daily vaccination tally was recorded at 857,445, only behind Madhya Pradesh (1,943,125) and Uttar Pradesh (1,572,330). Maharashtra (824,313), West Bengal (666,345), Bihar (652,456), Gujarat (449,233), Tamil Nadu (349,032), Rajasthan (289,980) and Andhra Pradesh (284,807) were the next seven states on the list.
25-11-2021||Delhi||5 hospitalised due to toxic gas leakage in Delhi's RK Puram||At least five people have been hospitalised after complaining of itchy eyes, reportedly due to exposure to a toxic gas leak at Ekta Vihar in South Delhi's RK Puram on Wednesday night, news agency ANI reported. Fire tenders and two ambulances as well as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) team reached the spot to assess the situation.The incident took place at around 9:15pm at Ekta Vihar. Five persons who were complaining of itching in their eyes were taken to Safdarjung hospital in an ambulance while two others were taken by PCR. Those admitted have been discharged and are safe. It is not clear yet as to what caused the gas leakage.“No fire in any gas cylinder, no fumes emerging out from any place in the Ekta Vihar area. Further, necessary action is being taken,” the Delhi Police told news agency ANI.The situation is under control, the police said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-hospitalised-due-to-toxic-gas-leakage-in-delhi-s-rk-puram-101637815591763.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Network of airports being created in Uttar Pradesh. Check details of flights||Uttar Pradesh is slowly becoming a hub of airports in India. The state already has three operational international airports in Lucknow, Varanasi and Kushinagar. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport (NIA) in Jewar.Next year, an international airport will come up in Ayodhya that will make Uttar Pradesh the only state across the country to have these many airports, facilitating international travel, reported Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan.According to Livehindustan, international airports in Uttar Pradesh are providing flights to several countries majorly in Asia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).The Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi provides flights to Bangkok, Colombo, Kathmandu, according to the Livehindustan report.The recently inaugurated Kushinagar International Aiport in Kushinagar provides direct flights to Singapore, South Korea, China, Vietnam, Taiwan etc, the report added.The Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow facilitates travel to Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Bangkok, Singapore and Sharjah among others.Meanwhile, domestic airports in Uttar Pradesh are situated in Agra, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Bareilly.In Kanpur, the domestic airport in Chakeri provides flights to the national capital Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Goa etc.The Prayagraj airport provides flights to Delhi, Gorakhpur, Dehradun, Bhubaneswar among other major cities. In September this year, the airport had catered to more than a million passengers, becoming the third such airport in Lucknow and Varanasi to achieve this milestone.Meanwhile, the airport in Agra is also serving as a military airbase apart from regular civilian flight travel. The Livehindustan report said on Thursday that the airport's runway is around 9,000 feet long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/network-of-airports-being-created-in-uttar-pradesh-check-details-of-flights-101637810227925.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Driverless train to begin on Delhi Metro's Pink Line from today||Driverless train operations on Delhi Metro's 57-kilometre Pink Line will begin from Thursday. Union urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot will flag the driverless train at 11.30 am via video conferencing."Driverless Train Operations on Delhi Metro's Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) will be inaugurated on 25th Nov 2021 (Thursday) at 11:30 am via video conferencing," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a tweet on Wednesday.This is the second such train facility to be inaugurated by the Delhi Metro. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the country's first-ever driverless train on the Magenta Line and launched National Common Mobility Card on the Airport Express Line.The Prime Minister had also said that metro services will be expanded to over 25 cities by 2025.Last year, the DMRC officials had said that driverless trains on the Pink Line would begin by mid-2021. However, it got delayed as metro services were affected due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The Pink Line was made functional in the year 2019. And by August this year, it became the longest operational corridor of the Delhi Metro network after the missing section between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations was inaugurated.Currently, the Delhi Metro expands to nearly 392 km with 286 stations including the Noida–Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurugram.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driverless-train-to-begin-on-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-from-today-101637806530554.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality still ‘very poor’; min temp likely around 10 degrees C||New Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Thursday, with the minimum temperature likely to hover around 10 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), New Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) reading was 387 at 7am on Thursday. On Wednesday, the AQI of the Capital was 361.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.On Wednesday, the minimum temperature recorded at Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station, considered as the official marker for the city’s weather, was 9.2 degrees Celsius - two degrees below normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was 28.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal, the IMD said.Also Read: NO2 levels hazardous in many traffic-heavy areasAt the Aya Nagar observatory, the minimum temperature fell to 8.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal. Aya Nagar was among the top 10 localities in northwest India that recorded lowest minimum temperatures on Wednesday, according to the IMD’s regional meteorological centre. Forecasters said the drop in Wednesday’s temperature was because of clear skies over Delhi in the previous two days. Met officials said clear skies result in faster cooling of the Earth’s surface, causing the mercury to drop. “The forecast for Thursday and Friday is that temperatures may rise by 1-2 degrees Celsius,” a senior IMD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-still-very-poor-mercury-may-drop-to-10-degrees-celsius-101637808626621.html
25-11-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway rolls back platform ticket price hike in Mumbai||The Central Railway has decided to reduce the price of platform ticket at key stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region from ₹50 to ₹10 from Thursday, an official said. The platform ticket price will be reduced at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Thane, Kalyan and Panvel railway stations, he said. Earlier this year, Mumbai division of the Central Railway had increased the price of platform ticket from ₹10 to ₹50 at these stations to discourage overcrowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-rolls-back-platform-ticket-price-hike-in-mumbai-101637798689293.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||MCDs’ cash shortage delays RFID lanes at city border toll points||A crippling financial crisis in the municipal corporations has delayed the second phase of a project to install radio frequency ID (RFID) compliant lane system for collecting toll tax at Delhi’s borders in order to ease congestion and stop old, polluting vehicles from entering Delhi.The Supreme Court ordered SDMC to install RFID tag system at border points to collect toll and environment compensation cess (ECC). In the first phase, the civic body installed RFID system at 13 border points in January 2019. The civic body was expected to equip 10 additional border entry points of the capital with boom barriers and RFID infrastructure by January 2021.A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said the expansion will require at least ₹11-12 crore, and the civic body has no funds for the project. “The phase-1 of the project was implemented using Rs120 crore collected as environment compensation charges (ECC), on the directions of the Supreme Court and Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA). The Commission For Air Quality Management directed to implement the second phase of the project, but there is no clarity on funding” an SDMC official said asking not to be named.Delhi has 124 border entry points of which only 13 has RFID tag system. Hand-held devices are used at other points to collect toll tax and ECC.On August 14, 2020, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation -- the nodal agency to implement RFID project -- announced that all toll plazas will get hand held devices to read RFID chips by November 2020, and proper tag infrastructure will be installed at ten additional border points by January 2021.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, in his budget speech on Tuesday, said 111 border entry points have hand held devices for toll collection, and a central control room has been set up in Moti Nagar to all major entry points. “The control room detects the vehicles which attempt to bypass the system without paying toll tax and ECC,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-cash-shortage-delays-rfid-lanes-at-city-border-toll-points-101637796539240.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mehndi artist held with 930g heroin in Ludhiana||A roadside mehndi artist, who had taken up drug peddling to supplement his income, was arrested with 930g heroin from the Lakkar Bazaar area on Wednesday. The accused, Surinder Kumar, 30, of Jaitu village, Faridkot, was arrested during a raid in the Lakkar Bazaar area, following a tip-off. Apart from the large quantity of narcotics, around 45 empty pouches, and a small weighing machine was also recovered from the mehndi artist. At present, Kumar was staying near Gurudwara Dukhniwaran in Prem Nagar. STF (Ludhiana range) in-charge inspector Harbans Singh said, “The accused has been supplying heroin for around four years. He already has three cases of drug peddling registered against him.”“The accused works as a roadside mehndi artist, but was making little money so he started supplying heroin. He is also addicted to drugs,” said the inspector, adding that the accused’s mobile phone had also been seized. A case was registered under the Narcotics Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act at the STF police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehndi-artist-held-with-930g-heroin-in-ludhiana-101637792845584.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana town planner summons action-taken report against 102 hotels with parking violations||With congested roads and lack of parking spaces becoming chronic issues, senior town planner SS Bindra has sought an action-taken report against the 102 hotels that were found to have violated parking regulations in 2020. In a letter issued to the assistant town planners (ATPs) of all four zones, Bindra also directed officials to conduct a fresh survey and include other hotels with building violations in the list of violators. Of the 102 hotels on the town planners’ radar, 25 fall in Zone A, nine in Zone B, four in Zone C and 64 in Zone D. In 2018, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had moved court against 109 hotels with building violations. During the course of it, a complaint was also submitted to the MC asking it to identify other hotels in the city, which could not be covered in the petition. As many as 102 hotels had been identified in the survey that ensued. The RTI activist alleged that the civic body was loath to take action against parking violations. “Many prominent hotels are included in the list of violators and the matter is sub-judice in the high court, but the authorities are still turning a blind eye to the issue,” he said. Bindra said that MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had sought an action-taken report, following which the report was summoned from ATPs. “As the ATPs have not yet submitted the report, a reminder has also been forwarded. They have also been directed to conduct a fresh survey and include the remaining hotels, if any, with parking violations to the list .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-town-planner-summons-action-taken-report-against-102-hotels-with-parking-violations-101637792545687.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: No water, no votes, say protesting Dugri residents||Grappling with erratic water supply for 15 years, residents of Dugri village have threatened to vote against the Congress in the upcoming assembly elections should the issue continue to persist. Staging a protest on Wednesday, the residents of Ward 43 said Congress councillor Reet Kaur and halqa in-charge Kamaljit Karwal had failed to pay heed to the problem. The residents have also apprised the chief minister, cabinet ministers and the mayor of the issue and their decision. The residents urged the chief minister have the issue resolved or they will not vote for the Congress candidate from Atam Nagar constituency. The issue is being faced in around 50 houses on two streets. Residents say supply to the area is disrupted every two to three days, and they have to borrow water from residents on neighbouring streets. A resident, on condition of anonymity, said, “The municipal corporation is prompt to deliver the water-sewer bills, but not so much in streamlining the water supply.” A protester, Jaswinder Kaur, said, “ We have to bring water from neighbours in buckets. Tall promises are made during election season, but there is no follow through. As Congress is in power in the state, and our ward is also represented by a Congress councillor, the party and its representatives are accountable. We will not vote for them, if the problem is not resolved, and Congress leaders should also not come to the area seeking votes.” Residents say that whenever the matter is raised before councillor Reet Kaur and her husband Rupinder Pal Sheela, they tell them to contact Karwal. “However, Karwal fails to come through, and his staff is rude to us,” they said. Another resident, Nirmal Kaur, said that a new tubewell had been installed in the area a few months back, but it was not being operated. “If it is operated properly, the problem will be resolved, but the councillor is turning a blind eye to the issue.” Despite, repeated attempts, Congress halqa incharge Kamaljit Karwal remained unavailable for comments. Councillor Reet Kaur’s husband Rupinder Singh said, “A tubewell was specially installed in the area a few months ago to resolve the issue as these houses are situated at a certain height above the ground level. However, the tubewell supplied saline water and residents started falling ill, which is why its use was discontinued. We are trying to find another solution.” In turn, Rupinder slammed MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains for not paying attention to the residents’ issues. Residents paying monthly water supply charges to neighboursWith authorities failing to ensure regular water supply, residents have started paying their neighbours who have submersible pumps installed in their respective houses for the service. One of the residents, Binderjit Kaur said,” We are paying ₹2,000 per month to our neighbours who have got a submersible pump installed in their house. Water is supplied to our house through a pipe. We have submitted repeated complaints with the councillor, but to no avail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianano-water-no-votes-say-protesting-dugri-residents-101637792187387.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||SAD choses RD Sharma over Vijay Danav in multi-cornered contest in Ludhiana north constituency||Putting all speculations to rest, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday announced RD Sharma’s candidature from the Ludhiana (North) constituency for the upcoming assembly polls. Political pundits were predicting that the SAD would field a Dalit candidate from the constituency, which has a sizeable Dalit population. The name of prominent Dalit leader Vijay Danav had also being doing the rounds. It was being said that Danav was asked to fight on the BSP symbol; however he refused. Sharma, a three-time councilor from Ludhiana, has also been the deputy mayor of the city’s municipal corporation. His mother is a sitting councillor from the ward that Sharma represented. He had joined the SAD after quitting the BJP along with former minister Anil Joshi in August.On Tuesday, SAD had swapped Ludhiana (north) seat with alliance partner Bahujan Samaj party (BSP). RD Sharma, who was booked for murder in March 2014, was later given a clean chit in the alleged honour killing case involving a 22-year-old youngster, whose body was recovered from a train track at Salem Tabri, had deserted BJP over the farm laws.Multipronged fight At present, five-time Congress MLA Rakesh Panday of the Congress holds the seat. However, Panday, had also found himself mired in controversy after his son was appointed tehsildar on compassionate grounds. He was offered a job as Panday’s father and former Congress MLA Joginderpal Panday had been assassinated.Panday had won the election by a margin of 5,132 votes, defeating joint SAD- BJP candidate Praveen Bansal.Former Akali leader Madan Lal Bagga who had then fought as an independent candidate had received 12,136 votes while councillor Randhir Singh Sivia of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) had received 20,387 votes. Madan Lal Bagga, who has been recently appointed as halka in-charge of the AAP is the front runner in the constituency. The BJP will also field its own candidate from the seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sadchoses-rd-sharma-over-vijay-danav-in-multi-cornered-contest-in-ludhiana-north-constituency-101637790625731.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tensions run high after 2 bovine carcasses found in Jeevan Nagar in Ludhiana||A day after bovine remains were found in a drain in Malerkotla, tension gripped Jeewan Nagar after suspected remains of two cows and a 6-month-old fetus were found dumped in a vacant plot near Jeewan Nagar police post on Wednesday.The incident came to light when a rag picker saw the heads, tails, and legs of the two cows lying separately at a garbage site in a vacant plot. Soon, members of right-wing Hindu outfits as well as members of the Cow Welfare Society reached the spot and staged a protest, seeking the arrest of the accused involved in slaughtering cows.Joint commissioner of police Ravcharan Singh Brar, additional deputy commissioners of police Rupinder Kaur Sra and Davinder Chaudhary reached the spot and pacified the protestors.Brar said a case had been registered against unidentified persons and a team was scanning CCTV cameras in the area to trace the accused. Meanwhile, the body parts of the cow and the foetus recovered from the spot have been sent for postmortem.Right-wing organisations have said that if the culprits were not arrested till Monday, they will stage a protest for an indefinite period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tensions-run-high-after-2-bovine-carcasses-found-in-jeevan-nagar-in-ludhiana-101637790145417.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||11,000 illegal water-sewer connections detected in 15 days in Ludhiana||In the course of a door-to-door survey to regularise illegal water-sewer connections under the one-time settlement policy, civic body teams detected around 11,000 illegal connections in the last 15 days.Around 2,300 connections were detected in Zone A, 3,447 in Zone B, 2,600 in Zone C and 2,600 in Zone D. Officials say the survey will go on till Wednesday evening, and more such connections will be detected. Over ₹50 lakh has been recovered from violators for regularising the connections under the OTS policy.The mayor had ordered a door-to-door survey in the city on November 9 after the OTS policy garnered a poor response. Under the OTS policy floated by the state government on August 25, residents could get their connections regularised at nominal rates (less than 10% of the regular fee) till Wednesday. Now, residents will have to pay a 100 % penalty on the concessional fee imposed under the policy, if they get the connection regularised till February 24. After that, normal rates will be applicable.Under the policy, residents were also given a chance to submit their pending water-sewer arrears without interest and penalty till Wednesday. The policy said that no penalty or interest will be charged on principal amount if the payment of pending user charges is made within three months (till November 24) of the notification, while only penalty will be waived off if the amount is paid after three months but within six months (till February 24). After six months, the user will have to pay both penalty and interest on the pending amount and the connection will also be disconnected on non-payment of dues. Superintending engineer,Rajinder Singh said residents can still get their connections regularised under the policy, as even after imposing 100% penalty, the fee is far less than the normal fee for getting the connections regularised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11000-illegal-water-sewer-connections-detected-in-15-days-in-ludhiana-101637789665405.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||No-confidence motion against Patiala mayor a litmus test for Capt Amarinder||The no-confidence motion moved by councillors against Patiala mayor and former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s protégé Sanjiv Bittu has turned into a litmus test for Amarinder. For the last three days, nearly 20 councillors are staying at Amarinder’s residence, New Moti Bagh Palace.In bid to prevent any poaching, the ex-CM’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur has asked the councillors to stay put till the civic body’s House test. But this has drawn the ire of the party high command with Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge and AICC secretary Harish Chaudhry sending Preneet a show-cause notice for indulging in anti-party activities and siding with Amarinder instead of the party.Apart from the 60 councillors, three MLAs — Amarinder, cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra and Akali Dal’s Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra — are ex-officio members of the corporation. To pass the no-confidence motion, the mayor needs support of one-third councillors. The mayor said Amarinder will lead the councillors from New Moti Bagh Palace to the MC office, fearing that the state government will use unfair means to stop them from supporting him during the voting. “I have the numbers. But the government is threatening the councillors. I have requested Capt Amarinder to lead from front,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/noconfidence-motion-against-patiala-mayor-a-litmus-test-for-capt-amarinder-101637787625294.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress notice to Amarinder’s wife Preneet Kaur over ‘anti-party’ activities||The Congress on Wednesday issued a notice to Patiala MP Preneet Kaur seeking explanation for her alleged “anti-party activities” and open announcements about siding with her husband, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the party three weeks ago. All India Congress Committee secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Choudhary served the notice to the former Union minister of state who has been told to reply within seven days otherwise the party will be forced to take necessary disciplinary action. Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 after a bitter tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and revolt by four ministers and several party legislators in the state Congress. The two-time former CM quit the Congress on November 2 and announced his separate party, Punjab Lok Congress, hinting at a “seat arrangement” with the BJP. In the notice, Choudhary said they have been continuously receiving reports from Congress workers, MLAs, leaders from Patiala and the media for the last many days about her anti-party activities. “This information and news has been coming ever since your husband Capt Amarinder Singh Ji resigned from the party and floated his own party. We are also made aware of your open announcements in the media about siding with your husband’s party,” reads the notice. Kaur did not respond to calls. However, sources close to her said that she has not received the notice so far. Kaur, while talking to reporters at an event in Samana on Sunday, had indicated that she may join the political party being set up by her husband. “Capt Amarinder Singh has always stood by the commitment he makes. Main apne parivaar de naal haan (I am with my family),” she said in response to a query whether she would join her husband’s political outfit. The notice was issued by the Congress to the four-time Lok Sabha member hours before the crucial general house meeting of the Patiala Municipal Corporation, scheduled for Thursday, to decide the fate of city mayor Sanjiv Bittu. Of the 60 municipal councillors, 42 had sent a requisition to Bittu, a Captain loyalist, more than a week ago, expressing their lack of confidence in him. A senior Congress leader claimed that Kaur has been openly mustering support for Bittu and even went with some councillors to meet Capt Amarinder after he had quit the party and slogans were raised in his (former CM’s) support. “This has not gone well with the party leadership,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-notice-to-amarinder-s-wife-preneet-kaur-over-anti-party-activities-101637786786908.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s sex ratio at birth improves, but still below national average||Sex ratio at birth in Punjab witnessed an improvement in the last five years even as it continues to remain below the national average, reveal the findings of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS 2020-21). The state’s child sex ratio at birth increased to 904 from 860 in 2015-16 while the latest national average for the same is 929. According to the survey, the sex ratio at birth is 858 in urban pockets and 931 in rural areas of Punjab. Also, the state improved its overall sex ratio (females per 1,000 males) from 905 in 2015-16 to 938 against the country’s overall figure of 1,020. However, the state fared badly in terms of certain indicators vis-à-vis women empowerment. The percentage of women married before 18 in the state went up to 8.7% from 7.6% in the previous survey. Similarly, the percentage of women in the 15-19 age group, who were already mothers at the time of the survey, also increased to 3.1% against the earlier 2.5%. The adolescent fertility rate for women aged 15 to 19 increased to 21% from 20%. Institutional deliveries go up The state improved further in institutional births with the fresh survey revealing that 94.3% of the deliveries held in the institutions as compared to 90.5% in 2015-16. The percentage of deliveries via caesarean section also increased sharply to 38.5% from 24.6% in the previous survey. Private healthcare centres facilitated more C-section deliveries (15.8%) as compared to 12.1% in public health facilities. Besides, the average out-of-pocket expenditure per delivery also went up from ₹1,890 to ₹3,745. Obesity among women increasesThe survey found that the ratio of overweight or obese women increased to 40.8% as compared to 31.3% in the previous survey. On the other hand, it increased to 32.2% against 27.8% among men. Due to the pandemic outbreak, the phase 2 fieldwork for the survey was conducted in two parts. In Punjab, it was conducted by the Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses from January 5, 2020, to March 21, 2020, before the lockdown and from December 6, 2020, to March 31, 2021, after the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-sex-ratio-at-birth-improves-but-still-below-national-average-101637786785744.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery suspect who fired at cop yet to land in net||The man, a suspected robber, who had fired at a home guards volunteer of the Chandigarh Police on Tuesday night while he was chasing him in the Industrial Area, is yet to be identified and caught. The condition of home guards volunteer, Prakash Singh Negi, 40, of Uttarakhand, is said to be stable. Negi has sustained a bullet injury in his stomach. The splinters were removed from his body, but the bullet is still inside. Negi, along with his colleagues, was on November 18 present at a naka set up in the Industrial Area following a tip-off that a robber had fled after stealing jewellery from a store in Elante Mall at gunpoint. The CCTV footage procured by the police show unarmed Negi chasing the suspect who fired at him to avoid being caught. The police on Wednesday recreated the scene and have rounded up a number of youths, but are still to make a breakthrough. “Negi is recovering and teams are deployed to trace the accused,” said Ketan Bansal, SP (City), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbery-suspect-who-fired-at-cop-yet-to-land-in-net-101637786485691.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Include withdrawal of I-T cases against us in demand list: Punjab arhtiyas to SKM||The Punjab Arhtiyas Association has asked the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to include the withdrawal of cases registered against its member commission agents by the income tax department during the farmers’ agitation in the list of demands to be taken up with the central government. Association president Vijay Kalra said, “I talked to morcha leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Gurnam Singh Charuni. We supported the farmers in their difficult time and also faced consequences. If these cases are not withdrawn, it will take us years to fight them.” The premises of six commission agents — two in Patiala, one each in Makhu, Rajpura, Samana and Nawanshahr — were raided in December last year and they were served notices for income tax violations. The premises of Kalra were also raided with I-T officials seizing records, which according to him are still with the department. Most of those raided are office-bearers of the association and they had publically announced their support to the protesting farmers. Rajewal said, “The arhtiyas also suffered when our protest started at the Delhi borders. We will certainly raise their issue when we meet the central government representatives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/include-withdrawal-of-i-t-cases-against-us-in-demand-list-punjab-arhtiyas-to-skm-101637786485226.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Alert cop catches purse snatcher||An alert assistant sub-inspector (ASI) caught hold of a snatcher running away with the purse of an elderly woman near the light point of sectors 44/45/50/51, Chandigarh Police said on Wednesday. ASI Gajraj Singh from Sector-34 police station arrested Mehtab Ali, 28, of Burail after chasing him for 100 metres on Tuesday evening. The complainant, Asha Rani, 57, of Sector 20, told the police that she worked at PSPCL office in Mohali, and was waiting for her husband on a cycle track near the traffic junction when the snatcher struck. Asha said she raised an alarm and a passerby chased the snatcher and caught him. It later came to the fore that the person was ASI Gajraj Singh, who was going to join his duty when he heard the woman’s cries for help. She said her purse contained ₹600 and some important documents. The FIR in the case has been registered under sections 379A (snatching) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-alert-cop-catches-purse-snatcher-101637786425253.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||3 set Adampur book shop on fire, youth dies in blaze||A youth died after he was caught in blaze after he along with his two aides set a book shop on fire in Adampur town of Jalandhar district in the wee hours of Wednesday, police said. One of the aides of the deceased, identified as Pardeep Kumar, received serious burn injuries. Their third accomplice fled from the spot. The other two are Jatinder Singh and Simranjit Singh. The three, in their mid twenties, are from Jalandhar city. Adampur assistant superintendent of police Ajay Gandhi rushed to the spot. Jatinder, who suffered 80% burn injuries, was taken in custody and was referred to the Government Medical College, Amritsar, he said. A case of attempt to murder and other sections of Indian Penal Code was registered on the statement of the book shop owner at the Adampur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-set-adampur-book-shop-on-fire-youth-dies-in-blaze-101637786245412.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Construction of Mohali’s second fire station begins at Sector 78||Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of the city’s second fire station at Sector 78 for which the construction work has also begun. At present, there is one fire station in Phase 1 and the proposal for the second one had been hanging fire for the past three years. MLA Sidhu said there was an urgent need for another fire station in the area. “The new fire station building would be constructed on 2.5 acres at a cost of ₹3 crore,” he said, adding that on 11,243 square ft area, building to accommodate firemen and other staff will come up. Sidhu said that Mohali was constantly expanding and there was a large area under GMADA which, despite not being under Mohali municipal corporation jurisdiction, was being provided emergency services. He said additional vehicles and other equipment would be brought from the fire station in Phase 1 industrial area of Mohali and more machinery will be procured as required. Among others present on the occasion were Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi and MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/construction-of-mohali-s-second-fire-station-begins-at-sector-78-101637786185174.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Nepalese men who robbed mother-son duo part of Mumbai gang: Chandigarh Police||Two Nepalese men, who were arrested for robbing their employers after drugging them, are a part of an organised gang based in Mumbai, Chandigarh Police said on Wednesday. Milan Sonu and Deepinder Bahadur worked as domestic helps in a Sector-36 house and had on October 22 stolen cash and jewellery after sedating their employers — Sarvajit Kaur, 89, and her NRI son Surinder Pal Singh, 69. They were arrested from ISBT 43 while they were planning to flee to Mumbai on Monday night. The police said that their gang operates from Mumbai and the accused were also going to join their other associates. As per the police, a few gang members have already been arrested by the Mumbai police. Their associates would be brought to the city as the stolen items are with them, the investigating officials said. The accused are on a seven day-police remand. The police had said that Bahadur was working at the house for a long time, but later left the job and made Milan his replacement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nepalese-men-who-robbed-mother-son-duo-part-of-mumbai-gang-chandigarh-police-101637786065306.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||NHM workers seeking regularisation protest in Sangrur||Hundreds of National Health Mission (NHM) workers on Wednesday held a protest march and burnt an effigy of the Punjab government to press for their demand of regularisation on the 9th day of their strike in Sangrur. Raising slogans, Wahid Mohammed, a protester, said that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi passed an Act in the Punjab assembly on November 11 and announced to regularise a total of 36,000 employees but the department has not received a copy of the Act so far. Amanpreet Kaur, another protester, said that the Congress had promised to regularise them in the 2017 state polls but the then CM Amarinder Singh did not pay heed to their demand for the past four-and-a-half years. “Though the new CM passed an Act and announced regularisation, the government has not sent any notification to the departments concerned yet,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nhm-workers-seeking-regularisation-protest-in-sangrur-101637785885667.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal’s pre-poll promises are mere ‘lollipops’: Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday hit out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying the latter’s pre-poll promises were mere “lollipops”. This come s a day after Kejriwal praised the Congress leader for raising issues against his party government in Punjab. Sidhu, who was in Amritsar for the inauguration of development works to the tune of ₹24 crore, “If you give a lollipop of 26 lakh jobs to people, it means that if you will have to pay ₹30,000 per employee. For this, you need ₹93,000 crore. Then for giving ₹1,000 for every woman will require ₹12000 crore. Also, ₹3,600 crore is needed for free power up to 2 kW connections. These three announcements (by Kejriwal) require ₹1.10 lakh crore where Punjab’s total budget is ₹72,000 crore.”He said their Punjab model is about filling the state’s coffers. “I also praise him (Kejriwal) as he has done good work in Delhi. But Punjab and Delhi are different. Delhi is self-dependent while Punjab has a debt of ₹7 lakh crore,” he added. Taking a jibe at former CM Amarinder Singh, Sidhi said those who attack CM Charanjit Singh Channi were playing in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi like puppets due to fear of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). “CM Channi’s intent is right. What they couldn’t do in four years, he has done in three months,” he said.‘People won’t fall prey to populist schemes’Also in a series of tweets, Sidhu said people would not fall prey to populist schemes without a policy framework and defined budget allocations. He said the state needed a policy-based structural transformation of its economy. “Schemes are just made to take credit, a fast-paced reaction to popular demands, without thought of governance and economy. True leaders will not give lollipops but will focus on building foundations of society and economy,” he said. The comments came days after Kejriwal and Channi announced populist promises and concessions in the run-up to the assembly polls. On Monday, the Punjab CM had also announced capping of cable TV connection rate at ₹100 per month. Without directly referring to Channi’s announcement, Sidhu said he introduced the Punjab Entertainment Taxes Bill to end to strengthen local operators and end one firm’s monopoly, making it pay due taxes to government and then transfer the benefit of cheaper connections to people. “Sops will empty the state treasury and kill livelihoods and do nothing to truly uplift the poor and eradicate tyranny of multiple-system operators such as FastWay,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arvind-kejriwal-s-pre-poll-promises-are-mere-lollipops-navjot-sidhu-101637785647178.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cable connection for ₹100 not feasible, say Punjab operators||Cable operators from Punjab on Wednesday criticised chief minister Charanjit Channi for his statement on capping cable charges at ₹100 per connection. Addressing a press conference, president of the Cable Operators Union, Punjab, Sunny Singh Gill said regulating the prices of cable networks was out of the purview of the state government as only Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has the right to fix these rates. “If the chief minister is sure that state government can do so, he should immediately ask his officials to issue a notification in this regard,” he said. The operators said chief minister’s statement will further deteriorate the already dying cable industry. “As per the TRAI regulations, ₹130-plus GST is being fixed that we can charge from customers for free-to-air channels. Out of this, 45% ( ₹65) belong to cable operators whereas rest goes multi-system operator (MSO). We have to bear all expenses right from the level of manpower to operating and the cable network,” he said. The operators said that if a customer wants to see any paid channel, of 10% of the amount goes to cable operator and the MSO each whereas rest of the money goes to the channels. “This means if any customer is having package of ₹300, a cable operator on an average earns ₹80-85. Now, can the state government tell is it viable to cap the fee at ₹100,” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cable-connection-for-rs-100-not-feasible-say-punjab-operators-101637785585161.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Now, PU forms panel to consider employees’ grievances||Panjab University (PU), which is functioning without a governing body, has constituted a special committee that will consider the grievances of varsity employees.The PU syndicate had authorised the vice-chancellor to form such a panel during a meeting in 2016. The communication in this regard was issued on Wednesday to varsity’s teaching departments, its regional centres and constituent colleges. The development comes at a time when PU is functioning without a senate, which is varsity’s apex governing body, and syndicate. According to the PU calendar, the executive government of the university will be vested in the syndicate.“As per the authorisation given by the syndicate on February 27, 2016/March 14, 2016 (paragraph 49), the competent authority has constituted a ‘Grievance Redressal Committee’ on the pattern of standing committee, to consider the grievances of university employees, on behalf of the syndicate,” reads the communication issued by the varsity.In 2016, while considering the recommendation of the standing committee regarding the refixation of date of placement in lecturer selection grade/associate professor of a varsity teacher, PU syndicate had resolved that the V-C be authorised to constitute a grievances redressal committee to consider the grievances of PU employees, on the behalf of the syndicate. The members of the newly formed panel, which is headed by dean university instruction (DUI), include professor Sukhbir Kaur, president of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) Mritunjay Kumar and professor Rattan Singh of UILS among others.The communication issued by PU stated that all such cases (grievances) of the employees to be received in future will be placed before the committee to examine and give its recommendations for consideration by the authorities.Mritunjay Kumar said, “Although I have not gone through the circular yet, rather than forming such committees, it is better if PU speeds up the constitution of senate and syndicate.”Although the term of the last syndicate ended in December last year, no fresh elections have been held with the constitution of the senate still pending. The last meeting of PU syndicate was held in July last year and the varsity senate had last met in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-pu-forms-panel-to-consider-employees-grievances-101637785225166.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dip in Covid testing rate in Punjab, J&K worries Centre||Citing multiple surges in coronavirus cases in several countries, the Union Health Ministry has written to 13 states, including Punjab, West Bengal, Kerala and Maharashtra, expressing concerns over declining weekly testing rates and spiking positivity rates in some districts. In a letter to Nagaland, Sikkim, Maharashtra, Kerala, Goa, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Ladakh, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stressed on maintaining high testing rates given the recent increase in travelling due to events like marriages, festivals and vacations that have recently concluded or are underway. “A decrease in testing would undermine the actual infection spread within the community,” Bhushan said in the letter. Also, with the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states, prevalence of ILI/SARI and respiratory distress symptoms should be closely monitored, with tests being conducted regularly for timely monitoring and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification, the official underlined. “In the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing, it is very difficult to determine the true level of infection spread in a geography. With a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in Covid cases in recent times and a few developed countries facing even fourth and fifth waves despite high levels of Covid vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil given the unpredictable and contagious nature of the disease. “Hence, all efforts must be implemented to preserve the gains made so far and to prevent deterioration of COVID-19 scenario across the country,” the secretary said. All the 13 states and UTs have been given the same advice though each letter mentions state-specific testing details of particular districts and positivity rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dip-in-covid-testing-rate-in-punjab-j-k-worries-centre-101637785045113.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Poppy seeds do not come under NDPS Act ambit, rules high court||The high court has ordered release of 70 quintals of poppy seed seized by Haryana Police in 2017 from a factory in Kundli area of Sonepat. The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur observed that it is clear that poppy seed has been excluded from the definition of “poppy straw” as the same is used in food and Indian sweets or made into oil, which is largely used for culinary and lighting purposes after it is de-husked. The court was dealing with a plea from one Deepak, who had challenged the May 2019 order of a trial court in which application for release of poppy seeds was dismissed. The 70,950kg of seed was seized in connection with an FIR registered on July 4, 2017, in Sonepat after alleged recovery of poppy husk weighing 2,140kg from a truck, which as per police came out of factory where the seed was later found. The trial court had maintained that there is strong suspicion that the accused were involved in manufacturing poppy husk by bringing raw material in the factory and dismissed the application. In high court, the petitioner had argued they were doing a legal business in the factory in which dalhan, rice, food grain, poppy seeds and oil seeds were processed. The recovery of poppy seeds does not come under the ambit of NDPS Act and the same is not required by the police any more. It was submitted that poppy seeds are perishable in nature and will be spoiled with the passage of time. The court took note of earlier judgments in which it was observed that except for the seed, all other parts of the plant of the species Papaver would fall under the banned “poppy straw” terms. The court while ordering the release said that under these circumstances, the order passed by the trial court cannot be held “good in the eyes of law” and quashed the same. However, the court added that the matter has been decided about ‘superdari’ of poppy seeds and not on merits of the FIR on recovery of poppy husk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poppy-seeds-do-not-come-under-ndps-act-ambit-rules-high-court-101637784686320.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Year after Dera Sacha Sauda man’s murder, NIA team visits Bathinda village||Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday visited Bhagta Bhai Ka village in Bathinda to investigate the murder of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower Manohar Lal Arora.Confirming the development, Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Maluja said an NIA team visited the crime spot and questioned local residents.“This was the first visit of the NIA team to Bathinda in the criminal probe. District police administration had recently handed over the case file to the central agency after the role of foreign-based religious radical groups emerged,” said the SSP.Arora, a foreign exchange trader, was shot dead at his office at Bhagta Bhai Ka on November 20 last year. Deceased’s son Jatinderbir Singh, alias Jimmy, was an accused in a sacrilege cases.During the investigation in another case, Moga district police came across the role of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) in Arora’s murder.The NIA took over the probe in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-after-dera-sacha-sauda-man-s-murder-nia-team-visits-bathinda-village-101637784685121.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana chairman felicitated||The CAT Bar Association organised a function to felicitate Minderjeet Yadav, chairman, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. Association president Rohit Seth said Yadav has worked tirelessly for the welfare of legal fraternity and implemented various schemes and disbursed grants of more than ₹5 crores. These grants have been disbursed to advocates and families of deceased lawyers during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Bar Council chairman gave a grant of ₹1 lakh to the association.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSGraft: EPFO officer, middleman in judicial custody A day after an enforcement officer of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO)’s office in Jagadhri, Yamunanagar, and a middleman were arrested in connection with ₹21-lakh bribery case, a CBI special court has sent them to judicial custody. A case was registered against EPFO officer Anil Kumar and Ashok Gupta, after a firm owner alleged that they sought bribe to close an inquiry against him. The complainant said even as he deposited all dues relating to provident fund of his employees, the EPFO had opened an inquiry against the firm. A trap was laid and both were arrested.Immigration firms to lose licence Mohali subdivisional magistrate Harbans Singh has recommended the cancellation of licences of various immigration firms after conducting surprise checking along with DSP Gursher Singh. The firms are Step Up Education, Phase 5; Best Career, Phase 3B2; Goviza Educational Consultant, Phase 5; Oracle Group, Phase 8B, Industrial Area; RMR Immigration, Phase 5; Landmark Immigration Consultants, Phase 7; Lemonwood Overseas, Phase 5; and High Wing Overseas, Phase 5. These consultants failed to send the monthly statement to the DM’s office, said the SDM. Suicide: 27-year-old jumps before train A 27-year-old man, who was working in a private company, died by suicide after jumping before a train on the Ambala-Kalka railway line in Dera Bassi on Wednesday. The railway police station received the information about a body lying on the tracks around 4 pm. The victim was unmarried and was living alone in a rented accommodation at Dadpura Mohalla in Dera Bassi. According to the family, he was suffering from anxiety and was not going to work.UGC pay scales: PUTA members, ex-senators to meet Manpreet BadalMembers of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) and former senators of PU, who have been elected to the varsity senate in the recent polls as well, are likely to meet Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday to discuss the implementation of UGC seventh pay commission. The elected senate members who will be the part of delegation are Navdeep Goyal and Ronki Ram. The university and college teachers have been demanding the implementation of UGC seventh pay commission by the Punjab government. Programme for entrepreneursThe Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship in partnership with the department of industries and commerce, Punjab, is planning to expand its six-month “Growtherator Ludhiana” programme to Mohali district. “The programme is for budding entrepreneurs to scale their businesses. The idea is to develop a thriving growth ecosystem for entrepreneurship development in Punjab,” said Tejvir Singh, principal secretary, industries and commerce. “Mohali has great entrepreneurial potential and there is a strong need for a robust capacity building architecture for growth to local businesses,” said Isha Kalia, deputy commissioner, Mohali. Man uses fake number plate, heldA 35-year-old resident of Mauli Jagran was arrested for driving a Tempo Traveller with a fake registration number plate. Police said the accused, Sandeep Singh, had defaulted on the loan payments and was using a fake registration number plate to avoid the vehicle being impounded by recovery agents.Liquor smuggler arrestedThe operation cell of Chandigarh Police arrested Rajesh Sexena, 54, of Kumbra village in Mohali for liquor smuggling in Manimajra on Tuesday night. As many as 55 boxes of liquor were recovered from his vehicle. Man held with heroin in Balongi The Mohali police have arrested a drug peddler from Balongi and recovered 42 grams of heroin from his possession. The accused has been identified as Salman Khan. Police are interrogating him to ascertain the supply line and other contracts. Mobile thieves heldTwo men have been arrested for stealing mobile phones from a repair shop at Sadar Bazar in Sector 19 on November 3. They have been identified as Aditya, 25, of Sector 24, and Varun, 24, of PGIMER campus. Both mobile phones have been recovered.Golf: Mehak takes leadShowing off her mettle, Mehar Nijjar emerged the leader with a gross score of 157 in gold division on Day 2 of the 27th Punjab Open Ladies Championship 2021 being held at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Wednesday. She was followed by Diya Brar with a score of 159. Mehar performed well alongside the seasoned golfers to finish as the leader in gold division. In the silver division, Anjali Nagpal is leading with the gross score of 187 followed by Lakhi Swain with a score of 194. In the bronze division, Navina Kahai is leading with a score of 211 followed by Inder Gill at 216.Tennis: Rasha ousts Agampreet to enter semis Rasha Dhaliwal outplayed Agampreet Kaur 7-5,6-1 during the girls U-18 quarterfinals on Wednesday to book her spot in the semi-finals of the All India Tennis Association National Rankings Championships for U-18 being held at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur. In other girls’ U-18 quarterfinal matches, top seed Gursimrat Kaur overpowered Rubani Sidhu (HR) 6-3,7-6(7) while Isheeta Midha beat Mehakpreet Kaur 6-2,6-2 to enter the semi-finals. In the boys’ U-18 quarterfinals, Upnishad Bhardwaj pipped Gurbaaz Singh 6-1,6-2 and Sahajpreet Singh Bajwa defeated Anirudh Sangra (CH) 6-4,6-4 to enter the last four stage.Cricket: Akul shines for YMCA team Led by Akul Bhanot’s brilliant 54-ball knock of 66 runs, YMCA Cricket Club recorded a fine four-wicket win over Mahajan School of Cricket in a match played during the ongoing Saupin’s-32 Gold Cup cricket tournament for U-13 in Mohali on Wednesday. Batting first, Mahajan School of Cricket posted 174 runs in 32.2 overs. In reply, YMCA team made 175 runs losing six wickets in 32.5 overs. Akul hit 10 fours and one six during his 66-run knock for the winning team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bar-council-of-punjab-and-haryana-chairman-felicitated-101637784211884.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic diverted for underpass construction near Zirakpur barrier||Traffic moving towards Zirakpur from Chandigarh will be diverted in view of the ongoing construction of a vehicular underpass near the Zirakpur barrier on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway.As per the advisory issued by the Chandigarh police, the traffic is being diverted from the Hallomajra light point towards the road leading to the Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula, and Baltana/Dhakoli in Zirakpur.Two-wheelers and light motor vehicles can use the service lane from the Airport light point to the Zirakpur barrier, but are advised to keep patience and drive cautiously. Medium and heavy vehicles are not allowed to ply on this stretch.Heavy/medium goods vehicles and buses have been advised to use the road from Tribune Chowk to Transport light point to Housing Board light point to Dhillon Barrier or use road from Tribune Chowk to Faidan Barrier (Sector 47/48), leading to Mohali and to international airport to go towards Zirakpur, Ambala, Patiala or Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traffic-diverted-for-underpass-construction-near-zirakpur-barrier-101637784210686.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Traffic bottlenecks ail old sectors in Ward 17||Ward No. 17 comprises Sectors 22 and 23, which are among the oldest commercial and residential sectors in the city. Besides parking-related issues that plague both market and residential areas in these sectors, the residents complain of non-functional streetlights, sanitation issues and stray dog menace.Before delimitation, Sector 22 was a part of Ward No. 3, which is represented by mayor Ravi Kant Sharma , and Sector 23 was a part of Ward No. 4, which is represented by his BJP colleague Sunita Dhawan.“Sector 23 is one of the oldest markets famous for jewellery and garments shops. The congested parking has a common entrance and exit, leading to a bottleneck. We have been demanding that the entry and exit be separated, and a vacant plot earmarked as a green belt be converted into a parking lot. For the past 10 years, all we are being offered are promises,” says Naresh Mahajan, general secretary, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, and president of the area market association. Ashwani Kumar, who resides in the sector, says non-functional streetlights are a major irritant. “Also, the park near government houses is not maintained and is turning into a garbage dump,” he says. Vinod Vashisht, president of the government houses residents welfare society in the neighbouring Sector 22, says the Shastri Market and mobile market in the sector are choked with vehicles, but nothing is being done to manage the traffic properly. “The ever-increasing number of street vendors is making our lives miserable. They are sitting right up to the boundary wall of government houses and one can hear their noise till late at night,” he says.Jaswinder Nagpal, president, Shastri Market, says: “The street vendors make it difficult for residents to move around. Sanitation is another issue that worries us.”Kultar Singh, a shopkeeper in Sector 22C, says: “The dustbins in our area are broken and garbage is dumped on footpaths. It is not just an eyesore but also an invitation to diseases.” Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma says he has delivered more than what was promised. “I got a sewer pipeline laid in Sector 22, globe lights were installed in markets, and a direct pipeline was laid to solve the problem of low water pressure on upper floors,” he says, adding: “I have already proposed a multilevel parking near Kiran Cinema, which is under consideration.” Councillor Sunita Dhawan says: “I have got sewerage pipes diverted from the N-choe to get rid of the foul smell besides taking measures to check choking of drains.”Know your ward Localities: Sector 22 and Sector 23 General ward Voters: 18,000 Key issues Parking woes and heavy traffic flow leading to bottlenecks Street vendors leave no space for visitors to move in market areasPoor garbage collection and non-functional streetlights Local voicesThere is just one point for entry and exit to the market, which creates a bottleneck and is a safety hazard. Even street vendors make it difficult to move around.Krishan Kumar, president, market association, Sector 22 Haphazard parking is leading to a number of fights in markets and residential areas. We need well managed, not just paid, spaces for parking vehicles. Simranjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 22 The heritage tag is stalling renovation and repair works in this sector. There is also a need for proper lifting of garbage and regular cleaning of public areas. Manoj Bajaj, runs a departmental store in Sector 23 There is need to have proper means to dispose of waste in markets. The small vendors are dumping the waste in open areas, leading to unhygienic conditions. Paramjit Singh, government employee, resident of Sector 23||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traffic-bottlenecks-ail-old-sectors-in-ward-17-101637784209632.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Anil Mehta appointed top law officer||The Chandigarh administration has appointed additional standing counsel Anil Mehta, 37, as the senior standing counsel.Mehta has been appointed for a term of three years in place of justice Pankaj Jain, who was recently elevated as a high court judge. The senior standing counsel is the UT administration’s top law officer on the civil side before the high court.Mehta is an alumnus of the Army Institute of Law, Mohali, and had remained the deputy advocate general, Haryana, between 2014 and 2018. After that, he joined the UT as an additional standing counsel. A first generation lawyer, Mehta is the son of Captain Kulbhushan Mehta (retd). His family belongs to Ambala, where he also studied at the Army School. “My priority will be to reduce pendency of cases in the high court and further streamline case handling system,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhanil-mehta-appointed-top-law-officer-101637784208451.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Active cases in Chandigarh tricity go past 100 again||With 19 fresh cases on Wednesday, the Covid-19 tally continued to rise and remained in double digits for the fourth consecutive day in the tricity. After five cases on Saturday, the tricity recorded 11 cases each on Sunday and Monday and 17 on Tuesday. The tricity’s active caseload also crossed the 100 mark once again, with 105 patients still to recover, including 41 in Mohali, 37 in Chandigarh, and 27 in Panchkula. On Wednesday, Mohali logged nine cases, followed by six in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula. In Mohali district, four cases surfaced in Kharar, two in Mohali city and one each in Dhakoli, Boothgarh, and Dera Bass, In Chandigarh, the patients are from Sectors 8, 15, 38 and 51 besides Dhanas. In Panchkula, two cases were reported from Sector 20 and one each from the ITBP camp and Amravati Enclave. Meanwhile, no Covid-related fatality was reported for fourth consecutive day. Mohali has recorded three deaths this month, while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula. Dengue: 49 more infected with dengue in tricity As many as 49 fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Wednesday, with Mohali reporting 26 cases alone. While 15 people tested positive in Chandigarh, eight cases surfaced in Panchkula. After a peak in October, the number of cases is now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature, as cold weather is not suitable for the breeding of aedes mosquitoes. This year, Mohali’s dengue count has gone up to 3,826, with the death toll at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,422 besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 875, with one death so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-active-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-go-past-100-again-101637784207377.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Accident: Speeding car leaves 57-yr-old man dead in Panchkula||A 57-year-old man from Mauli Jagran died after a speeding car hit his cart near the Ghaggar bridge in Panchkula on Wednesday morning. The car driver managed to flee, though the victim’s nephew managed to note the vehicle registration number.Complainant Vikas of Mauli Jagran told police that he and his paternal uncle Rajpal used to sell clothes on a cart in nearby villages, and were on their way to Ramgarh in the morning.  “At around 10:30am, as we crossed Sector 21 and reached the Ghaggar bridge, a speeding car hit my uncle’s cart before fleeing,” Vikas stated in the FIR.Rajpal was rushed to the Panchkula civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead by a team of doctors.A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station in Sector 5.Zirakpur man killed in Chandigarh mishapA Zirakpur resident succumbed to injuries sustained in an accident near the Poultry Farm Chowk in Chandigarh, police said on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Yograj, aka Yogesh, of Dhakoli in Zirakpur. Police said Yograj was returning home when an unidentified vehicle hit his Activa from the rear around 9:30pm on Monday. Yograj was admitted to GMCH, Sector 32, where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday.A case has been registered under Sections 279, 304A and 337 of the IPC at the police station in Sector 31. Police are trying to trace the accused driver with the help of CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accident-speeding-car-leaves-57-yr-old-man-dead-in-panchkula-101637784206194.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2022: Chandigarh adviser to hold fortnightly review||In order to improve Chandigarh’s ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022, UT adviser Dharam Pal on Wednesday issued instructions to various departments, including municipal corporation, police, engineering and labour. The adviser fixed their responsibilities and earmarked measures required with regard to different parameters under the nationwide cleanliness survey. All heads of departments have been asked to hold review meetings at their level once a week, while the adviser will review all the matters fortnightly, it was decided. In the recently released report of Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh’s rank dropped from 8 to 16 among 48 cities with population above 10 lakh. The overall score also dipped from 83% to 71%, leading to the repatriation of medical officer of health Dr Amrit Pal Singh Warring to Punjab for his poor performance.The adviser on Wednesday reviewed the action plan to be implemented for Swachh Survekshan 2022 in a meeting held at the UT Secretariat, Sector 9. Home secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav, finance secretary Vijay Namdeorao Zade, chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and all heads of UT and MC departments were present.Directions issued to all departmentsThe adviser asked the MC commissioner to ensure immediate upgrading of the garbage processing plant so that dry waste could be processed to full capacity. He also stressed upon completion of the work on the sanitary landfill at Dadumajra by this year end. Regarding construction and demolition waste, the MC chief said a toll-free number will be introduced shortly to lift it from the doorsteps and 23 locations have been designated to collect it in a segregated manner.The adviser asked the labour department to start the process for extending benefits to all informal waste pickers identified by the MC. The engineering department was tasked with placing screens at a suitable distance in all stormwater drains to ensure no floating solid waste is visible besides removing all encroachments. The adviser directed the departments concerned to maintain proper cleanliness at the vegetable market in Sector 26 and carry out a periodic review and submit the progress report. The police department was asked to ensure removal and proper disposal of condemned and unclaimed vehicles parked in public places. On the plastic ban, the adviser ordered an intensive campaign by Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), police and MC to ensure strict enforcement. He also approved murals and wall paintings in parks to create awareness about Swachh Bharat Mission.Non-complying societies to be shamedThe adviser stressed on the involvement of citizens and resident welfare associations in the Swachh Survekshan 2022 by “intensifying behavioural change campaign” besides conducting information, education and communication activities. He said that non-cooperative bulk waste generator societies be penalised as per law besides being shamed by putting big signboards outside the premises, describing them as “Non-Compliance Society”. About the on-site wet waste processing by residents and commercial waste generators, the adviser directed the CPCC to develop a standard operating procedure for effective solutions.He also asked hospitals, hotels, jail department and social welfare department to take initiatives to reduce generation of waste under the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) principles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-2022-chandigarh-adviser-to-hold-fortnightly-review-101637784205172.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The magic realism of Paharganj||Two tiny shops, clinging tightly to each other. Atop lies what must had once been a house—now reduced to its skeletal frame. Wild brown grass has claimed the vanished roof’s still existing wooden beams.Such ordinariness on the ground level, such extraordinariness above. Together, they might as well constitute what is known in art as magical realism.The ever-dependable Wikipedia credits magic realism for painting “a realistic view of the modern world while also adding magical elements, often dealing with the blurring of the lines between fantasy and reality.” And this sight in Paharganj’s Main Bazar encapsulates that same merging of fantasy with reality. Even more remarkable is the blasé attitude of the pedestrians who are walking past this exceptional place without giving it a second look. Maybe because the entire mile-long stretch of the market is crammed with such unusual architectural twinning, where the magical is married to the mundane.By the way, the aforementioned first floor with its grass-covered wooden beams also creates a second series of magic realism with an adjacent multi-storey (see photo). Such wondrous scenes recur along the path. Further ahead, for instance, stands a guest house, the kind of boring looking lodges that populate this hotel district. But this glass-and-cement building overcomes its drabness by clinging tightly to a derelict house whose street-facing upper floor wall is distilled into a most melancholic beauty due its old-fashioned wooden doors. But something is not right here. Suddenly the penny drops. This upper storey ideally ought to have a balcony or a window—and not these dreamy blue doors, opening which might lead straight to a sudden fall into the street. A shopkeeper explains that the area was “renovated” during the countdown to the 2010 Delhi Commonwealth Games. A part of the project, he says, included the widening of the Main Bazar road due to which some houses, which were encroaching onto the lane, had to be partially demolished.If that is true, then these doors originally opened into rooms or balconies that no longer exist. Indeed, the market lane is replete with such structures ending abruptly into the air, as if a nose or an eye were missing from someone’s face. In one such scarred house, an elderly woman on the first floor is lounging casually by a door, her legs dangling into the street below, while she enjoys the warmth of the winter sun.Some steps further, yet another plain-looking budget hotel, clinging to a similarly disfigured old building. Their coupling illustrate the union of magic with realism.For decades, Paharganj had been known for its utilitarian inns and its western backpackers. It is time to celebrate its magic realist architecture too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-magic-realism-of-paharganj-101637783791586.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||National Family Health Survey shows improvement in Haryana sex ratio||The number of births delivered by C-section (caesarean) at private and public health facilities in Haryana has seen 7.8% rise in last five years, according to Phase-2 data of National Family Health Survey-2019-21 (NFHS-5). Also, there was a considerable improvement in the overall sex ratio that went up from 876 women (per 1,000 men) in 2015-16 to 926 in 2020-21.When the NFHS-4 findings were released in 2015-16, the births being delivered by C-section were 11.7 per cent, which has now risen to total 19.5 per cent (23.5 per cent in urban and 17.8 per cent in rural areas). There has been a sharp 8.6 per cent rise (from 25.3 per cent to 33.9 per cent) in births by C-section in private health facilities in comparison to 3.1 per cent increase (from 8.6 to 11.7 per cent) in such deliveries in public health facilities of Haryana. The NFHS 2019-21 (NFHS-5) is the fifth in the NFHS series that provides information on population, health, and nutrition for state. Due to the Covid-19 situation and the imposition of lockdown, NFHS-5 fieldwork for Haryana was conducted from January 12, 2020 to March 21, 2020 (prior to the lockdown) and from December 21, 2020 to April 30, 2021 during the post lockdown by Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM). The sample size of the information gathered was 18,229 households (21,909 women, and 3,224 men). The maternal and child health indicators such as antenatal checkup, consumption of iron folic acid by pregnant women have improved in comparison to previous survey findings. For example, mothers who had at least four antenatal care visits rose from 45.1 per cent to 60.4 per cent and mothers who consumed iron folic acid for 180 days or more during pregnancy also increased from 14.3 per cent to 32 per cent. The survey found 12 per cent rise in number of obese women (from 21 per cent in 2015-16 to 33.1 per cent now), and the men who are overweight are 28.3 per cent. The percentage of spousal violence (physical or sexual violence) among women (18-49 years) has come down from 32 per cent in 2015-16 to 18.2 per cent. The women (15-24 years) who use hygienic methods of protection during their menstrual period has also improved from earlier 78.3 per cent to 93.2 per cent. About 39 per cent women own a house or land either alone or jointly with others. The quality of family planning services has registered improvement, while there has been a 6 per cent dip in female sterlisation even as male sterlisation was 0.9 per cent against 0.6 per cent five years back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-family-health-survey-shows-improvement-in-haryana-sex-ratio-101637783905291.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Channi govt under fire for appointing SFJ leader’s brother as Genco chief||The Charanjit Singh Channi government has come under fire over the appointment of Balwinder Singh Kotlabama, brother of US-based Avtar Singh Pannun, coordinator of the banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) as the chairman of Punjab Genco Limited, a subsidiary of Punjab Energy Development Authority (PEDA), with not only the opposition parties, but some Congress leaders questioning the move. Kotlabama is considered close to state cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and belongs to his constituency of Fatehgarh Churian. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal was first to target the Channi-led Congress government over last week’s appointment of Kotlabama. Sukhbir raised objection to the appointment while talking to reporters during a public meeting at Chabbewal and sought an explanation from Channi. While chief minister Channi was not available for comment, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said he stood by Kotlabama. “He and his brother Pannun are different and have no connection. Kotlabama is a staunch Congressman. He is my right hand.”Cong’s Sekhri seeks Tript Bajwa’s resignationCongress leaders Fatehjang Singh Bajwa and Ashwani Sekhri also questioned the appointment of Kotlabama, calling it a “serious matter”. Bajwa, the Congress MLA from Qadian, said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was probing the SFJ and had requested the Canadian government to blacklist those associated with it, including Pannun, for “instigating people against their own country”. Sekhri went a step further and demanded cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s resignation over this issue. “The NIA and other agencies should thoroughly probe this entire matter to bring out the truth,” he said.Cong appeasing anti-national forces: BJPBJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh also slammed the Congress government for appeasing “anti-national” and “disruptive” forces.In a statement, the BJP leader said the appointment of Kotlabama was reprehensible. The Channi government has been buckling under pressure of anti-national forces, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-govt-under-fire-for-appointing-sfj-leader-s-brother-as-genco-chief-101637783545101.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda slams Haryana govt for HPSC dental surgeons’ recruitment scam||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said that the recruitment scam in Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) has exposed the tall claims of transparency while demanding an inquiry by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court.“The tall claims of transparency, honesty and recruitments-on-merit have fallen flat with the arrest of the top officials of the HPSC for their alleged involvement in the job scam,” said Hooda while interacting with mediapersons in Panipat.Taking a dig at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s claims to end “parchi and kharchi (approach and money)” in government jobs, the former chief minister said, “All the claims are found locked in a suitcase recovered from the HPSC official and this government has adopted a unique policy — “naukri becho, khareedo votes, kamao notes (sell jobs, buy votes and earn).”Hooda also slammed the government for distancing itself from the corruption in the recruitment board, saying, “If the people sitting in the government do not have any involvement in this scam, why is a high-level judicial inquiry not being conducted into the whole matter?” The chairpersons of HSCC and HPSC are appointed by the government and it is their responsibility to ensure that recruitments by both the boards are clean and there are no allegations of corruption.Hooda also termed the government’s decision to provide 75% jobs to Haryana residents as misleading and said that this government has made Haryana the only state in the country where two types of residence certificates are required to apply for government jobs.The Congress was planning to hold a third ‘Vipaksh aapke samaksh’ programme in Nuh as two programmes organised in Karnal and Jind got overwhelming response from the government, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hooda-slams-haryana-govt-for-hpsc-dental-surgeons-recruitment-scam-101637783485369.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Radicalised operative arrested with hand grenades in Amritsar||Punjab Police have arrested what they call a “highly radicalised” operative having links with foreign-based terrorist entities with two Chinese-made P-86 hand grenades and two pistols and live cartridges. An official release identified the accused as Ranjit Singh of Sohal village in Tarn Taran. With his arrest, Punjab Police claim to have foiled another possible terrorist attack in the border state. The police also recovered a black Royal Enfield motorcycle (PB02-DA-6685) from Ranjit’s possession, said Punjab director general of police (DGP) Punjab Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, said on Wednesday.The DGP said acting on intelligence inputs about the presence of Ranjit in the Amritsar area, special teams from the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Amritsar, were sent to the specified area where he was apprehended. Police sources said the accused was arrested near Bandala village. The arrest comes at a time when Punjab is witnessing huge inflow of hand grenades, tiffin bombs and other weapons. Recently, the state was rocked by two grenade blasts, including the one at CIA office in Nawanshahr and the other in the cantonment area of Pathankot, besides the recovery of an unexploded hand grenade from the Zira area.The DGP said during investigation, Ranjit revealed that he had formed a group named “Kaum De Rakhe” to collect funds on the pretext of social work. Through this group, he got in touch with radical and terrorist elements based in the UK and other countries through social media and extended his help to form sleeper cells under the garb of his social work, he said. Ranjit further disclosed that recently received a consignment of arms and explosives and was planning to carry out a terror strike to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness in the state, added the DGP. The DGP said that Ranjit was also part of a group, which had vandalised statues of folk dancers installed at the heritage street leading to Golden Temple Amritsar on January 15, 2020, and was arrested. ADGP, internal security, RN Dhoke said efforts are on to identify foreign-based handlers who had arranged the consignment and also his other Indian associates.A case under Sections 25 of the Arms Act, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Amendment Act and Sections 120 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the SSOC police station in Amritsar.Ranjit is eldest of three brothers. The three brothers and their father are farmers and the family has 15 acres of land in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/radicalised-operative-arrested-with-hand-grenades-in-amritsar-101637783364999.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Claims of education revolution another gimmick by Kejri: Pargat||Education minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday dared Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to explain that which education revolution he intends to bring Punjab which has been “cradle of civilisation” since ages and have taught the masses how to read and write. In a statement, the minister said the claims about revolution is another cheap gimmick by the “rumour monger” Kejriwal, who is not even aware of basic topography of Punjab. He said that Kejriwal probably forgot about the fact that he is trying to mislead people on same land where Vedas, Upanishads and others were written long before when people knew how to read and write. Pargat said what revolution can Delhi chief minister Bring in Punjab where “Bani” of great Gurus imbibed in Guru Granth Sahib is already guiding destiny of people by showing them way of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/claims-of-education-revolution-another-gimmick-by-kejri-pargat-101637783185103.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 52 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Wednesday reported 52 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,03,095, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality in Mansa district, the death toll in the state reached 16,588. The state’s positivity rate stood at 0.25%, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 13 were reported from Hoshiarpur, nine in Mohali and eight in Pathankot. The number of active cases in the state shot up to 300, the bulletin said. With 21 persons recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,207, it said. 13 school students among 23 test positive in Muktsar Thirteen students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Muktsar district were among 23 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the south Malwa region of Punjab since Tuesday morning. Health officials said the school and a residential locality in Bathinda’s Rampura Phul town had been declared micro-containment zones on Tuesday. Muktsar civil surgeon Ranju Singla said a student of JNV at Warring Khera was diagnosed with Covid-19 last Thursday. After testing, 13 more students were found infected with coronavirus infection on Tuesday. “Among the 14 infected, 12 are girls. They have all been isolated at the school hostel and are under medical observation. Our teams tested 400 other students and school staff and they tested negative,” she said. Bathinda chief medical officer Dr TS Dhillon said five members of a family at Rampura Phul tested positive on Tuesday. “The family had recently travelled to a few places and we have yet to ascertain the possible source of infection. Patients have been advised home isolation. A residential pocket at Janta Nagar, street number 14, at Rampura Phul has been sealed and house-to-house testing is underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-52-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101637782944984.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Akali leader shoots himself dead in Kapurthala||Amarjot Singh, the president of Student Organisation of India (Rural), on Wednesday allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed revolver in Rajapur village in Kapurthala, police said.The 30-year-old leader of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) wing shot himself inside a car, they said. Deputy superintendent of police Surinder Singh said preliminary investigation indicated a family feud as the reason behind the suicide.Police have registered a case and sent his body to civil hospital for post-mortem examination, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-akali-leader-shoots-himself-dead-in-kapurthala-101637782825009.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will make Chandigarh garbage free, ‘guarantees’ AAP||In its second ‘guarantee’ to the voters ahead of the upcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) assured to make the city garbage free. The AAP had earlier this month announced its first ‘guarantee’ wherein the party promised to provide 20,000 litre of free water to each household every month. During a press conference at AAP’s office on Wednesday, Chandigarh affairs incharge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh said, “Chandigarh people will get freedom from piles of garbage.” He said, “The BJP and the Congress, which have been occupying the municipal corporation in rotation for more than two decades, have failed to clean the city.”Singh said residents of the city would be freed from the mountain of garbage lying in the dumping ground if the AAP is voted to power. “World-class arrangements will be made for waste disposal. The Daddu Majra plant will be operated with high-end technology. Apart from this, best arrangements will be made to collect the garbage from every house,” he added. “A unique system will be developed to segregate wet and dry waste. The number of sanitation workers in each ward will be increased. With a ban on throwing garbage in public places, superlative arrangements will be made to avoid littering in the future,” Singh added.Attacking the BJP, he said that the cleanliness ranking of Chandigarh, one of the country’s top cities, has slipped to the 66th position, for which the ruling party is solely responsible.It may be noted here that in the recently released report of Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh’s rank dropped from eight to 16 among 48 cities with population above 10 lakh.AAP’s co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra said, “The BJP has robbed the city of its beauty by handing over the cleaning task to a private player.” He also questioned the mayor on why the city’s ranking dropped even after spending ₹300 crore in the name of cleanliness in the last five years. Party gets notices for defacing propertyNotices were issued to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) under the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act on Wednesday.As per the information available, the party had put up campaign posters and banners in some areas, including Sector 7, without requisite permission from the authorities. After the posters came into notice of the authorities, these were removed and notices were served on the party. Confirming the development, Rohit Gupta, SDM (East), said, “A big banner came to our notice, which was put up against the norms. We immediately removed it and served notice on the party under the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act .” Details of other cases were awaited till the filing of this report. The deputy commissioner has constituted three enforcement teams for as many zones – central, east and south – each headed by SDM of the area for implementation of the provisions of the defacement of property act and checking the violation of model code of conduct. ‘Had given contract to a firm’ Prem Garg, convener, AAP Chandigarh, said, “We had given the outdoor publicity contract to a firm. “The firm posted the banners a day prior to obtaining the requisite permissions. These are paid sites where posters/banners can be installed after taking permissions. After it came to our knowledge, we immediately removed them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-make-chandigarh-garbage-free-guarantees-aap-101637782705420.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sex ratio at birth plummets to 838, lowest in region||The sex ratio at birth in Chandigarh has dropped to 838 females for every 1,000 males, a significant drop of 14% in the last five years, the data compiled under the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) has revealed.When considering the ratio in urban pockets of Chandigarh, the ratio is even worse: 820. In the NFHS-4, which was conducted in 2015-16, the sex ratio at birth was as high as 981 in Chandigarh, highest in the region. Now, the UT is languishing at the bottom. The NFHS-5 (2019-21) conducted by the Union ministry of health and family welfare is the fifth in the series and provides information on population, health, and nutrition for India and each state and UT. In Haryana, which historically had one of the lowest sex ratios in the country, the ratio stands at 893, an improvement from 836 in the previous survey. The national average stands at 929 females per 1000 males. The sex ratio at birth is defined as the number of girls born for every 1,000 boys born, for a given population and over a given period of time.The survey also revealed that the sex ratio of the total population (females per 1,000 males) in Chandigarh’s urban areas is 918, and 868 in rural areas. The cumulative average is 917, still lower than 934 in 2015-16. Also, total fertility rate (children per woman) in Chandigarh has dropped from 1.6% to 1.4%.Due to the Covid-19 situation and the imposition of lockdown, the survey fieldwork for Chandigarh was conducted from January 2020 to March 2020 (prior to the lockdown) and from December 2020 to March 2021 (after lockdown). Information for the survey was gathered from 761 households that included 746 women and 104 men.UT health dept contests dataMeanwhile, the UT health department has questioned the report, while sharing its own data. “As per the health department’s ratio, 934 females are being born for every 1,000 males, which is even better than the national average,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.Commenting on the possibility of female foeticide being behind the dropping sex ratio, she said: “The UT health department is very vigilant on sex determination tests and no such complaints have been received. The survey also includes migrant population and people might be visiting neighbouring states to get the illegal tests conducted.”Meanwhile, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said: “The trend of dropping sex ratio in Chandigarh is unusual and the UT’s figures show different data. We will analyse the data and if the central government’s data shows different figures, we will definitely write to the authorities to re-examine the situation.” Improvement in some areasHowever, in some good news, the survey also shows that the facilities for “maternity care and delivery care” have improved in Chandigarh. The percentage of mothers who had an antenatal check-up in the first trimester has increased to 82.3% from 67.4%. Births at institutions or hospitals have increased to 96.9% from 91.6%. Also, 97% of the newborns were attended by skilled health personnel in Chandigarh, against 93.3% in the previous survey.Chandigarh has also improved significantly when it comes to gender-based violence. The recent data shows that 9.7% of presently or previously married women (age 18-49 years) have experienced spousal violence. The figure was as high as 22.5% in 2015-16.Also, no such woman experienced physical violence during pregnancy in Chandigarh, while the figure stood at 3.5% in the last survey.Lifestyle diseases continue to pose risk The National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) shows growing risk of lifestyle ailments in Chandigarh, including diabetes, hypertension, obesity and diseases associated with smoking and alcohol and drug abuse.As per the survey, around 12% of the females (age 15 and above) have high blood sugar level in Chandigarh while the percentage in men stands at 8.8%. Also, around 16.6% men are dependent on medicines to control the blood sugar while 19% women consume such medicines.Hypertension among adults (15 years or more) was most commonly found in men. As many as 18.7% men have mildly elevated blood pressure while 8.7% have moderately or severely elevated blood pressure. Among women, 14.5% have mild hypertension and 5.6% have moderate to severe problems.If one goes by the NFHS-5 data, 44% Chandigarh women are overweight in the age group of 15-49. Besides, 35% men are overweight with excessive body mass index in the same age group.The use of tobacco and alcohol consumption among adults (age 15 years and above) was found more in men. Around 12% men aged 15 years and above use some kind of tobacco while 18.6% consume alcohol. In comparison, only 0.6% women use tobacco and 0.3% consume alcohol.Dr Sonu Goel, professor, department of community medicine and school of public health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said: “In Chandigarh, people have a busy lifestyle. It has drastically changed their eating habits and people now prefer to eat junk, fast or packaged food. This is inviting serious lifestyle issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sex-ratio-at-birth-plummets-to-838-lowest-in-region-101637782285697.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC told to get quotations from BSNL for broadband at control and Command centre||With the municipal corporation (MC) working to establish a command and control centre in the city under Smart City Mission, the state-level technical committee has raised objection over quotations being invited only from private companies for hiring of a broadband service provider under the project. The committee has directed the MC to get the quotation from BSNL also before hiring the service provider and compare the rates. The matter was also discussed during a meeting of the city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited held at MC’s Zone-D office on Wednesday. Under this project, the MC will be taking over the maintenance of cameras installed under the safe city project. During the meeting, required approvals were also given for relaying synthetic track in Guru Nanak stadium, establishing vertical garden around piers of southern bypass flyovers etc. The agenda will now be forwarded to the state-level technical committee for final approvals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-told-to-get-quotations-from-bsnl-for-broadband-at-control-and-command-centre-101637781988046.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Installation of chain-linked fence around Buddha Nullah halted||BJP councillor Sunita Rani got the installation of the chain-linked fencing on the banks of Buddha Nullah near Shivpuri stopped on Wednesday after accusing municipal corporation (MC) officials of changing its alignment to favour encroachers . Rani’s son Deepak, who reached at the construction site, said that the officials changed the alignment of the fencing at a certain point and has left a portion of the bank by falsely stating that it is a private land. “The fencing at other areas is being installed in a straight line, but it has been pushed back towards the nullah at a certain portion to benefit the encroachers. I have also apprised mayor Balkar Sandhu of the issue,” said Deepak.Following the complaint, MC superintending engineer Harkiran Singh reached the spot and stopped the work. Singh said that the department will again check the record to verify the ownership of the land with the building branch and revenue department. The chain-linked fencing is being installed at the banks of nullah to stop the residents from dumping waste into the drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianainstallation-of-chain-linked-fence-around-buddha-nullah-halted-101637781866673.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists seek rollback of hike in GST on textiles; submit memo with Union minister||Criticising the Union government’s decision to increase goods and services tax (GST) on garments/textile (of MRP less than ₹1,000) from 5% to 12%, members of Federation of All Textile Manufacturing and Trading Associations of Ludhiana submitted a memorandum with Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, Parshottam Khodabhai Rupala, in Delhi on Wednesday.The industrialists demanded that the government roll back the decision as the sector is already struggling amid the pandemic and the increase in GST will further deepen the crisis. Also, prices of end products will increase, which will disturb the budget of lower and middle income families.Chairman of the association Ajit Lakra and president Tarun Jain Bawa stated that over 85% products manufactured in the local market have MRP below ₹1,000. “This will certainly increase prices of end products, which is detrimental to the industry. Also, the working capital requirement will increase, as tax has to be paid every month, but payments from customers are realised after 4-5 months of delivery. This may also increase evasion of tax,” they said. Lakra said that they met the Union minister so that the issue can be raised in the Prime Minister’s office. The minister sought suggestions from the industry and assured that the matter will be discussed thoroughly, he added.Earlier, the group of industrialists under the banner of Bhartiya Aarthik Party (BAP), had announced a protest outside the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue on November 25. Bawa, who is also the president of the party, said that the agitation has been postponed after the minister has assured to take up the matter and resolve the problem being faced by the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianaindustrialists-seek-rollback-of-hike-in-gst-on-textiles-submit-memo-with-union-minister-101637781625177.html
25-11-2021||Other||Gurugam: Air quality again moves to ‘very poor’ as wind speed slows down||abhishek.behl@hindustantimes.comWith wind speed slowing down in the National Capital Region and temperature also showing a dip, the air quality of Gurugram deteriorated to ‘very poor’ category again on Wednesday, a day after pollution levels improved to ‘poor’ for the first time in the past eight days. The 4pm air quality index (AQI) reading of the city on Wednesday was 305, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a rise from Tuesday’s reading of 276.On Wednesday, the AQI value recorded at Teri Gram monitoring station was 277, at Sector 51 was 383, and at Gwal Pahari was 250. The monitoring station at Vikas Sadan was not functional on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department said that the city’s air quality is likely to deteriorate further and reach the upper end of ‘very poor’ category on Thursday. “For the next two days, the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category. Gradual improvement is likely from November 27, with PM2.5 to be the predominant pollutant,” the IMD said in a statement on Wednesday. According to IMD, Gurugram on Wednesday recorded the minimum temperature at 9.4°C against 10.8°C a day earlier, a dip of 1.4°C. The city recorded the maximum temperature at 26°C on Wednesday. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said that in the coming days, the air quality will be ‘severe’ in the morning and evening, but during the afternoon it will turn ‘very poor’ as rise in temperature during the day would help in dispersal of pollutants. “The wind speed is around 2 to 4kmph and the temperature is also dipping, which will give rise to pollution,” he said. He also said that things will complicate further when fog envelops the city by the start of December and gets mixed with pollutants. “The smog is even more problematic as it hovers over the city for the entire day, making breathing difficult,” said Panwar. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) also predicted that air quality was likely to deteriorate further for the next few days, and asked the district administration to strictly implement the Grap measures and also the directions issued by the Commission of Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Wednesday. As per the CAQM directions, the Haryana government has been asked to take steps to control industrial pollution and carry out intensive drives by senior officers and take suitable penal actions on priority. It also asked the government to ensure that older petrol and diesel vehicles without pollution certificate are not allowed to ply on roads. “We are following CAQM orders at present. All construction sites are being monitored and we are penalising them in case they are violating any norms. We are checking if they sprinkle water around their sites to mitigate air pollution. All civic agencies are carrying out their respective role in controlling dust pollution in the district,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugam-air-quality-again-moves-to-very-poor-as-wind-speed-slows-down-101637781454114.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Members of Sukhdev Thapar Trust meet Ludhiana MC commissioner||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the members of the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust at the civic body’s Zone-D office on Wednesday. .Ancestors of Sukhdev Thapar had earlier raised a hue and cry over delay in construction of a direct approach to the ancestral house of the martyr in Naughara Mohalla from Chaura Bazar. On November 9, the kin of the martyr and office bearers of the trust had announced that they will sit on hunger strike outside the residence of chief minister Charanjit Channi if the process to acquire around 40 square yards of land to build the direct approach road is not completed in 15 days. They rued that over three and half years have elapsed since former CM Captain Amarinder Singh announced the project, but it has still not commenced at the ground level.President of the trust, Ashok Thapar, said that the authorities have assured that both projects including beautification of the area outside the house and providing direct approach to the house will be completed at the earliest.Sabharwal also issued directions to MC officials to commence the project for beautification of the area outside the ancestral house, for which ₹50 lakhs have been transferred to MC by the state government. He added that there are some technical issues in acquiring the land and MC officials have been directed to take up the matter at state level, so that the project can be completed. Further directions have been issued to float tenders to install new sewer lines and tiles among other works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/members-of-sukhdev-thapar-trust-meet-ludhiana-mccommissioner-101637781390218.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s sex ratio improves, still lower than national average||The sex ratio at birth in Delhi has improved significantly over the last five years -- from 812 girls for every 1,000 boys to 923 girls for every 1,000 boys -- according to data from the fifth round of the National Family Health Survey (NHFS-5) that was released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday.This is, however, still lower than the national average of 929 girl children born for every 1,000 boys recorded in the survey. The Capital’s civil registration system data from 2020 has reported a slightly higher 933 as the sex ratio at birth.“Delhi’s sex ratio at birth has been improving over the years because of strict implementation of the PC-PNDT act. So far, Delhi was always pulled up by the Centre for a low sex ration as per the NFHS-4 data but we have been saying that it was higher as per our civil registration system – which is better than many states’ as we have over 90% institutional deliveries all of which get registered. This data is a validation,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar, state programme officer of the Pre-Conception, Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) cell, which works to prevent sex-selective abortion.
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana, Moga eves enter Punjab baseball championship finals||The Ludhiana and Moga girl’s teams on Wednesday entered the finals of the 8th Sub-junior Punjab State Baseball Championship at Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Gill village, Ludhiana, on Wednesday.In the semi-finals, Ludhiana beat Fazilka 10-0 while Moga beat Sangrur 20-16. Sangrur and Fazilka will compete for the third spot on Wednesday.In girl’s category, 12 teams participated including Moga, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, SAS Nagar, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Barnala, Fazilka and Malerkotla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-moga-eves-enter-punjab-baseball-championship-finals-101637781147677.html
25-11-2021||Other||Gurugram civic body to focus on checking violations of Grap norms||In a bid to curb air pollution, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday decided to focus on checking violations of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) norms and amplify its surveillance over industries and factories.The decision was taken a day after Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg directed various government agencies, including the MCG, during a Grap review meeting to augment their anti-pollution measures.The corporation is also planning to increase the frequency of water sprinkling on roads. “Grap activities such as water sprinkling and mechanised sweeping have been happening since October 15. Now, we are assessing if more such machines can be procured for the purpose or if the frequency of the existing ones can be increased. We will be taking a final call on this by the end of this week,” said Subhash Yadav, district forest officer who is also nodal officer of environment and sustainability wing of the MCG.For water sprinkling activities, MCG has a total of 30 tractors and eight fire tenders. Each vehicle operates for an eight-hour period in which 16,000 litres of treated water is dispersed over a 14km stretch, the officials said. The civic body also has 13 mechanised sweeping machines.Yadav said that the MCG has also decided to intensify action against Grap violations. “Teams have been instructed to keep a greater surveillance on Grap violations and issue fines against violators. Further, we have also directed officials to keep a check on factories and industries, and accordingly, fine their owners with heavy penalties if they are found to be flouting norms,” said Yadav.As per an official release issued by the MCG on Wednesday, from October 15 till November 23, the civic body has issued a cumulative fine of ₹17.14 lakh against 162 violators. The fines were imposed on the violators for dumping and burning of garbage in the open, transporting construction material without cover and using plastic, the officials said. In Tuesday’s meeting, Garg had also directed MCG to fix potholes across the city as it will help mitigate dust pollution.On Wednesday, the MCG’s engineering wing set a deadline of December 15 to fix potholes in the city. “Earlier, the MCG had set a November 30 target for fixing potholes. However, due to the construction bans, it has been revised to December 15. Tenders for most stretches have been allocated and we are also in the process of procuring jet patcher machines which will expedite filling of potholes,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-civic-body-to-focus-on-checking-violations-of-grap-norms-101637781145015.html
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||PSEB board exams from Dec 13: Students of Ludhiana govt schools yet to get NCERT textbooks||Even as the Punjab School Education Board has announced the start of the first-term board exams from December 13, students of some government schools are yet to receive their NCERT textbooks.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC, general) Rahul Chaba and members of Sikhya Sudhar Committee had pulled up officials of the district education department last month for not providing textbooks to all students enrolled with government schools in the district. The ADC had asked district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra to provide books all students and submit a report on the same in the next meeting. The education department on Wednesday sought details of students who are yet to receive textbooks from the schools. A teacher privy to the issue, said, “The exams are nearing and students don’t have books, and then we expect them to excel.”Another teacher shared, “A senior official from the department called the principal and assured that the required books will be sent. Since the DEO is supposed to submit his reply to the ADC in the next meeting, which will be held soon, efforts are finally being made to save the department’s skin.” Due to the delay in receiving the books, many students were left with no other option but to buy subject guides, days ahead of their final board exams.As per the latest order of the PSEB, students of Classes 8, 10 and 12 will have their board centres in their own school. Earlier, board students of upper primary classes used to appear in other schools. The exam will be held in two sessions of 50 marks each. Both Class 10 and 12 students will take the Punjabi exam on December 13. Class 10 students will appear for exams on consecutive days as English exam is scheduled on December 14 followed by Hindi/Urdu on December 15, mathematics on December 16, science on December 17 and SST on December 18. For the first time, students will get objective type question papers in their board exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pseb-board-exams-from-dec-13-students-of-ludhiana-govt-schools-yet-to-get-ncert-textbooks-101637781026582.html
25-11-2021||Other||Shatabdi express stopped for checking at Gurugram station after bomb hoax||A Delhi-bound Shatabdi express was stopped at Gurugram railway station on Tuesday night after the railway police received a call regarding a bomb threat on the train. Railway police officials said that they received the information around 9.45pm, and got the train coming from Ajmer to stop at platform number two for checking. However, the call turned out to be a hoax, police said.Sub-inspector Ramphal, in-charge, government railway police station, Gurugram, said that the bomb disposal squad was pressed into service and the compartment mentioned in the call was checked thoroughly. Later, all the passengers were asked to get down and the entire train was checked for any suspicious package or article but nothing was found, he said. “The caller has been traced, and a case was registered under sections 124A and 505 of IPC,” Ramphal said. adding that the train was allowed to leave after two hours. However, police did not reveal the identity of the caller, saying that further investigation is on.The officials said that the call had been made from Delhi to Rewari police control room, which informed the railway police in Gururgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shatabdi-express-stopped-for-checking-at-gurugram-station-after-bomb-hoax-101637780784959.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC stays trial court order to summon BJP MLA Vijender Gupta in criminal defamation case||The Delhi high court on Wednesday stayed a trial court order summoning BJP MLA Vijender Gupta as an accused in a criminal defamation complaint filed by Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot.Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri sought Gahlot’s stand on Gupta’s challenge to the summons, issued to him for allegedly making defamatory statements on purported irregularities in the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation.“In the meantime, the order shall remain stayed,” the judge said, while also seeking the stand of the state in the matter.Gupta was summoned as an accused by the trial court on October 11 on the transport minister’s complaint and was asked to appear before it on November 16.In his complaint before the trial court, Gahlot alleged that Gupta “intentionally and for malafide purposes” defamed him and tarnished his reputation to gain political mileage. He claimed that Gupta levelled “defamatory, scandalous, mischievous, false and scurrilous allegations” verbally as well as in writing.Gahlot also claimed that Gupta made unabated tweets doubting the integrity of the minister in relation to the purchase of the low-floor buses, despite a clean chit being given by a high-powered committee. He said the Delhi government floated a tender for buses and after due process, it was awarded to Tata; but all sorts of allegations were made. The trial court said there was prima facie evidence to summon Gupta as an accused for the alleged offence of defamation.Senior lawyer Ajay Burman, appearing for Gupta, argued that his client was “squarely covered” under the exceptions to defamation, as stated under the Indian Penal Code, as the statements were made in discharge of public service as a leader of the opposition.He also alleged that a criminal defamation complaint was not maintainable before a magisterial court while contending that another single judge of the high court had earlier refused to grant any ex parte interim relief to the minister on his suit against the allegedly defamatory tweets.Senior advocate Manish Vashisht, appearing for Gahlot, said Gupta’s tweets were “absolutely scandalous” and made in the absence of any “conclusive finding by any judicial body”.“You are doing dharna outside my house. You are defaming me in front of my family,” Vashisht said, while speaking for his client. The matter will be next heard on March 4, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-stays-trial-court-order-to-summon-bjp-mla-vijender-gupta-in-criminal-defamation-case-101637780724939.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Suspension of jail term to Ansals will cause trauma to Uphaar victims: Police||The Delhi Police on Wednesday told a Delhi court that suspension of the seven-year jail term, awarded to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal for tampering of evidence in the main Uphaar fire tragedy case, will cause mental trauma and agony to victims.Arguing before additional sessions judge Anil Antil, additional public prosecutor AT Ansari told the court that punishing the Ansal brothers would provide solace to victims of the fire tragedy and reinforced their faith in the justice system, that too after 24 years.“The manner in which the most crucial documents, capable of establishing the involvement of Ansals in the case, were handpicked from the court records comprising more than 15,000 pages, relevant portion of the documents were torn, obliterated and defaced by sprinkling ink on them, was not a simple air strike; it was a guided missile attack to hit the target,” Ansari told the court.He said if the sentence is suspended just after 15 days of it being pronounced, it will further erode the faith of common citizens in the criminal justice system. He said it was not less than an assault on the justice delivery system whereby institutional integrity of the Delhi judiciary was sought to be undermined.The hearing relates to tampering with evidence in the main case on the fire tragedy, which claimed 59 lives, during the screening of the Hindi film ‘Border’ on June 13, 1997. In August 2015, the Ansal brothers were sentenced to two years in jail in the main fire case by the Supreme Court, but the apex court released them taking into account the time they already spent in jail, on the condition that they pay a fine of ₹30 crore each, to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capitalA Delhi court on November 8, also handed a seven-year jail term each to the brothers for tampering with evidence and noted in the verdict that their regrets over the incident were “hollow”.Challenging the latest magisterial court conviction and jail term, Ansals have also urged the court to suspend their punishment during the pendency of the appeal.The magisterial court also awarded seven years in jail to former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others, P P Batra and Anoop Singh, and imposed a fine of ₹3 lakh on each of them.The tampering was detected for the first time on July 20, 2002, and a departmental inquiry was initiated against Sharma and he was suspended. He was terminated from service on June 25, 2004. The prosecution said after the termination, the Ansal brothers helped Sharma get employment on a monthly salary of ₹15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/suspension-of-jail-term-to-ansals-will-cause-trauma-to-uphaar-victims-police-101637780606547.html
25-11-2021||Kolkata||Uncertainty looms over civic polls in Kolkata and Howrah to be held next month||The Calcutta High Court, which was scheduled to hear the petition on holding simultaneous elections to all civic bodies in West Bengal on Wednesday, will take up the matter on November 29, even as uncertainty looms over the civic polls in Kolkata and Howrah to be held on December 19, a date initially proposed by the Mamata Banerjee-led administration. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday sent back the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking more details from the government. “As regards Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 @MamataOfficial WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought further details for consideration of the same under Article 200 of the Constitution,” Dhankhar tweeted. The amendment bill aims to carve out Bally Municipality in Howrah district from the jurisdiction of the Howrah Municipal Corporation. Experts said that even though the Trinamool Congress (TMC)-ruled state government wanted to hold the civic polls in phases, starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19, the plan now seems uncertain. The state is considering holding the election only in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation on December 19 “The court had said that elections should be held at the earliest. We are concerned with the delay. At present the daily count of Covid-19 cases have declined. Elections should be held at the earliest. The BJP knows that if elections are held, they will lose and hence has adopted delaying tactics,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister and senior TMC leader. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, had moved the high court demanding simultaneous elections to all civic bodies. “There has to be a minimum gap of 24 days between the date of notification and holding polls. In that case if elections are to be held on December 19, the notification would have to be published on Thursday. We are taking legal opinion,” said a senior state government official. Elections to 114 civic bodies are pending for more than a year. The TMC controls most of the civic bodies in West Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over two years ago, but polls were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state government has to first notify. Once the state government comes up with the notification, we will also notify announcing the dates of the polls,” said a senior official of the state election commission. The SEC had submitted an affidavit before the court earlier this week stating that it wants to hold elections to the municipal corporations of Kolkata and Howrah first as the number of double vaccinated people in these two cities is high. It said elections to the other municipal bodies in the state would be held in phases later. “The BJP has moved the court with very obvious questions. Why should polls be held only in Howrah and Kolkata? Why other important municipalities like Siliguri, Asansol and Bidhan Nagar are being excluded?” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/uncertainty-looms-over-civic-polls-in-kolkata-and-howrah-to-be-held-next-month-101637780544887.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks authorities’ stand on opening of liquor shop in residential area||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the stand of the Delhi government, excise commissioner and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation regarding a plea by two residents challenging the opening of a liquor shop in their locality near Karkardooma court.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice based on the PIL by the residents of east Delhi’s Chander Nagar area who claimed that the shop will be in close vicinity to a school, temple and a government dispensary.The petitioners claimed that ever since residents of the locality came to know about the opening of a liquor shop in the area, they were “scared” about their children’s future, “modesty of ladies, young girls and teenagers’’, the law and order situation, as well as the welfare of the locality.They argued that the opening of the liquor shop violates the Delhi Excise Act and Rules as it falls under is “restricted area as per the settled law”.The petition, filed through advocate Kamal Mehta, claimed that the proposed shop is only 30 metres from the EDMC primary school, 60 metres from two temples, and 50 metres from a government dispensary. It also said that the shop is located within 100 metres of a colony of labourers, chemists, and a general store.“As per norms of the government of Delhi, a liquor shop cannot function within 50-100 metres of a school, temple, etc. Any permission beyond the permissible limit envisages appropriate action against the officials,” the petition has stated.Seeking direction to the authorities to stop the opening of the liquor shop, the petitioners contended that its continuation will create nuisance in the locality.The court was also informed that there is no ample parking space near the shop premises, which is likely to result in traffic as people would park their vehicle on the road.The matter will be heard next on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-authorities-stand-on-opening-of-liquor-shop-in-residential-area-101637780484834.html
25-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG seeks action against 7 officials for paying contractor twice||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has written to the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB), seeking permission to register a police case against seven officials of the civic body for allegedly paying a contractor twice for the same work. Ahuja has also sought permission for a similar action against the contractor who was hired for laying a sewerage line, constructing manholes, and reconstructing roads in Sheetla Mata Road and Palam Vihar areas in November 2018. After the project was completed in February 2019, ₹47 lakh was paid to the contractor. In November 2019, however, another payment of ₹44 lakh was allegedly made to the contractor by the MCG for the same project, he said.“The seven officials failed to discharge their duties diligently and the transaction inflicted a financial loss to the MCG and gave financial gain to a third party. This is a gross violation of Haryana Civil Services (Employees Conduct Rules), 2016. The seven MCG officials and contractor in connivance of malafide intention have committed a criminal conspiracy,” said Ahuja.The matter first came to the fore in July this year, when the contractor “apprised” the MCG of being paid twice for the same project and returned ₹44 lakh to the civic body. Around the time, a special audit of all financial transactions in the MCG was being carried out by a team of the Principal Accountant General (Audit) Haryana.The matter prompted a vigilance wing inquiry, and in September the civic body issued a show-cause notice to the officials concerned and the contractor, seeking an explanation on the matter. In the vigilance wing inquiry, seven MCG officials — an executive engineer, two accountants, an assistant engineer, one former junior engineer, a former chief account officer, and a former section officer — were allegedly found guilty of making an illegal and fraudulent payment to the private contractor.Following the submission of the vigilance wing report, on November 3, Ahuja wrote to directorate of ULB for allowing the MCG to register an FIR against the seven officials.Ahuja said that besides disciplinary action, the matter needs proper police investigation following the registering of an FIR and hence, has sought permission from the ULB.SK Sharma, a local activist, had filed a right to information (RTI) application on the matter and made its reply public on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-mcg-seeks-action-against-7-officials-for-paying-contractor-twice-101637780366307.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Low temp, poor wind speed push Delhi’s air quality back in ‘very poor’ zone||A combination of low temperature and poor wind speed pushed Delhi’s air quality back into the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday, a day after being recorded in the poor zone -- the best since November 1, scientists said. The national Capital recorded its coldest day of the season on Wednesday with the minimum temperature being recorded at 9.2 degrees Celsius, and the wind speed stayed in the range of 5-10km/hr, according to IMD data. The 4pm average air quality index in Delhi was recorded at 361 on Wednesday, compared to 290 on Tuesday even as the forecasting agencies said that similar meteorological conditions over the next two days may keep the air in the very poor zone. They said wind speed is expected to pick up November 27 onwards that will help disperse pollutants and improve air quality. Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said wind speed is expected to remain below 5 km/hr for the next two days. “We are experiencing calm wind conditions, and from Thursday, it may further drop to 3-4 km/hr. This will lead to pollutants accumulating over Delhi and air quality will go up to the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category (AQI value 300-400).” According to Safar, the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Wednesday was just 2% , with 432 incidences of stubble burning recorded in the northern plains. According to the Safar bulletin, local weather will now play a key role in determining air quality. “With the onset of winter, local weather is likely to be dominating factor in determining air quality,” the bulletin said. IMD scientist RK Jenamani said though wind speeds on Wednesday were recorded in the range of 5-10 km/hr, it was calmer in the early hours of the day. “At night, and in the morning, wind speed will be calm over the next two days,” he said. The Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, another forecasting mechanism under the ministry of earth sciences, said shallow fog will start occurring over Delhi in the morning hours. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from southeast/southwest direction, with wind speeds ranging between 5-8 km/hr. They will remain calm during evening and night, with shallow fog occurring in the morning on both Thursday and Friday,” it said. Dipankar Saha, former head at the Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory, said while stubble burning impacts Delhi’s air largely between October 15 and November 15, December and January generally see a deterioration in air quality due to meteorological factors such as low temperature, fog and low wind speed. “Wind, along with low temperatures, will play a key role now. We may also start seeing the impact of fog in the morning hours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-temp-poor-wind-speed-push-delhi-s-air-quality-back-in-very-poor-zone-101637780364965.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Preventing crime against women is Delhi Police’s priority: Asthana||The linking of police control room (PCR) vans with local police stations has helped foster a strong beat system and improve maintenance of law and order in the national capital, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Wednesday during an interaction with journalists.The police commissioner stated that his force was focussing on improving basic police tasks, and reducing the response time to people in distress. He said the Delhi Police has taken a series of steps such as the linking of PCR vans with police stations, separation of law and order and investigation duties, filling up of all vacant posts and better management of citizen services for making people feel safer, and at the same time control crime.Earlier, PCR vans used to act only as the first responders, and after reaching the spot they would inform the local police station about the case. Now, the PCR staff has also been assigned investigation duties besides responding to distress calls. “This has brought average response time from eight minutes to three minutes,” Asthana said while addressing a session organised by the Indian Women’s Press Corps.He added that controlling crime against children and women is a priority for the Delhi Police. The commissioner said currently the number of women officers posted in active policing positions is the highest ever. He added that currently six deputy commissioners, eight additional deputy commissioners, eight assistant commissioners and nine station house officers are women.“There is a separate crime against women cell in each district, besides the Special Police Unit for Women & Children (SPUWAC), to deal with complaints related to crime against women. Immediate attention is given if any call regarding a woman in distress is received. These cells and the unit also counsels the victim and handle issues such as matrimonial discord. Crimes against women are registered and investigated promptly,” Asthana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/preventing-crime-against-women-is-delhi-police-s-priority-asthana-101637780306950.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks authorities to recruit doctors, paramedics in govt hospitals||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre and state government to start the recruitment process for the appointment of doctors and paramedical staff in government-run hospitals here.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea by a social worker claiming an acute shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in government-run hospitals in the Capital, asked the authorities to “show some speed” in the recruitment process.“You (authorities) start the recruitment process and appoint them. Show some speed. This is required.”“It is not necessary that all vacancies should be filled (if) you are not getting suitable candidates. Start the process. You can’t say that you will never start the process,” the bench said.The court issued a notice based on a public interest litigation filed by Dr Nand Kishore Garg — a social activist and former Delhi MLA — and sought a response from the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Safdarjung Hospital, and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.Garg’s plea sought the immediate filling up of vacancies in government-run hospitals.The petitioner, represented by lawyer Shashank Deo Sudhi, claimed that there is an acute shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in government-run hospitals in the city, which is resulting in poor patients being forced to approach private hospitals and pay huge amounts of money.“As per RTI replies dated February 7, 2020, 1,838 doctors have been working in the health and welfare department of Delhi while 745 posts of doctors were lying vacant, and, as per the RTI reply dated November 2, 2021, in government hospitals, such as Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, the sanctioned strength of paramedical officials is 475, out of which 135 posts are vacant,” the petition stated.“(RTI) discloses over 800 vacancies of doctors in different categories are lying vacant in AIIMS alone, while in another hospital of the Central government, namely Safdarjung, [there is a shortage of 433 doctors and 67 paramedical staff. Further, another hospital, namely Ram Manohar Lohia, there is vacancy of more than 100 doctors and paramedical staff,” it added.The petition has submitted that inadequate infrastructure in the government hospitals is “becoming ominous” because of serious diseases like Covid-19 and other communicable life-threatening ailments.The matter will be heard next on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-authorities-to-recruit-doctors-paramedics-in-govt-hospitals-101637780124871.html
25-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 5-acre land near Golf Course Road cleared of encroachment||Continuing its drive against encroachment of government land, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday demolished over 700 hutments constructed illegally over five acres of land owned by the authority in Nathupur near Golf Course Road, officials said. HSVP officials said that the demolition drive started amid resistance by occupants of hutments, but a police team, which accompanied the enforcement team, brought the situation under control. On Tuesday, the enforcement team of HSVP demolished over 1,500 temporary shops and hutments constructed illegally on three acres in the same area. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that the enforcement team started the drive around 12.30pm and immediately met with resistance from the residents. “It was only after a warning by the police team that the residents of hutments as well as local villagers moved away from the encroached land. Three-acre land is still under encroachment and it will be cleared on Thursday,” he said. The officials said that eight acres of land, which was acquired by the authority in 2009, have been cleared of encroachment over two days. “Majority of the people living in these hutments work as ragpickers. Around two-acre land, which was cleared of encroachment on Wednesday, was being used as a segregation point, as a result of which the entire area looked like a waste dumping station. This practice will be stopped now,” said another HSVP official, who preferred anonymity. The authority has around 70 acres of encroached land in the jurisdiction of estate office two, which it plans to get cleared in the next six months, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-5-acre-land-near-golf-course-road-cleared-of-encroachment-101637780064903.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Over 1200 trees in Vasant Vihar deconcretised after Delhi HC directions||Acting on the order by the Delhi high court, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) removed concrete from around nearly 1,200 trees in Vasant Vihar, senior civic body officials said on Wednesday. “Every day, we are removing cemented floors that have come up around trees in the area. Till now, we have already covered A to F blocks. We have been ordered by the court to remove maximum concrete from around trees by November 26, which is the next date of hearing,” said a senior SDMC official, asking not to be named. HT reported in December last year that of the total 4,993 trees on the streets of Vasant Vihar, 3,859 were heavily concretised. A tree census conducted by local residents showed over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites. Based on HT’s report a complaint was filed with the Delhi forest department by environmental activists, and a petition was also filed at the Delhi high court. The report has also been quoted in the petition. Senior SDMC officials on Wednesday said that since the ban on construction and demolition was lifted by the Delhi government on November 22, the department has deconcretised nearly 1,200 trees in the neighbourhood. They cemented pavements, parking spaces have come up around most trees. During a spot check at Vasant Vihar F-block on Wednesday, civic officials told HT that they were facing abuses and threats by local residents who allegedly encroached upon public land, and placed concrete around trees on the streets. “For the last few days many residents have come and threatened to file cases against us, some have also screamed and hurled abuses at us. We have now called the police force for the protection of our staff,” said an SDMC official who led the deconcretisation drive on Wednesday. Apart from removing the concrete with machines, the corporation was also allowing residents and officials from embassies that are located in the area to clear the area around trees themselves.“Some embassies and residents requested that they be allowed to remove the concrete around the trees on their driveways. We have marked the area, and given them two days to clear it,” the official said. An elderly resident of the area, who asked not to be named, was seen measuring the area around the trees that were deconcretised by the SDMC officials. She alleged that the civic body teams “damaged” driveways and were removing cement beyond the one-metre radius around the trees as prescribed by the courts. In 2013, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) did not just ban concretisation of the base of trees within a radius of one metre, but also asked the authorities not to dig the road within one metre of a tree. “The court has said that the area within a radius of one metre around the trees cannot be concretised, but they (civic body) are damaging the entire area mindlessly. There is a sewer line below the driveway that can be damaged. Plus, after breaking the cement slabs with heavy machines, they are making labourers remove the debris. They are digging the roots of trees. This will kill the tree anyway,” she said. Vallari Sheel, an environmental scientist and urban ecologist, who also spearheaded the trees census in Vasant Vihar, said the primary aim of the census was to understand the health of street trees in the locality and to get the agencies rectify the problems. “It is good that action is being taken. This was the primary aim behind conducting the census. Tree census is important to create awareness among residents, but it also helps create a database for agencies and help them take action against violations, just like it is being done now. With the action being taken here, Vasant Vihar can become a model colony. Tree census should be conducted across the Capital and based on its findings, agencies should take action,” Sheel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1200-trees-in-vasant-vihar-deconcretised-after-delhi-hc-directions-101637779946108.html
25-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Occupancy certificates of eight buildings in Sushant Lok 2 cancelled||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday cancelled occupancy certificates of eight buildings in Sushant Lok 2 after it was found that the owners had made unapproved additions to these structures. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said, “It was found that additions and alterations had been made in these structures by way of constructing rooms and toilets in stilts while the buildings are still incomplete. Any such violations will not be tolerated.” In the past two weeks, the enforcement wing of the department has cancelled around 50 occupancy certificates in different areas after violations were detected in the structures.DTCP officials said that five teams have been constituted to inspect houses where OCs have been issued. In another development, the department has issued directions to developers of delayed affordable projects to expedite construction work. The directions were issued following a meeting last week called by senior town planner with nine developers. The DTCP officials said that directions have been issued to the developers after assessing delayed projects as the affordable housing projects must be completed in four years. “The developers have been asked to increase the pace of construction so that project deadlines are adhered to. Also, directions have been issued that demand for money from buyers should be made in proportion to the construction of the project,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-occupancy-certificates-of-eight-buildings-in-sushant-lok-2-cancelled-101637779887405.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Jewar airport to be Asia’s biggest: Scindia||The Noida international airport in Jewar, Greater Noida, will be Asia’s biggest aviation facility and generate employment for more than a hundred thousand people, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Wednesday, a day ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Jewar airport will help in the development of the nation. It will be Asia’s biggest airport. It will also create employment opportunities for more than one lakh [100,000] people,” the minister told ANI. “There were only two airports in Uttar Pradesh for the past 70 years, but now Jewar airport will be the 10th airport to be built in the state in the last seven years. Soon, we will see 17 airports in the state. Previously, only 25 destinations were covered, but now 80 destinations are covered,” Scindia said.Senior officials privy to the development said the airport will have a capacity of 12 million passengers per annum (in the first phase), and will commence construction of its second phase by 2031-32. The cost of the first phase development is ₹4,588 crore and the total cost of the project is pegged at ₹29,560 crore, senior officials said.A total of 1,324 hectares have been acquired for the project in the first phase, and two runways will come up in the first phase. According to civil aviation ministry officials, flight operations are expected to commence from the greenfield airport by 2024. “Prime Minister is closely monitoring the airport’s development,” said Rajiv Bansal, secretary, ministry of civil aviation. According to passenger demand, Jewar airport (also called Noida International airport), is expected to be built in four phases. After the second phase, the capacity of the airport is expected to go up to 30 million passengers per annum, the officials quoted above said.In the third phase, work on which is expected to begin by 2036-2037, the estimated target capacity is 50 million passengers; and the after the fourth and final phase (by 2040), the aviation hub will be able to handle 70 million passengers per annum, the officials said. Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport is also being expanded, after which it will be able to handle 110 million passengers, Bansal said. Currently, Delhi airport’s capacity is 69 million passengers per annum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jewar-airport-to-be-asia-s-biggest-scindia-101637779886293.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Court directs FIR against BJP spokesman for posting doctored video of Kejriwal||A Delhi court on Tuesday said a “doctored video” of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal purportedly supporting the Centres three farm laws, allegedly posted by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra, could have ended up outraging protesting farmers and could have resulted in a rioting like situation across the nation. Metropolitan magistrate Rishabh Kapoor directed the police to register an FIR against Patra for the alleged offence, after a complaint was filed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi stating that the fabricated video was published on social media by Patra with the intent to provoke farmers, who repose strong faith in Kejriwal, to rise against the CM.In the order copy released on Wednesday, the court said the forensics report clearly reflects that the impugned video was “edited” or “altered”.It said even the action taken report (ATR) filed by the police clearly states that the video clip in question was within the category of “manipulated media”, as marked by microblogging website Twitter.Kapoor said the video was “manipulated” in such a way to give it a colour that Kejriwal was endorsing the farm laws.The court said the doctored video was circulated on social media with the intent to make the protesting farmers believe that Kejriwal was supporting the farm laws, and it could have outraged them.“The fact that the impugned video was published on the Twitter handle of proposed accused, with the caption “teeno farm bills ke laabh ginate hue... Sir jee”, prima facie proves that same was circulated on Twitter with no other intention but to cause the protesting farmers to believe that Kejriwal is supporting the farm laws, which may have perpetuated a state of outrage with the protesting farmers and may have resulted in rioting like situation across the nation,” the court said in an eight page order.“In the impugned video clip running in 18 seconds, it can be clearly seen that the above stances quoted by Kejriwal in the original video, were placed and doctored in such a way to give them a colour as if he was speaking in support of farm laws,” it further said.Kapoor noted that in the original video, which is 40 minutes 52 seconds long clip, Kejriwal was replying to the question of a journalist, by quoting the speeches given by leaders of BJP in support of farm laws.The court further said at the end of each sentence, Kejriwal was saying that the above quoted benefits of the farm laws were already in existence even prior to the promulgation of the three new laws.The judge said the police have not probed the circumstances under which the proposed accused (Patra) has published the said video clip on his Twitter handle.“Besides, the police have also not conducted any probe to find out whether the impugned video clip was already available in public domain by associating Twitter with the inquiry, so as to rule out the fabrication/ alteration of the same at the behest of proposed accused,” the court said.The matter will next be heard on February 3, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-fir-against-bjp-spokesman-for-posting-doctored-video-of-kejriwal-101637779767283.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Mumbai gangster Abu Salem’s accomplice arrested in Noida||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police and Uttar Pradesh special task force on Tuesday evening arrested a close associate of Mumbai gangster Abu Salem from Noida’s Sector 20. The suspect, identified as Harish Khan (30), was on the run ever since an attempt to murder case was lodged against him at Noida’s Sector 20 police station in 2014. Gautam Budh Nagar police also announced a reward of ₹25,000 for his arrest. Harish, a resident of Paidhuni in Mumbai, originally belongs to Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, said police. “Harish used to go to meet his friend Osama, who was behind bars at the Arthur Road jail in 2006. He met Abu Salem and Zafar Supari here as they were lodged in the same jail. Soon, Harish became a member of Zafar Supari’s brother Khan Mubarak’s gang, which was involved in investing Abu Salem’s funds in real estate,” said Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent, special task force . Zafar Supari and Khan Mubarak are also known gangsters from Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkarnagar district, said police.In 2014, Harish and another accomplice of Abu Salem, Gajender Singh, came to Gautam Budh Nagar. They would take the names of mafias to extort money from people on the pretext of property dealing.Mishra said Singh and Harish allegedly duped a Delhi-based businessman of ₹1.8 crore in 2014. When asked to return the money, Singh allegedly used his connections to threaten the businessman and even shot at him in Noida’s Sector 18. Both Singh and Harish were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. “Singh was arrested last year in Noida while Harish was still on the run. On interrogating Singh, we learnt that Harish will be in Noida on November 23. A join operation was carried out along, with the Gautam Budh Nagar police, around 8.30pm on Tuesday and Harish was arrested nabbed from Labour Chowk in Sector 20,” said Mishra. Police recovered a pistol, live cartridges and identification documents from the Harish. He has also been booked under relevant sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mumbai-gangster-abu-salem-s-accomplice-arrested-in-noida-101637779704817.html
25-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Daulatabad main road to be upgraded to ease congestion||To ease traffic congestion and streamline movement of vehicles, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has planned to upgrade the Daulatabad main road, which connects the Daulatabad flyover to the Dwarka Expressway. The MCG’s plan includes relaying of the 1.1-km stretch with ready mixed concrete, widening the two-lane carriageway with an extra lane on each side, installing a traffic signal at the Chauma Road/ Dhanwapur Road intersection, placing jersey barriers to divert traffic, and painting zebra crossings for facilitating movement of pedestrians and cyclists, officials said on Wednesday. The stretch is heavily congested and its upgrade will help residents of sectors 3, 9, 103, 107, and 108. The civic body has floated a ₹1.71 crore tender for the project, bids of which will be opened on December 6, the officials said.“Once a contractor is finalised, we will initiate the work in the next two-three weeks. We are aiming to start the work on the project by the end of December. The contractor will have to maintain the stretch for two years from the date the project is completed,” said Satpal Singh, executive engineer of MCG who is overseeing the project. The MCG had planned a similar project in December 2017, however, due to technical reasons it never took off. In July, the MCG had floated the same tender. However, due to a lack of bidders, it has been refloated again.“We want to widen the existing carriageway on each side by an extra lane as well as the service lanes of the flyover to facilitate traffic movement. For further streamlining, we will be placing a traffic signal at the intersection for proper dispersal of traffic,” said a former MCG official who was earlier overseeing the project.Yashesh Yadav, president of Dwarka Expressway Welfare Association, which represents several residential projects on the expressway, said that currently, the stretch is pothole-ridden and uneven. During peak hours it takes commuters 15-20 minutes to cross the stretch, he said. “The road is in a bad condition. Once upgraded, it will not only provide relief to thousands of residents living in sectors 3, 9, 103, 107, and 108, but also hundreds of commuters coming from Chhawla in Delhi who work in various parts of Old Gurgaon,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-daulatabad-main-road-to-be-upgraded-to-ease-congestion-101637779590297.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||North MCD to file FIR against AAP for physical altercation during House meeting||North Delhi Municipal Corporation is going to file a first information report (FIR) against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors for allegedly slapping a BJP member during a ruckus in the house over the new excise policy on Tuesday, senior civic leaders said on Wednesday. In a joint press conference on Wednesday, North MCD mayor Raja Iqbal Singh and standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said that an FIR will be filed by the corporation against AAP members for allegedly slapping BJP standing committee member Vijender Yadav. The mayor said that a delegation of senior civic body functionaries will meet lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal to demand action against AAP MLA Mohinder Goyal. Jain said, “When we tried to discuss the issue of air pollution and new liquor vends during the house meeting, and our councillor Vijender Yadav tried to stage a symbolic protest by displaying a mix of tea and water to show liquor, the AAP MLA (Goyal) attacked the BJP councillor. We have decided to file a police complaint,” he added. A municipal official explained that the AAP MLA was a nominated member of the House, and was legally allowed to attend the sitting. The mayor said such behaviour in the House was “unprecedented”. “The House was all set to discuss increasing levels of pollution in the city, and the new excise policy of the Delhi government when AAP MLA Mohinder Goyal slapped BJP councillor Vijender Yadav. This undemocratic behaviour by the AAP MLA has tarnished the dignity of the House. We strongly condemn his behaviour and urge Delhi chief minister to take strong action against the MLA. We will raise the issue before the LG, and will also register an FIR,” Singh said.Leader of the opposition in North MCD, Vikas Goyal said the BJP councillor brought a “liquor bottle” in the house that hurt the dignity of the House. “The (BJP) councillors were abusing the opposition. Our MLA Mohinder Goyal slapped him. I don’t agree with the act but you should also consider that the councillor was being very provocative and anyone could have lost cool over it. I am not even favour of slapping anyone. The mayor can file an FIR but why don’t they make the video recording of House proceedings public?” Goyal asked. Despite repeated attempts, Mohinder Goyal, AAP MLA from Rithala, did not respond HTs queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-to-file-fir-against-aap-for-physical-altercation-during-house-meeting-101637779588657.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Mob demolishes boundary wall of waste-to-energy plant in Galand||A mob of hundreds of unidentified men and women on Wednesday barged into the waste-to-energy plant in Galand in Hapur district and demolished the newly constructed boundary wall of the site, which is being developed by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation for processing solid waste from the city. The work on the plant is expected to commence next year. The villagers of Galand and neighbouring villages have been protesting against the construction of the plant in their area and demanding that it be set up elsewhere. However, the 44.26 acres, where the site is to come up, belongs to the corporation and two days ago, it started the construction of the boundary wall to secure the site. “About 250 people demolished the boundary wall on Wednesday morning and also misbehaved with officials. The entire length of the wall is about 2,300 metres and the per metre cost is about ₹2,000. So, the cost involved will be realised from the erring persons and we are in touch with officials in Hapur. An FIR will also be registered in this connection,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The villagers of Galand have been staging a sit-in protest for past two months near the site and said the plant will lead to unhygienic conditions in their villages and also pose a health hazard. “On Wednesday morning, hundreds of agitated locals arrived and demolished the boundary wall which is getting constructed by the corporation. People are agitated over the developments leading to construction of the plant. Our protest will continue and our sit-in will also continue till the time officials decide to shift the plant to another location,” said Sanjay Khori, gram pradhan (village head) of Galand. “We know that officials will lodge FIRs in this connection but we will continue with the protest for our demand to shift the plant to some other site,” he added. The plant is expected to process about 2,500 metric tonnes of daily solid waste and generate electricity that will be transferred to the electricity department. At present, the Ghaziabad city has no landfill site available for processing daily solid waste of about 1,200 metric tonnes. The officials of the corporation have already admitted that about 700 metric tonnes of daily solid waste fail to get processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mob-demolishes-boundary-wall-of-waste-to-energy-plant-in-galand-101637779587543.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two arrested for smuggling guns in milk canisters||For the last six months, two men, who posed as milkmen and sold illegal guns by hiding it in milk canisters were arrested from Jaffarpur, Delhi police said on Wednesday. Police said the two alleged gun smugglers Kuldeep(40) and Dilbagh(30) alias Bage are residents of Palwal and Gurugram in Haryana. Police are tracing the source of the weapons and the criminals, who bought it. Preliminary investigation has revealed that two men have until now supplied at least 100 pistols to such criminals. “ We had received a tip off about interstate arms smugglers who were selling fire arms to criminals and gangsters in Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The two had posed as milkmen, had attached milk canisters on their bike and had come to sell the weapons. Even the bike they were using turned out to be a stolen one. It was stolen from Nuh, Mewat,” said Shankar Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police(Dwarka). The officer said that police recovered 10 country-made pistols from the milk canister and are now on the lookout for a man named Bharat, who had engaged the two men.Police said that they had analyzed a number of shooting incidents in the Dwarka area and found that pistols used in these cases were smuggled from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “A separate team was tasked to collect intelligence on the source of the weapons. The team found that two men Kuldeep and Dilbagh were actively smuggling the firearm. We then studied their modus operandi and kept close watch on the activities of the gang,” said Chaudhary.Police said the two men were arrested from Jaffarpur’s Rawta Mor on November 22 after the police team laid a trap. A man named Bharat, resident of Jewar in Uttar Pradesh had directed them to smuggle the weapons.In cases of weapons seized from city criminals, Delhi police have in these years pinned the source of country made pistols to illegal factories in places such as Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh, Agra, Mathura, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Police have also found that pistols were smuggled into Delhi from factories of Dhar, Khargone, Burhanpur, Indore, Gwalior and Sendwa in Madhya Pradesh, and also Khagariya and Munger in Bihar. At least 2000 illegal country made pistols are seized every year in Delhi. In the last few months, police have launched a crackdown on smuggling of illegal fire arms to stop gang wars in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-two-arrested-for-smuggling-guns-in-milk-canisters-101637779524922.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Air in Noida, Ghaziabad back to ‘very poor’ zone as wind speed drops||The ‘poor’ but significantly better air prevailing over Delhi-NCR a day ago was short-lived as low wind speed on Wednesday aggravated the pollution levels, pushing the air quality of the region to the ‘very poor’ category. According to the air quality index (AQI) bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Wednesday, the AQI in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida was 366, 312 and 325 compared to AQI readings of 268, 255 and 252 a day earlier. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said the deterioration in the air quality is due to the low wind speed. “The winds blowing in the past two days were sufficient to disperse pollutants. The wind speed dropped considerably on Wednesday. As a result, pollutants have again got trapped in the region and are not getting dispersed,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “Our teams are tracking the local pollution sources in different areas and also in the hotspots. The deterioration in air quality is temporary and will improve once the wind picks up speed,” he said. Experts from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said wind speed was considerably low on Wednesday. “Currently, wind is moving at a speed of 5-10kmph. This was about 15-25kmph on Monday,” said R K Jenamani, senior scientist at the IMD. Meanwhile, the forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said on Wednesday that the local surface winds will remain relatively low for the next three days that will reduce the dispersion of pollution and lead to deterioration of air quality. “But air quality is likely to be within ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. On November 27, local surface winds are likely to increase, resulting in improvement of air quality but expected to be within ‘very poor’ category,” said the forecast.  With the onset of winter, local weather conditions are likely to determine the air quality, added the forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-in-noida-ghaziabad-back-to-very-poor-zone-as-wind-speed-drops-101637779346022.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||National Family Health Survey-5: Improvement in UP, say major indicators||LUCKNOW: Only 1.5% women aged between 30 and 49 years in Uttar Pradesh have ever undergone a screening test for cervical cancer in life, as per the findings of the National Family Health Survery-5 (NFHS-5). The findings that were released on Wednesday said many health indicators had improved in the state. Less domestic violence with women was reported in the family survey while the sex ratio also improved. In urban areas, 1.1% and in rural areas 1.7% women respondents said they underwent screening, revealing rural women scored better when it came to awareness and screening for cervical cancer. The number of women between the age of 30 and 49 years, who had ever undergone a breast examination for cancer, was poor at 0.4%, both in rural and urban areas surveyed. Doctors said women still needed to prioritise their health, particularly towards ailments such as cervical and breast cancer. “Women often feel shy to discuss their health issues. Whether it is body pain or a lump in the breast, they refrain fromvisiting doctors unless unbearable. Women need to pay more attention towards their health to ensure they make use of the health facilities that have improved in the state,” said Dr Amita Shukla, senior gynaecologist, SC Trivedi Memorial Trust Hospital. Similarly, the number of women who had ever undergone an oral cavity examination for cancer was just 0.6% both in urban and rural areas. When the same question was put to men, 1.1% of them said they had. Among urban men the ratio was 1.0% and among rural men it was 1.2%. The National Family Health Survey 2020-21 (NFHS-5), the fifth in the NFHS series, provides information on population, health and nutrition for India and each state/union territory (UT). It also provides district-level estimates for many important indicators. The indicators say use of family planning methods and institutional delivery went up and diarrhoea infection among kids went down. The data said breastfeeding till the age of six months went up from 41.6% to 59.7% in five years and overall vaccination graph went up from 51.1% to 69.6%. “People in the state are more aware now regarding child health. Myths have been eliminated, hence programme implementation has become smooth and the credit goes to field staff also,” said Dr ved Prakash, GM, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram. Violence among spouses Less domestic violence with women was reported in the family survey. In all, 34.8% married women aged between 18 and 49 years said they had experienced spousal violence. This figure in the same age group in NFHS-4 was 36.8%. IN urban areas the ratio was 32.7% and rural areas 35.5% according to NFHS-5. When married women aged between 18 and 49 years were asked if they had experienced physical violence during any pregnancy, 3.7% responded in the affirmative as compared to 4.3% during NFHS-4. When young women aged between 18 and 29 years were asked if they experienced sexual violence by age 18, in all 0.7% said yes as compared to 1.1% in NFHS-4. Sex ratio shows improvement in Uttar Pradesh The sex ratio has also shown improvement in the state. The sex ratio of the total population (females per 1,000 males) has reached 1017 in the NFHS-5 against 995 that was reported in the NFHS 4, conducted between 2015 and 2016. According to the data, urban sex ratio is 1036, better than rural which is 961. The sex ratio at birth has also improved in NFHS 5, as the data shows 941 females per 1000 males against 903 in NFHS 4. In rural parts of the state, this ratio is 943 and in urban 933.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/national-family-health-survey-5-improvement-in-up-say-major-indicators-101637779344890.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||SOP released for newly formed cyber police stations in Delhi||Ahead of December 1, when the 15 newly created cyber cell police stations in each of the 15 police districts will start their operations, Delhi Police has issued a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for the police stations. The SOP which was circulated to all district police officers includes a timeline for handling each type of complaint, officers said. For example, in cases of child pornography or harassing children by misusing their identity, it is mandatory to start processing the complaint, calling the victims, and getting in touch with the online service provider within 24 hours. The SOP shows that in case police do not find sufficient evidence to file an FIR, then the action taken report should be filed within 14 days,” reads the SOP circular.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) KPS Malhotra, head of the city’s cyber cell, now called the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO), said, “ The dedicated stations will ensure that justice is delivered to complainants. Earlier, there were cyber cell teams in each district but now we will have dedicated stations. We urge residents to visit these stations with their complaints. The IFSO is also there to deal with complex cyber crimes that need investigation at a larger level.”In the backdrop of rising online crimes reported by citizens across the city, the Central government on November 17 notified the new police stations to tackle common online crimes such as phishing, cheating, child pornography, and online harassment, among others. Documents seen by HT shows that for each station a budget of around ₹ 2 crore, to buy forensic tools, has already been approved by the police headquarters. There will be at least 38 personnel tasked with investigations. The police station will be headed by an officer of the rank of assistant police commissioner and assisted by three inspectors, eight sub-inspectors and others. To ensure that investigation of cyber crimes remains the only focus of these stations, personnel from the cyber crime police station will not be engaged in law and order duties, officers said.For online frauds or cheating case, the time period given to the investigating officer is a week and the action taken report must be filed within five weeks, the SOP stated.Since the pandemic lockdown last year, online crimes had seen a meteoric rise, police sources said. Police have in the past attributed the rise to more people working from homes and using the internet more, especially to shop. According to police data, while they received about 1,500 to 2,000 cyber crime complaints every month preceding the lockdown, the number of such cases during the lockdown, between April and August, 2020, increased to around 3,000 to 4,500 a month. The cases decreased once the lockdown restrictions were eased and the police currently get about 3,000 to 3,500 complaints every month.Cyber Expert Amit Dubey said such police stations should have been started years ago. “ It is never too late though. We saw how cyber criminals across the country were active last year. Having cyber police stations will ensure that trained officers, who have skills and knowledge (unlike other police personnel posted in regular local stations) to deal with cyber frauds, are dealing with the cases. Police, however, must ensure that the cases are brought to a logical end at these stations. Crimes will only stop the day people are prosecuted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sop-released-for-newly-formed-cyber-police-stations-in-delhi-101637779286718.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 278 new cases, 15 deaths||On Wednesday, Pune district has reported 278 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,037 deaths and 1,974 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 49,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 114 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 367,423 and the death toll stood at 6,965 as 13 more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 97 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 522,732 and the death toll stood at 9,214 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 67 new cases and the progressive count went up to 269,622 and the toll stood at 3,509 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 46,187 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and in total 12,820,296. Of which 8,026,249 are first doses and 4,794,047 are second doses. A total of 602 sites saw vaccination of which 451 were government centres and 151 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-278-new-cases-15-deaths-101637779285338.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||DDA flats allottees say agency demanding money, but houses unfinished||Allottees of the Delhi Development Authority’s 2021 housing scheme, which was launched in January, have said that the agency has asked them to make the payment by January next year even as 348 flats in Dwarka are still under construction.The allottees demanded the DDA to extend the date of payment by a few months or till the land-owning agency is in a position to hand over the flats.The allotment of these Middle Income Group (MIG) category flats was put on hold by the DDA immediately after the draw of lots was conducted in March this year, as the construction work was not complete. The DDA put 1,353 flats on sale in its housing scheme of 2021.“Why has the DDA issued demand-cum-allotment letters to us when the flats are not ready?” said Ashish Seghal, an allottee.He added, “We have been asked to deposit the money by mid-January next year. After that we will have to pay a penalty. I visited the site last week. There is a lot of work which is pending. The Sewerage Treatment Plant is yet to be constructed, the park is yet to be developed, finishing work is pending.”The allottees also questioned the land-owning agency’s decision to put these flats on sale when the construction work was not complete.Arun Aggarwal, another allottee, said, “The DDA is yet to get fire clearance for the buildings. Can DDA assure us that we will be able to move into our flats by January end? Moreover, while other allottees were given an extension to pay the full amount, we have been given just three months. We want the DDA to extend the payment duration. We have taken up the matter with the DDA.”The buyers also asked why DDA was levying 10% surcharge on the cost of flats in Dwarka. Aggarwal said, “This surcharge has not been levied on MIG flats in Vasant Kunj. It is usually levied on High Income Group (HIG) flats. The parameters for all MIG flats should be the same.”A senior DDA official, who is aware of the development, said, “We have applied for fire clearance and the remaining construction work will be completed soon. We will be handing over the flats to people in January. So far no extension is being considered for payment.”Meanwhile, of the 1,353 flats, close to 400 have been returned by allottees so far. DDA is planning to come out with another housing scheme to dispose of the flats returned by allottees of past housing schemes. Close to 15,000 flats will be put on sale again in December, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-flats-allottees-say-agency-demanding-money-but-houses-unfinished-101637779224796.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Farmer issues will be resolved on priority, says addl chief secy||To ensure that farmer protests do not spoil the grand foundation laying ceremony of the Noida international airport on Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday interacted with farmers and promised to address their grievances on priority.A section of farmers, whose land is acquired for the airport project in Jewar, Greater Noida, are angry for multiple reasons that include a hefty fee that is being charged for getting an electricity connection in the airport township, where displaced farmers are being rehabilitated. Also, some farmers are yet to get plots farmers and the services at the township are incomplete, farmers have alleged.Additional chief secretary SP Goyal, along with other officials, on Thursday inspected the township in Jewar Bangar and also interacted with farmers to understand their issues.“Farmers are happy with the airport as it has changed their life and, in the future, it will create huge opportunities for them as it will for the entire region. We interacted with farmers at the township and they all are happy with the airport project,” said Goyal.Farmers said basic facilities such as a cremation ground have not been provided in the airport township.“The Gautam Budh Nagar administration is yet to provide residential plots to some farmers and also fulfil its promises on jobs. The administration should settle all issues related to rehabilitation without delay,” said Mukesh Kumar, a farmer from Rohi village.The administration acquired and handed over 1,334 hectares of land to airport concessionaire who has already taken possession of the land. And the administration is now in the process of acquiring another 1,365 hectares for the second phase of the greenfield airport. However, farmers are demanding higher compensation this time.Asked about these concerns, Goyal said, “The administration is already addressing every issue of farmers and it will continue to resolve their issues on priority. We acquired the 1,334 hectares under phase 1 with the support of farmers. Similarly, we will do so for the second phase as well. It is quite visible that farmers are supporting this project happily as it will create opportunities for them — the land rate has already picked up in Jewar and other villages nearby.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-farmer-issues-will-be-resolved-on-priority-says-addl-chief-secy-101637779164993.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Man booked for assaulting wife over whatsApp message||A man beat his wife after being irked by a message she posted on whatsApp. The woman later registered an FIR against her husband, accusing him of assault at the Hasanganj police station on Tuesday. According to the FIR, Renu Shukla, a housewife and resident of CSIR colony under Hasanganj police station limits approached the police on Tuesday and accused her husband Mridul of abusing and assaulting her. In her complaint, Renu stated that her husband was angry with her for sharing her whatsApp status and started abusing her soon after he returned home around 9 pm on Monday. She alleged Mridul assaulted her when she objected to his abuses. She said Mridul asked her not to share whatsApp in future and threatened her with dire consequences. In her complaint, she claimed that her husband stopped beating her only when their son intervened. The police said the accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 for voluntarily causing hurt, 504 for insulting and 506 for criminal intimidation. Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur said the investigation officer has been directed to summon the accused and take stern action against him on the basis of investigation findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-booked-for-assaulting-wife-over-whatsapp-message-101637779106992.html
25-11-2021||Pune||Jumbo centres to stay in Pune as active Covid cases rise in 2 weeks||Even as the perception that the number of Covid-19 cases is going down has led to people lowering their guard and more commercial activities opening up, Pune city is witnessing a rise in the number of active cases. In the last two weeks, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Pune city alone has jumped from 647 to 823. While the number of critical cases has not shown any drastic change due to patients resorting to temporary solutions and over-the-counter medication according to doctors, the surge in active cases has prompted the civic body not to shut down jumbo centres, yet.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday hinted that while the Covid-19 task force is in favour of opening primary classes (Classes 1 to 4) as the number of cases is going down, a large number of new cases are being seen in the 11 to 20 years’ age group. While the number of cases continued to fall post- Ganpati, Navratri and Dassera despite the huge gatherings witnessed, the situation seems a bit alarming post-Diwali. As per Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, in the past two weeks between November 8 and 24, the number of active Covid-19 cases has risen by 176. However, the number of critical cases has not changed during this time.Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, paediatrician with multiple hospitals in the city, said, “We are not seeing a rise in the number of children admitted to hospitals but we do get to know from their parents much later that they took off-the-counter medication which suppressed the symptoms at the time which could re-emerge later.” Despite a lower hospitalisation rate however, the PMC is not yet firm on shutting down the jumbo centres and is keeping its hospitals ready in case of any surge in Covid-19 cases in future.Ravindra Bhinwade, additional municipal commissioner, said, “As of now, the jumbo centres are shut as there is no need for them as we are also opening up our other hospitals which were earlier only dedicated to Covid-19 patients. While the number of hospitalised patients has gone down, we hope we don’t have to restart the Covid-19 centres. However, if the number rises, we can always restart them and we have our staff on standby. As far as shutting down or dismantling the centres is concerned, the decision will be taken by the deputy chief minister during the Covid-19 review meeting and we will act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jumbo-centres-to-stay-in-pune-as-active-covid-cases-rise-in-2-weeks-101637779105753.html
25-11-2021||Noida||Farmer leader Sukhbir Khalifa, and 228 others booked for blocking traffic||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has registered an FIR against farmer leader Sukhbir Khalifa, as well as 28 identified and over 200 unidentified others for allegedly blocking the traffic at the Zero Point of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and violating prohibitory orders put in place under Section 144 CrPC on Tuesday.Hundreds of farmers, protesting against the Noida authority demanding better compensation for their land, marched towards Dadri via the Noida-Greater Noida expressway on Tuesday to stage a protest outside the residence of MLA Tejpal Nagar, as part of their protest against local leaders. Earlier, they had held similar protests outside the residences of Gautam Budh Nagar member of Parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh.According to police, farmers, led by Sukhbir Khalifa, the founder president of Bharatiya Kisan Parishad, blocked traffic at the Zero Point of the expressway, thereby triggering an over 5km long traffic jam.“The farmers blocked the expressway and violated Section 144 CrPC due to which traffic was blocked on the road. Ambulances carrying patients also got stuck in the jam. The jam was over 5km long and roads were blocked by protesters for over two and a half hours. It was only after police force reached the spot, along with senior officials, that traffic movement was restored,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, station house officer, Knowledge Park Police Station.The officials said an FIR was filed under the Indian Penal Code sections 147 (rioting), 341 (wrongful restraint), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt.), 353 (assault or criminal force) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act against Khalifa and 228 other identified and unidentified people.When asked, Khalifa said protesters were stopped from going to Dadri MLA’s house which is why the traffic was blocked on the expressway.“We were on our way to stage a sit-in protest outside the residence of Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar in a civilised manner. However, the MLA along with police reached the Zero Point to stop us, and told us that he is leaving for Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s event. He told us to put forward our demands right there on the expressway. So how can we be held responsible for the jam?” he said. Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmer-leader-sukhbir-khalifa-and-228-others-booked-for-blocking-traffic-101637778925930.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Young girl reunites with family, courtesy UPMRC staff||Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) staff reunited a 15-year-old girl, found roaming near gate number 2 of Durgapuri metro station, with her parents on Wednesday. When asked about her whereabouts, the girl looked distressed and was unable to give clear answers. The security staff of metro then reported the matter to the on-duty station controller Sneha Varma, who took the girl to station control room (SCR) where she was offered biscuits and tea. She later told Varma that she had separated from her family while commuting between Charbagh to Barabanki on November 22. After this the station controller contacted her father who had by then approached the police in Barabanki and informed the cops about his daughter having gone missing. MD, UPMRC Kumar Keshav said: “The entire staff of Lucknow Metro is committed towards providing safety to female passengers. The staff is always ready to help any passenger in distress.” “After due verification and completing official formalities, the girl was handed over to her guardians in presence of police by the on-duty station controller,” Keshav said praising the metro staff for their alertness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/young-girl-reunites-with-family-courtesy-upmrc-staff-101637778809046.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Second phase of works at Noida international airport to begin from 2031||The Noida international airport in Jewar, the first phase of which will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, will commence the second phase of construction by 2031-32, said officials from the civil aviation ministry in the know of the matter.The estimated cost of the Noida international airport is around ₹29,560 crore, of which the first phase, which will cater to 12 million passengers per annum (on completion), entails an outlay of ₹4,588 crore. A total of 1,334 hectares of land have been allocated for the first phase of the airport project, that will be constructed in four phases. Two runways will be constructed in the first phase. According to officials in the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA), the first flight is expected to take off from the airport in 2024 once the works in the first phase are completed. “Jewar airport will help in the development of the nation. It will be Asia’s biggest airport. It will also create employment opportunities for more than one lakh [100,000] people,” Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia told ANI. “The Prime Minister is closely monitoring the airport’s development. Operations from the second phase ofthe airport is expected to commence from 2036-37,”said Rajiv Bansal, secretary, MoCA. After the completion of the works in the second phase, the airport is expected to handle 30 million passengers. Works proposed in the third phase of the airport is likely to start from 2036-37. Once completed, the airport will cater to 50 million passengers per annum. The fourth phase, whose construction is expected to start from around 2040, is expected to handle 70 million passengers per year.“Apart from three greenfield airports (Jewar, Mopa and Navi Mumbai), expansion work in brownfield airports is being done across the country,” said Bansal. He added currently, Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport is also being expanded, after which it will handle 110 million passengers. Currently, the passenger handling capacity of Delhi airport is 69 million/year. The Delhi International Airport Limited has invested ₹10,000 crore for the expansion work. “Apart from the fourth runway that is being constructed, the Delhi airport will also see parallel taxiways and new terminal buildings,” said a MoCA official in the know of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-phase-of-works-at-noida-international-airport-to-begin-from-2031-101637778685040.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Administrators welcome decision to reopen schools in Delhi, parents hesitant||School administrators in the Capital welcomed the government’s decision to allow the reopening of schools for in-person classes from Monday, while parents said they were hesitant.Schools in Delhi were asked to suspend in-person classes on November 13 on account of a spike in pollution, barely two weeks after they had reopened for all students for the first time since March last year.School heads said that the learning gap was exacerbated due to frequent school closures and sought that schools be allowed to function without further disruptions.Sudha Acharya, the principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, a consortium of over 120 private Delhi schools, welcomed the decision.“The reopening of schools was much needed. Students have stayed away from school for a very long time and it’s time that they return to the classrooms. Parents can also make preparations in the next few days before Monday’s reopening,” said Acharya.She said that the school was planning to reopen for students in senior classes followed by students in other grades, since a number of classrooms would be occupied by students appearing for the board exams. “At least students in classes 9 and 11 should start coming to school from Monday so that we can hold exams that were disrupted due to the abrupt closure of schools,” said Acharya.Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Schools, said that it was unfortunate that schools had been closed for a prolonged period on account of the pandemic and pollution. He said that it was imperative that all stakeholders, including policymakers, work together for the resumption of schools.“Most rural schools under our umbrella had reported good attendance before they were closed due to pollution. They are looking forward to reopening successfully once again,” said Arora.He said that schools had taken consent from parents for transportation services earlier and were working towards the resumption of bus services.Arora added that schools that were serving as CBSE board exam centres will have to make some adjustments before the resumption of in-person classes.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, and head of a government school in Rohini, also said that the school will have to meticulously plan the timetable to ensure that regular classes are held smoothly along with the board examination. The school will be conducting term-end examinations for students in non-board classes starting next week.“From December 1, term-end exams will also start. We will have to conduct both the home exams and board exams and make arrangements accordingly,” said Yadav.Parents had mixed feelings regarding the resumption of in-person classes from Monday.Aprajita Gautam, president, Delhi Parents’ Association, said that the decision to reopen schools from November 29 was hasty.“Looking at the current pollution levels, we believe that if the government decides to delay the opening of schools for a few more days and at the same time decides to run school buses for more convenience, then it will be much better,” said Gautam.Nidhi Mehta, a parent whose daughter studies in Class 4, said that while she was not eager to send her daughter to school, her daughter was looking forward to it.“While I am not very enthused about sending my daughter to school right now, she is eagerly waiting to go back. Since the number of students is expected to be low, I don’t think it will be an issue if she goes to school. We were satisfied with the protocols adopted by the school when it reopened earlier this month,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/administrators-welcome-decision-to-reopen-schools-in-delhi-parents-hesitant-101637777664796.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Rebel Congress lawmaker Aditi Singh, BSP MLA Bandana Singh join BJP||Rebel Congress lawmaker from Rae Bareli (Sadar) assembly seat Aditi Singh, 34, along with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Bandana Singh joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Lucknow on Wednesday.Both women are first-time lawmakers and had won the 2017 UP assembly polls from politically key constituencies. Aditi Singh is from Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency which Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has been winning since 2004 and which the BJP has now set its sights on. Bandana Singh is the MLA from Sagri in Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav. Though part of a larger plan to unsettle the Congress and the SP in their bastions in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, BJP leaders admit that the joining of these two women MLAs has an immediate relevance: the 2022 UP assembly elections. “So far, Priyanka Gandhi, who has been very active hasn’t revealed, if she would contest the 2022 UP polls and from where? Chances are that she might settle for the only surviving family bastion in Rae Bareli and if that happens, we have our plans in place. If that doesn’t happen, we will be better prepared for 2024 in this region. As for the SP, its chief Akhilesh Yadav had, after denying plans to contest 2022 elections, subsequently dropped hints that he might. If he does contest, or fields his wife Dimple, then of course, Azamgarh, where SP has an impressive track record, could be an obvious choice for them. If nothing else, these opposition names would help build atmosphere against the Congress, SP and the BSP,” a BJP leader said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, too, while keeping mum on if the party would field the two on the BJP ticket in forthcoming 2022 UP polls, did admit that the women lawmakers from the opposition were key takeaways that his party would capitalise on. “Two popular women lawmakers have joined the BJP, one to take on Sonia and Priyanka and the other for Akhilesh and Dimple Yadav,” he said. Priyanka Gandhi had recently launched the Congress campaign, promising 40% tickets to women in 2022 UP polls, but the state BJP chief said the joining of women from opposition ranks was proof which party had done more for women empowerment. Azamgarh has been a Samajwadi Party bastion as the party had won nine of the 10 assembly seats in 2012 and even in the subsequent BJP wave in 2017 UP polls, it had won five assembly seats there. Bandana Singh’s husband Sarvesh had contested the 2007 polls on Samajwadi Party ticket and had joined the BSP in 2010. In 2012, he contested as BSP candidate and lost to the SP. In 2013, Sarvesh was murdered after which Bandana Singh had contested the 2017 elections and won as a BSP MLA. BSP chief Mayawati had suspended Bandana Singh and six other party MLAs in October 2020 after they opposed the nomination of the party’s official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha.“I am very impressed with Modi-Yogi,” said Aditi Singh who had resisted the BJP wave in the 2017 UP elections by winning her seat. The BJP made inroads in Rae Bareli by winning three of the five assembly seats for the first time in 2017 elections. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got Congress MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh, a key aide of Sonia Gandhi in Rae Bareli, to defect to BJP and later made him contest against Sonia. The BJP staged a major upset, defeating the then Congress chief Rahul Gandhi from adjoining Amethi Lok Sabha constituency. In Rae Bareli, though Dinesh Pratap Singh lost to Sonia, he later played a key role in BJP win in the panchayat polls in the Congress bastion, party leaders admitted. Aditi Singh, who was given ‘Y’ category security by the Yogi Adityanath government had praised the abrogation of Article 370, granting special status to Jammu and Kashmir by the BJP government. She had in 2019 also attended the 36-hour assembly session convened by UP BJP government to celebrate the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi despite the fact that all major opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress, had boycotted the special session. “We aren’t upset at these developments because with opportunists out, we can safely surmise that those who have remained are true soldiers of the Congress party. The party has suffered due to black sheep, which remained within and harmed the party,” said Congress leader Zeeshan Haider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rebel-congress-lawmaker-aditi-singh-bsp-mla-vandana-singh-join-bjp-101637768664411.html
25-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh announces ₹25 lakh aid for kin of farmers who died during stir||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday announced financial aid of ₹25 lakh to every family of those farmers who lost their lives in the agitation against the three new agriculture reform laws in the past one year.The aid of ₹25 lakh would be given soon after formation of an SP government in Uttar Pradesh, a party spokesman said.“SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has promised to give a sum of ₹25 lakh as Kisan Shahadat Samman Rashi to the family of every farmer who died in the agitation against the three farm laws,” said SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary in a press statement issued here.Chaudhary said former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has always remained sensitive towards the issues of farmers. He said the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP government (2012-17) had implemented a number of welfare schemes for farmers.He also said policies about remunerative prices, cheaper power to farmers, free irrigation and availability of fertilisers to farmers were the result of the policies of the SP government.He said under Akhilesh Yadav’s leadership, the SP was always with the farmers. The SP strongly opposed the three farm laws and farmers have been framed in different cases by the BJP government, Chaudhary said. He said a large number of farmers, too, went to jail during the period.Uttar Pradesh government spokesman and senior minister Sidharth Nath Singh has meanwhile reacted sharply to the SP chief’s move to give aid as his “fake” concern for the farmers. Singh said the farmers understood this was another gimmick of the SP ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-announces-25-lakh-financial-assistance-for-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-agitation-101637766504156.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality slips back to ‘very poor’ category; shallow fog likely||Parts of New Delhi were likely to be shrouded in shallow fog on Wednesday morning, while the Capital’s air quality yet again plunged to the “very poor” category.The hourly air quality index (AQI) reading at 7am was 350, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 290, which was in the “poor” category. The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.On the weather front, the minimum temperature was likely to be 9 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and the maximum of 27 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. Also Read: Behind differing farm fire counts: Satellite resolution, methodologyNew Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday was 10.3 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 26.7 degrees Celsius. According to the IMD’s weekly forecast, shallow fog in the morning is likely till Saturday morning. The city’s minimum temperature is expected to stay between 9 and 11 degrees Celsius over the next three days. On Tuesday, the union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said the AQI is likely to be in the “poor” and “lower end of very poor” categories till Friday. “Winds at transport level are likely to slow down and also change direction from the northwest to south-southeast tomorrow and north or northwest on Thursday. Local surface winds are also relatively low for the next three days that reduces dispersion of pollutants leading to deterioration. The net effect is that air quality is likely to be in the ‘poor’ or ‘lower end of very poor’ categories for the next three days,” the SAFAR predicted.SAFAR said local surface winds are likely to pick up soon, resulting in an improvement in New Delhi’s air quality from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-slips-back-to-very-poor-category-shallow-fog-likely-101637722460733.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||‘Pollution down by at least 15% as a result of air panel’s curbs’||Pollution levels in Delhi went down by at least 15% as a result of the curbs implemented by the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM), observations by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) Early Warning System has shown, even as experts asked why the forecasts were not used to announce pre-emptive measures.Scientists at IITM, Pune said that when CAQM announced a slew of directives for Delhi and NCR states to control pollution sources on November 16, the EWS predicted the air quality in the national capital to slip into the ‘severe’ category on November 17 and November 18. But, the 4pm average air quality index of Delhi remained in the very poor category.IITM scientists attributed this to the restrictions on polluting activities such as construction, thermal power plants and truck movement in the NCR.Air levels in Delhi were consistently in the poor zone since October 27, and plunged further to very poor between November 2 and 4 (the day Diwali was celebrated). Between November 5 and 13, Delhi recorded seven ‘severe’ air quality days.Taking cognisance of the persistent poor run of air quality, the Supreme Court on November 13 ordered the Delhi and central governments to take emergent measures to curb hazardous levels of air pollution in the national capital. The same day, the Delhi government announced shutting of schools, banned construction and announced work from home for the government staff.The CAQM held a meeting, on the orders of the Supreme Court, on November 16, and announced ban on construction activities, ordered schools to shut down and prohibited entry of trucks into Delhi till November 21. The federal panel is expected to decide on the continuation of these measures in a meeting on Wednesday.“When the commission announced these measures, our air quality forecasts for the week were already in place. We did not recalibrate it to see the difference and found that instead of falling into the severe zone, the AQI in Delhi showed an improvement because the polluting sources were not contributing as much as they did on a regular day,” said Sachin Ghude, a scientist at IITM Pune.The EWS observations showed that on November 16, the day the directions were announced by the CAQM, the AQI forecast for Delhi was 391 and the final recorded AQI that day was 393, a difference of only two points.On November 17, the EWS forecast said that the AQI may touched 487, the highest AQI value that Delhi would have recorded this season. However, with the pollution restrictions, the AQI levels settled in the very poor category, with a reading of 355 on the EWS scale. Similarly, on November 18, the forecast said that the AQI should have been 414, also in the severe zone, but the actual recording was 357.The AQI recordings of EWS are slightly different from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data because of the different technology used by the two agencies. According to CPCB, Delhi recorded an average AQI of 403 on November 16, 375 on November 17 and 347 on November 18.“We have now recalibrated our forecasts keeping the restrictions. But our observations do say that Delhi saw around a 15-22% reduction in pollution levels because of these measures by the CAQM,” Ghude added.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said better wind speed also played an important role in the improvement of air quality during the period for which the IITM analysed its forecast data.A senior Met official, who asked not to be named, said that from November 16 to November 19, Delhi was battling low wind speeds and considerably unfavourable ventilation conditions, which was not allowing pollutants to disperse easily. But, wind speed improved from November 20, played a huge role in improved air quality.“The winds were in the low to moderate range till Friday, after which it improved. The stubble burning instances have also been on the lower end throughout last week. All these factors cannot be ignored while assessing the reasons behind an improvement in air quality,” a senior Met official explained.Environment experts said the post-Diwali toxic air spell in the Capital could have been prevented if the commission had implemented these measures earlier.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said forecast-based forecast-based monitoring of pollution needs to be leveraged in order to ensure pre-emptive action“What stopped the agencies to take this action when Delhi had already recorded so many severe air days right after Diwali? Agencies need to focus on pre-emptive action based on air quality forecasts to prevent such spikes,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-down-by-at-least-15-as-a-result-of-air-panel-s-curbs-101637694415224.html
25-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi air may improve as wind speed picks up: IMD||After nearly 20 days of breathing hazardous air this month, Delhi’s air quality is set to improve marginally from November 21, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said Friday.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading on Friday was 380, categorised as “very poor”. While this was a few points higher than Thursday’s 347, also considered “very poor” on CPCB’s AQI scale, forecasters said they expect wind speed to improve from Sunday, facilitating the dispersion of pollutants.An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.“While the winds will continue to blow from the northwest, the speed will pick up and this will help disperse the accumulated pollutants. We are hoping that after November 21, the AQI will come down to the ‘poor’ range,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre.Soni explained that another factor for the improvement of air quality during the weekend is the reduction in the stubble fire count in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that on Friday, 1,077 fires were recorded in both the states, which contributed to 3% of the Capital’s PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels. According to experts, PM2.5 is the dominant pollutant in the region.Meanwhile, the temperature in Delhi remained in the normal range. Forecasters said that while the city usually sees at least three or four western disturbances in the month of November, this year it has not experienced an active western disturbance since October 24.A western disturbance refers to an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India.On Friday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is the official marker for the city, was 25.9 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 10.9 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.“If we experience a western disturbance, the temperature will see a drastic drop,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.River of smokeOn Friday, American space agency Nasa on Friday shared several satellite images (that were taken on November 11) of farm fires-- which have led to a spike in the levels of air pollution in Delhi -- spreading all the way across the Indo-Gangetic plains as a thick plume of smoke. In the images, the Capital is almost completely shrouded by the smoke, which continues well beyond Agra, with Nasa indicating this is likely to have affected over 22 million people in a single day.The images were taken by Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) on the Suomi NPP satellite on November 11, Nasa informed on its blog.“Looking at the size of the plume on November 11 and the population density in this area, I would say that a conservative estimate is that at least 22 million people were affected by smoke on this one day,” said Pawan Gupta, a Universities Space Research Association (USRA) scientist at Nasa’s Marshall Space Flight Center.Delhi’s air quality was in the “severe” category on November 11, with AQI of 411, with the government forecasting body Safar pegging the share of farm fire contribution to Delhi’s PM 2.5 to be 26% that day.According to Safar, while the contribution from farm fires has reduced, the local wind speed is calm, thereby trapping pollutants. “Local surface winds are low at the moment with moderate ventilation of near surface pollutants. From Sunday onwards, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality,” it said.In the blog, Nasa scientists said while lingering monsoon rain kept fire activity low for a few weeks longer than usual, elevated fire activity was observed in November. They added that fires in northern Pakistan also likely contributed to some of the smoke on November 11.According to experts, meteorological conditions and other factors can also contribute to hazy skies, with dust from the Thar desert contributing to the haze on November 12, 2021, a separate image shared by the space agency showed.Hiren Jethva, an USRA scientist based at Nasa’s Goddard Space Flight Center, who uses measures of “greenness,” or Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) to anticipate fire activity each year, said this summer has seen one of the largest NDVI values in the last 20 years, based on which he had predicted this season to record a fairly high fire count. The data he uses comes from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on Nasa’s Aqua satellite.“I had predicted this would be one of the most active fire seasons on record, and that is exactly what we have seen,” said Jethva. “We still have a few weeks of burning to go, but already Aqua MODIS has detected more than 17,000 hotspots in Punjab and Haryana—making this the most active fire season on record.”Data from the last decade shows stubble burning is generally at its most active between October 15 and November 15, with a drop in activity seen from the third week of November onwards. LS Kurinji, Programme Associate at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), says after a late spike in the number of farm fires this year, numbers have started dropping again with less than 1,000 fire counts recorded in the last two days.“Previously, scientific reports indicated that it takes 14-22 hours for smoke from Punjab and Haryana to reach Delhi under favourable meteorological conditions. Data from Safar indicates that on days when winds blew from the northwest, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 level was in the range of 20-50% this year,” she explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-may-improve-as-wind-speed-picks-up-imd-101637347631548.html
