26-11-2021||Other||Ready for debate with Sisodia on govt schools: Pargat||Jalandhar Punjab school education minister Pargat Singh on Friday welcomed Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s suggestion to compare the state’s government schools with those in Delhi. “I challenge Sisodia to take 250 schools each of Punjab and Delhi, instead of 10, and compare these on the NPGI (National Performance Grading Index) and also debate on school infrastructure and number of smart classrooms. We will also study development of schools in rural and border areas of the state,” Pargat, who addressed a press conference on the issue on Friday, said. A former Olympian, Pargat categorically added that as a general principle, Punjab’s 19,377 schools could not be compared with just 2,767 schools in Delhi. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal must not indulge in cheap publicity and must raise questions of issue-based politics,” he said, adding, “The challenges and complexities of running a full-fledged state like Punjab with far-flung schools were a different challenge than managing schools in compact municipality like Delhi. We have seven-time more schools.” “The department has embarked on the recruitment of nearly 20,000 teachers in schools and colleges, which is expected to be completed by next month. A platform of top educationists from the state has been formed to improve employability,” he added. The minister also claimed that the student-teacher ratio in Punjab was 25, with Delhi at 33. “Punjab has maintained zero percent dropout rate up to upper primary level,” Pargat claimed. SISODIA RESPONDS: SET DATE AND TIME FOR A SCHOOL TOURResponding to Pargat, Sisodia offered to send a list of 250 Delhi schools and also sought a list of 250 government schools from him. Sisodia has also asked Pargat to set a date and time of his choice for a tour of the best schools listed in Delhi and Punjab, and a debate on education system and reforms in the presence of the media. “Punjab’s school education minister has accepted my challenge for a debate on education reforms in 250 schools in Delhi and Punjab. I am waiting for the list of the best 250 schools in Punjab, which have improved in the last 5 years,” he tweeted. Sisodia added that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was visiting Mohali on November 27, where he would meet the protesting teachers. “Who better to tell about improvements made in schools than teachers teaching there?” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ready-for-debate-with-sisodia-on-govt-schools-pargat-101637951387869.html
26-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality in Gurugram ‘very poor’ for third day in a row||The air quality in the city worsened on Friday but continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ category for the third consecutive day even as pollution levels spiked in neighbouring Delhi and Faridabad with the air quality turning ‘severe’. Experts said low wind speed and drop in temperatures have come in the way of effective dispersion of pollutants. According to the air quality index (AQI) bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Gurugram recorded an AQI of 379 on Friday, higher than the recording of 334 on Thursday. Data shared by the air monitoring stations in the city showed that Vikas Sadan and Teri Gram recorded AQI 381, Sector 51 station recorded an AQI of 398, and the recording at Gwal Pahari was 355. According to CPCB guidelines, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 to 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 to 200 ‘moderate’, 201 to 300 ‘poor’, 301 to 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 to 500 ‘severe’.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality is likely to deteriorate further due to static winds.“Mostly calm or slow winds during night are unfavourable for effective dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in the upper end of very poor category on Saturday and Sunday. For the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in very poor category,” said the IMD in its forecast. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was 26 degrees Celsius while the minimum was 10°C. Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor at Teri School of Advanced Studies, said the air quality was deteriorating due to meteorological conditions. “The contribution from external sources of pollution has reduced, local sources of pollution producing dust and vehicular pollution are to be blamed now. We need to take immediate steps to reduce local pollutants as dispersal is not happening,” she said, adding that there could be slight relief from Monday onwards. Meanwhile, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said they have intensified patrolling to curb pollution and also started issuing penalties to those found violating pollution control norms. “Construction sites and industrial areas are continuously being monitored. The objective is to reduce local pollutants. Once the speed of wind improves, the air quality will be better,” said Kuldip Singh, regional officer, north, HSPCB. Officials at the department of town and country planning also said that their teams are continuously moving around in private colonies and enforcing pollution norms. “I went to DLF Phase 1 to interact with residents and apprise them about building plan violations and NGT norms. Instructions were issued to plot owners regarding construction waste management and other matters related to pollution,” said R S Bhath, district town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-in-gurugram-very-poor-for-third-day-in-a-row-101637951208629.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Post 26/11, BMC’s focus: in-house capacity building, communication||The November 26, 2008 Mumbai terror attacks prompted state and civic authorities to identify and tackle loopholes in security, communication, and disaster response, a process that has, according to senior officials, evolved over the last 13 years. Various agencies have reportedly streamlined their standard operating protocols (SOPs), improved coordination between state and central entities, and ensured that surveillance systems are ramped up. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department, the first-responder agency for any emergency situation in the city, focuses on refining two major aspects of disaster response: communication and in-house capacity building. A home department official said, “Though the Disaster Management Act mandates that district, city and state level bodies take care of disaster management, they were not in place. There was confusion over the responsibility, hierarchy and the steps to be taken at any level. It took us hours to activate the Mantralaya control room. Since then, we have modernised the police force, procured weapons and built a CCTV network.” Besides the dedicated National Security Guard (NSG) teams in Mumbai, the state has permanently posted 14 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams in the state, including three in Mumbai and 10 in Pune. “Though specialised operations involving guns or other weapons will be armed forces’ domain, NDRF is equipped and trained to handle any type of disaster including a nuclear attack,” the official said. “Its major role is in rescue and relief. For this, the NDRF has specialised response teams.” “A major lapse during the 26/11 attack was coordination. We have put in place better coordination protocols in accordance with the Pradhan commission recommendations.” The Pradhan Commission report said, “What we have found are instances of lack of intelligent appreciation of threats, handling of intelligence, maintaining high degree of efficiency in instruments specifically set up to deal with terrorist attacks and certainly lack of overt and visible leadership in carrying out operations to face multi-targeted attacks… While senior police officials at Mumbai police headquarters were clueless about the protocol to follow to monitor the situation, the political leadership in Mantralaya took hours to take decisions on steps to be taken.” The home department official said, “Our major achievement was building the CCTV network in Mumbai and other key cities such as Pune, Nagpur, and Aurangabad. Mumbai has a network of 5600 cameras installed by the state government at a cost of ₹1100 crore. The state-owned network has since been integrated with the network of CCTVs owned by Mumbai’s private establishments.” In March 2019, BMC inaugurated its City Institute of Disaster Management in Parel, which houses a second disaster management control room, an exact replica of the main control room at the BMC headquarters. “If the main control room fails, the second one will fire up in 19 seconds,” a civic official said. As part of the GIS-based system, notifications are sent to agencies that need to be mobilised. There is an SOP for each type of disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/post-26-11-bmc-s-focus-in-house-capacity-building-communication-101637951147301.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||BSP keeps away from Constitution Day prog, Mayawati cites reasons||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president Mayawati on Friday asked the central and state governments to seriously think whether or not they were following the Constitution in the true spirit. She had announced in the morning that her party would not take part in the programmes being organised on Constitution Day. In a statement, Mayawati said the benefits given to SC/STs by the Constitution had not reached them. “The government does not have the moral right to celebrate Constitution Day. It should apologise to these sections of society and promptly rectify this shortcoming,” she said. “On Constitution Day, the central and state governments need to seriously review whether or not they are following the Indian Constitution properly in all honesty.The BSP feels that it is not being done and the governments need to think over it,” she said. “There is SC, ST and OBC reservation backlog in government jobs for which they are fighting on the roads. No effort has been made till now to provide reservations in private jobs. The central and state governments are not ready to frame any law for this,” she said. Meanwhile, Mayawati also announced the appointment of Rasra MLA Uma Shankar Singh as leader of the BSP legislature party, after Shah Alam, who was occupying the post, resigned as MLA and from the party on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-keeps-away-from-constitution-day-prog-mayawati-cites-reasons-101637950969568.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||13 years of 26/11: How prepared are we?||On January 5, 2009, two months after 10 sea-borne terrorists launched a deadly attack on Mumbai that left 166 people dead and 238 injured, the Maharashtra government issued a government resolution sanctioning funds to hire boats to patrol the coastline. Three police stations were notified as responsible for coastal policing — their jurisdiction ranged from the seashore to 12 nautical miles off the city’s 114-kilometre coastline.In 2021, the Sagari police, as they are referred to, remains under-equipped. Even today, there are only three stations — Yellow Gate police station in South Mumbai, Sagari 1 at Mahim and Sagari 2 at Gorai in North Mumbai — whose mandate includes investigating and preventing crimes in territorial waters. To be sure, there are other stations whose jurisdiction involves patrolling the coastline, but their jurisdiction only extends to the shore.While Yellow Gate police station —responsible for the coastline between Sassoon docks and Vashi bridge and operating with a sanctioned strength of 152 personnel, including 12 officers — was already tasked with policing the high seas before the 26/11 attack, the other two came up a few years after the terror siege.Sagari I PS, which came up in 2012, has a sanctioned strength of 60 policemen and was tasked to look after coastal security between Sassoon docks and Juhu. Sagari II PS, which came up in 2013 was charged with keeping the northern coast of the city, between Juhu and Dahisar, secure. It has a sanctioned strength of 120 personnel. The force has about 20 boats to patrol the coastline. In 2016, the Mumbai Sagari police acquired 10-speed boats— eight equipped with 500 horsepower (HP) engines and two with 750 HP engines — to patrol territorial waters; the rest patrol the shoreline. However, police officers said that only 12 (including speedboats) are operational. Some break down often, making it risky for policemen to patrol the sea beyond four nautical miles.A senior IPS officer said that the boats have to be sent to the repair centre and spare parts come from the Goa shipping yard, a government facility.A second officer said that at present, three working boats are allotted to the Yellow Gate police station and two each are allotted to Sagari I and Sagari II stations. A team of seven policemen — one sub-inspector, three members of the constabulary, two technical staff members and the driver — patrol the coast within their respective jurisdictions in the speed boats twice a day.In the aftermath of the 26/11 attacks, the Mumbai police were also equipped with 18 amphibious vehicles (though they are called amphibious, they are not sea vehicles), which were distributed to the police stations on coastal areas including Gorai, Malwani, Versova, and Juhu.With their wide tyres, these vehicles move easily on the sand and water. However, from 2013 onwards, some were seen parked at police stations. “Some of these vehicles were working till 2014 and even in 2015, but after that, they became dysfunctional and have since been removed from police stations as well,” said the second police officer.A year after the 26/11 attacks, four Sea-Legs (boats with wheels that can also operate on the shore and road, but with limited speeds) were procured by the state government and provided to Girgaum, Dadar, Juhu and Versova police stations. They too stopped functioning after a few years.“I have not seen them functioning after 2013 because their parts were unavailable in India. Sea-legs were capable of moving on both land and water and could travel at over 40 knots in the water and over 10 km per hour on land,” said a third senior police officer.He said that the spare parts of these vehicles are not available in India.In the latest move to upgrade the infrastructure of the existing Coastal security system, in 2018, the Maharashtra government decided to construct Marine Operation Rooms (MOR) at 10 major landing points of Mumbai’s coast, including Badhwar Park in Colaba where the 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives on the night of November 26, 2008. These rooms are meant to serve as quick response posts for marine combat.“The formation of three MORs would be done on a pilot project basis at Sassoon Docks, Marve in Malad and near Bandra end of the Bandra-Worli Sealink,” a senior Mumbai police officer had said ahead of the 26/11 anniversary in 2018.Three years on, none of the MORs has come up.“We require at least two police personnel posted round-the-clock at each of these landing points. Currently, due to lack of staff, we are compelled to post one person at each of the points, that too without any support of modern equipment,” said a third police officer.“Most importantly, we require more life jackets and bulletproof jackets which are currently in one digit per police station,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-years-of-26-11-how-prepared-are-we-101637950968504.html
26-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: NHAI, contractors fined for failing to curb pollution on Sohna Road||Keeping in line with the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to take action against those failing to take pollution control measures, the state pollution control board on Friday imposed a penalty of ₹10 lakh on the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and its two contractors constructing the elevated road at Sohna. Officials from the pollution control board said its team inspected the entire Sohna road and found that the highways authority and its contractors had not taken exhaustive measures to curb air pollution, despite repeated directions from authorities and the CAQM. Kuldip Singh, regional officer (north), Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said action is being taken against those found violating pollution control norms and neither the government agencies nor the private companies, which are executing various projects, are being spared. “We issued the penalty after our teams found several violations on the Sohna Road. We have closed all stone crushers in this zone, construction has been stopped and project developers have been asked to take adequate measures to curb air pollution,” said Singh. On Thursday, the pollution board’s night patrolling team discovered five locations, where diesel generator sets were being used and were made to turn off. “We imposed an environmental compensation penalty of ₹50,000 on these sites collectively,” said Singh. Officials from the pollution control board said following directions of the Supreme Court and the CAQM, they have intensified action against individual violators as well as companies, which are found violating pollution control norms. “We have decided to impose heavy penalties to send a clear message that violations will not be tolerated,” said Singh. On Thursday, the department imposed a penalty of ₹12.25 lakh on violators across the city. A penalty of ₹10 lakh was also imposed on NHAI and its contractor building the Dwarka Expressway. Three construction sites in Udyog Vihar and one in Sohna were also penalised for violations on Thursday, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-nhai-contractors-fined-for-failing-to-curb-pollution-on-sohna-road-101637950967207.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC stays trial court order directing action against cops in rape case||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed an order of a trial court directing action against a station house officer (SHO ) and an investigating officer (IO) for filing distinct charge sheets in connection with the rape of a minor.Justice Anu Malhotra stayed an order dated November 24 in which the trial court had said that appropriate legal action be taken against the IO and SHO concerned after prima facie opining that they had committed offences of punishable under the Indian Penal Code.“Without any observations on the merits and demerits of the petition, it is considered essential that the State submits its status report in the matter and that furthermore the trial court record in its physical and e form be requisitioned for the next date of hearing. The applications if any filed by the complainant and accused seeking supply of charge sheet be also placed on record under supervision of concerned district and sessions judge…The matter is directed to be re-notified on December 9 till which date the operation of the order dated November 24 is stayed,” the court said.The trial court, in its order dated November 24, observed that the action of the police officers was purely mala fide and vicious while also calling for a compliance report before November 26.While one set of the charge sheets was filed with the court and accused’s counsel, the other was filed with the public prosecutor and complainant’s counsel, wherein material facts were allegedly omitted.On November 17, the court had said that such conduct was a big slap on the motto of Delhi Police “Shanti, Sewa, Nyay” wherein Nyay (justice) had been taken for a ride.Challenging the order, the SHO and IO moved the high court, seeking to set aside the orders and expunging the remarks made by the trial court.Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Geeta Luthra, submitted that there was no deliberate or motivated act on the part of the petitioners and that it was only an inadvertent error.Appearing for the state, additional public prosecutor Rishikesh Kumar, also supported the petition while submitting that an enquiry was in progress.He said that what was placed on the record of the court was only the amended charge sheet and that there was only an inadvertent error on behalf of the petitioners.In this case, the accused person was arrested in March for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl. An FIR was registered under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-stays-trial-court-order-directing-action-against-cops-in-rape-case-101637950847292.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Women have a greater say in healthcare and household purchases: Survey||There has been a significant improvement in the number of women having a say in household decisions pertaining to healthcare and household purchases and the operating of bank accounts, according to the findings of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), released on Wednesday. Experts said that while there were positive developments on the banking and decision-making front, the gains did not translate into land-holding patterns, with the number of women owning land and houses declining. The survey shows that a greater number of women in the age group 15-49 years had a say in making decisions pertaining to healthcare for themselves, major household purchases, and visits to family and relatives. The number of women having a say in these decisions increased from 73.8% in 2015-16 to 92% in 2020-21. The data for the survey was collected in two phases -- between January 4, 2020 and March 2, 2020 (prior to the Covid-19 lockdown), and between November 21, 2020 and January 20, 2021. A total of 9,486 households, 11,159 women, and 1,700 men were surveyed in the Capital. All the comparative figures are from NFHS-4, for which data was collected in 2015-16. The findings also showed that there was a jump in the number of women owning bank accounts from 64.5% to 72.5%. The number of women who own a mobile phone also increased from 66.6% to 73.8%. Another positive marker showed that the number of women who worked in the past year and were paid in cash increased from 21.1% to 24.9%.Shalini Sinha, India country representative of Women in Informal Employment: Globalizing and Organizing (WIEGO), said that the number of women who own a bank account did not necessarily translate into asset creation for women in a patriarchal society. “Access to financial income may improve the bargaining power that women have in the house. However, such shifts usually take place after a long-drawn process,” said Sinha.She added that just one indicator of access to a bank account alone did not mean economic empowerment, and there were a number of other factors at play, which, combined together, indicated economic empowerment. “One should encourage initiatives that seek to link women to banking services because it is a fact that the whole household can prosper if women are earning and saving regularly. However, opening a bank account alone doesn’t mean economic empowerment,” said Sinha.As per the survey, the number of women owning land or a house decreased 34.9% to 22.7%. Jaya Velankar, director, Jagori, a Delhi-based women’s organisation, said that women in India had been denied land traditionally due to the belief that the land will be divided when women marry into another family. “Land ownership in Indian societies is usually vested with fathers and sons. Women are denied property rights since there is a belief that more people will lay claim to the land when a woman is married into another family,” said Velankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/women-have-a-greater-say-in-healthcare-and-household-purchases-survey-101637950547310.html
26-11-2021||Other||Modi, Kejriwal only busy in giving ads, claims Congress||Jalandhar All-India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Pawan Khera on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister alleging that the two leaders only indulged in advertisements (Vigyapanjiv), without work on the ground. “Both Modi and Kejriwal are ‘Vigyapanjiv’ (thriving only on ads) and are only influencing the public through publicity stunts,” Khera said, addressing a press conference here, adding that Kejriwal’s announcement of ₹1,000 per months dole to every Punjab women was simply unworkable. “If he is making such an election promise in Punjab, then why does he not implement it in Delhi first, where he already has his own government,” Khera said, adding, “In Punjab, instead of any political party the main opponents or challenge before the Congress is to counter false claims that Kejriwal is making about his government’s work in Delhi.” “Kejriwal has not added even a single hospital, a single road to government hospitals in Delhi. “He has failed to maintain the huge infrastructure created by the Congress government in its 15-year rule,” he said, alleging that Kejriwal was only indulging in publicity stunts by spending ₹600 crore on advertisement against ₹22 crore that the Congress used to allocate.On Modi, Khera said, “Modi did not repeal the three farm laws, when farmers braved the cruel Delhi cold; as soon as he lost in polls, he revoked the laws. Kejriwal is also busy now in doing politics on stubble burning and pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-kejriwal-only-busy-in-giving-ads-claims-congress-101637950487168.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Survey shows increase in cases of anaemia across India||There has been an increase in anaemia—a condition that results in low concentration of the blood-carrying cell haemoglobin—across age group and gender, according to the recently released data for the complete fifth round of the National Family Heath Survey, prompting the government to take a “hard look” at its Anaemia Mukt Bharat programme, according to a senior government official. “The Anaemia Mukt Bharat programme was launched in 2018 and a large part of the survey was conducted in 2019 itself, hence the full impact of the programme might not have been captured. However, the numbers still shouldn’t have gone up. This indicates that we need to take a hard look at the programme—probably modify or add supplements, change diet packages, and address the core issue of nutrition throughly,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Anaemia Mukt Bharat programme focuses on prophylactic iron folic acid supplementation, identification of anaemic cases, and their referral and treatment, in addition to improving nutrition. Anaemia has increase in children between the ages of 6 and 59 months to 67.1% from 58.6% in the previous round of survey conducted in 2015-16. In women between the ages of 15 and 49 years, it has increased to 57% from 53.1%; in pregnant women it has gone up to 52.2% from 50.4%. The data for the survey was collected in two phases -- between January 4, 2020 and March 2, 2020 (prior to the Covid-19 lockdown), and between November 21, 2020 and January 20, 2021. A total of 9,486 households, 11,159 women, and 1,700 men were surveyed in the Capital. All the comparative figures are from NFHS-4, for which data was collected in 2015-16. Severe anaemia during pregnancy can lead to several complications including pre-term birth. There are two reasons for high prevalence of anaemia in India—one, the cutoff for the level of haemoglobin is high and better suited for Caucasian population and two, the levels are lower when a prick test is conducted. One of the anomalies is likely to be address during the next round of NFHS for which data collection will begin in 2022. “The measured value of haemoglobin is lower when a finger prick test is conducted as opposed to blood drawn from the veins. Now, in NFHS-5 the prick test was conducted but we are planning to measure the haemoglobin level from blood drawn from the vein for the next round of survey to discount at least the measurement bias,” the official said. The official explained that the need for haemoglobin to carry oxygen throughout the body is directly proportional to the muscle mass. The current cutoff for haemoglobin levels is 12gm/decilitre for women and between 11 and 12gm/decilitre for children. A study from the Indian Institute of Population Sciences, Delhi, and St. John’s Medical College, Bengaluru, suggests this is high for Indians and is leading to anaemia being over-diagnosed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/survey-shows-increase-in-cases-of-anaemia-across-india-101637950307160.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Unemployment rate in Uttar Pradesh down to 4%: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that unemployment rate in the state had gone down to 4 per cent from 18. Virtually addressing the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, the chief minister said that five years ago, the unemployment rate was around 18 per cent but now it had gone down to four per cent. He also pointed out that Uttar Pradesh was at the number one position in 44 schemes of the Centre. He said since independence till 2017, there were 12 medical colleges in UP but in the last five years, 33 medical colleges had come up. He also listed the five expressways of the state, as well as the recently inaugurated Purvanchal Expressway. Yogi Adityanath also pointed out that nine airports had come up in the state since 2017 and 11 others were under construction. Before 2017, there were only four operational airports in the state, he said. In the next three to four years, five international airports would be made operational in the state, he said. ‘Govt took care of labourers in pandemic’ Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath highlighted various schemes launched by the state government for labourers despite all odds during the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at a mass marriage event in Ayodhya in which 3915 couples were married, including 138 Muslims, he said, “During the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh was the first state to launch free ration scheme for the needy and poor.” In the first phase of the scheme, 54 lakh workers benefited from it, asserted the CM. Highlighting schemes launched by the state government for workers of the unorganised sector, the CM said that the government had made available ₹2 lakh social security scheme and ₹5 lakh insurance cover to labourers. “Around three crore migrant and resident labourers of Uttar Pradesh are availing these schemes,” said the CM. He also pointed out that the state government had made available houses to 45 lakh families as well as 2.61 crore toilets and public toilets in 59000 gram panchayats across the state. “Before 2017 there was lawlessness in the state. Now, the state is free from riots and corruption,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unemployment-rate-in-uttar-pradesh-down-to-4-yogi-101637950247539.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh alert over new Covid variant||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh health department has sounded an alert about the new variant of Covid ‘B.1.1529’ found in South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana. In an advisory to all chief medical officers in the state, additional chief secretary, medical and health Amit Mohan Prasad has asked them to focus on travellers coming from or transiting through these countries and reaching Uttar Pradesh, as well as their contacts. Such travellers should be taken as those coming from ‘at risk’ countries and their rigorous screening should be done as per the guidelines from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, he said. South Africa has reported six cases of the new variant ‘B.1.1529’ while Hong Kong has reported one case and Botswana three cases till now. The chief medical officers have been advised to take samples of all such travellers for genome sequencing. The district surveillance officers shall do the follow-up with contacts of these travellers and also ensure the genome sequencing. “Genome sequencing is a key tool to check whether a certain variant of Covid is present in the population, as was applied in the past. With quick screening and genome sequencing, spread of the infection can be checked,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “We are already screening all travellers coming to the state from other countries and also states where Covid cases are still being reported in high number. Focus will be increased as per the advisory,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. The health department has written a letter to premier medical institutes, including the PGI and King George’s Medical University, where patients from abroad come for treatment, to compulsorily screen all patients from foreign countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-alert-over-new-covid-variant-101637949768863.html
26-11-2021||Dehradun||‘Might be arrested’: BJP leader moves HC in Khurshid house vandalisation case||DEHRADUN: A local leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party Kundan Singh Chilwal has asked the Uttarakhand high court to stop the police from arresting him in the case relating to vandalism of Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s Nainital house on November 15, people familiar with the matter said.Kundan Singh Chilwal cited a police report that alleged he led the mob that vandalised the house, insisting that he did lead a protest 100metres from Khurshid’s house, left and later returned when he heard about the vandalism, adding that he tried to put out the fire.A single bench of justice Alok Kumar Verma heard the petition on Friday. The hearing will continue on Saturday.Chilwal’s lawyer RS Sammal said they sought a stay on the BJP leader’s arrest since he did not have any role in vandalising Salman Khurshid’s house which was later set afire by a group of miscreants.“In its report, police has stated that Kundan Singh Chilwal was leading the mob that vandalised the house. We have apprised the court that Chilwal, who is a local BJP mandal leader, held a protest nearly 100metres from the house and left the area after the protest. When he came to know about the vandalisation, he returned and tried to put out the fire, which is also evident in the video of the incident,” Sammal said.The incident took place amid controversy over Khurshid’s book “Sunrise Over Ayodhaya: Nationhood In Our Times”. In a chapter titled ‘The Saffron Sky’ in the book, Khurshid has written, “Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.”A protest outside Khurshid’s house against the book on November 15 turned violent when a group of people threw stones, fired shots at the house and set it afire.Bhowali police told the high court that they have arrested four people in the case but underlined that Chilwal was leading the protest, Sammal said.Ravindra Singh Bisht, counsel of Sunder Ram, caretaker of Salman Khurshid’s house and one of the respondents in the case said that state government sought a day’s time to file an affidavit. “The state government will submit its affidavit on Saturday (November 27) when the court will hear the matter”, he said. PS Mehra, the officer in charge of the Bhowali police station, said the probe was based on the caretaker’s complaint in which only one person was named.“During the investigation, police has been trying to identify other people involved in the protest. Based on a video clip, four people were arrested on November 18. Chilwal was also spotted in the video and he said that he led the protest”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/might-be-arrested-bjp-leader-moves-hc-in-khurshid-house-vandalisation-case-101637949767165.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||MVA turns 2: Survival of the politically fittest||On Sunday, November 28, a most unlikely of political coalitions – the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – completes two years in office. And quite like any unlikely political coalition, its single biggest achievement could well be its survival, with the uncertainty of the next three years not going to make the journey to the 2024 election any simpler. In that sense, its real test begins now. Of the 24 months, 20 were spent battling the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, there were natural calamities such as cylones and floods, action by central agencies such as Enforcement Directorate (ED), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against MVA leaders, and the frequent friction with Delhi, where the BJP has absolute majority in the Lok Sabha. The latter may have just begun. Unending uncertainty On November 28, 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in as chief minister to head a three-party coalition formed unexpectedly after the BJP and Sena broke their 35-year-old alliance over differences pertaining to sharing of the chief minister’s post. The Sena then joined hands with NCP and Congress to form the MVA and, later, the government once a power-sharing ratio and common minimum programme was agreed upon. The common agenda the three parties shared: keep BJP out. NCP chief and former union minister Sharad Pawar played a key role in making this happen, and in the process even the Sena played the smaller partner, even if its chief was invited to lead the government. There have been accusations that the other parties – specifically the chief minister -- have been a “puppet in the hands of Pawar.” However, Thackeray seems to have managed to create his own identity. A Senior Shiv Sena leader said, “The BJP attacks to destabilise the government have been relentless. The financial blockade by the Centre, the continuous scrutiny of our leaders using central agencies, all of this has kept the MVA on tenterhooks.” Besides, the BJP tried to corner the coalition government over the issues such as actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Antilia explosives scare, Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder, allegations by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against then home minister Anil Deshmukh, and raids and notices by the central agencies. “This created the impression that Thackeray government will crumble anytime,” the Sena leader said, “but it has somehow survived.” Facing challenges Barely three months into its tenure, the MVA government already faced its biggest challenge – a rampaging Covid-19 pandemic that hit Maharashtra with unprecedented ferocity both in the first wave in April to June, and then in the second wave in 2021. It overwhelmed the health infrastructure, crippled state finances and brought development work to a sudden halt. In all of this, the revenue deficit mounted to more than ₹79,000 crore in FY 2020-21. An IAS officer closely associated with the Covid-19 fight said, “Bed shortage in the first wave hit us hard, and the shortfall in oxygen supply in the second was challenging, too. But we increased the number of beds from 80,000 to more than half a million. We managed to get oxygen from other states and saved lives. Maharashtra accounts for 20% of the cases and a third of all of the deaths in the country, leading to stinging criticism from the opposition. But leaders close to Thackeray said that he demanded transparency and accountability in data. “In some states, data was manipulated to hide the severity of the spread,” a Sena leader close to the Thackeray family said. “But the CM never allowed his officers to do that.” The transparency was ultimately praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some independent agencies assessing the state’s Covid management. Maharashtra also witnessed two major cyclones Nisarg and Taukte, in addition to seasonal and unseasonal downpours leading to flooding, and the consequent displacement of hundreds of thousands in western Maharashtra. The state had to allocate more than ₹30,000 crore as relief, hurting the exchequer further. BJP leader and finance minister in the Fadnavis government Sudhir Mungatiwar said the Thackeray government has failed on all fronts. “The government kept cursing the Centre for no reason,” he said. “This won’t last long. Nobody, be it worker, farmer, industrialist or the common man, is happy with the government. They have realised the government cares only for the liquor industry. In two years, they have taken five decisions to benefit the liquor industry.” Political commentator Hemant Desai said the Thackeray government could not achieve much in two years. “The BJP-led Fadnavis had announced projects such as the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway, Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyaan, both of which the public could relate to, but the MVA has no signature project. Shiv Sena lacks the vision needed to lead a state like Maharashtra, nor does it have the experience. The government has been spending most of its precious time in fighting a perception battle,” he opined. However, Public Works Department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan said, “We have performed well, considering the challenges of the last two years. Centre has adopted a non-cooperation mode, by creating a financial impasse by not releasing the rightful GST dues.” He added, “BJP leaders in Maharashtra left no stone unturned to destablise our government. In the garb of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the Palghar lynching case, they hatched a conspiracy to defame us. People have now realised that BJP’s hunger for power, and our success in recent polls is a good sign.” The way aheadThe removal of restrictions at the fag end of the second wave meant that the state’s economy could recover a bit, but with the rider that both the opposition and the voting public will put the rest of the tenure under the scanner. A retired IAS officer and a former state bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named for this story, said, “The Samruddhi Expressway, the Metro rail network, the Mumbai Trans Harbour Line, and the Coastal Road were rolled out by the previous government. The Thackeray government has not been able to sustain the pace. In fact, in two cases – the Metro car shed and the Samruddhi expressway first phase deadline – there has been a significant delay.” To top this, Thackeray and his ministers have to resolve the contentious issue of reservation for Marathas and OBCs. A section of the Maratha and OBC communities feel the MVA has failed to safeguard their interests. Observers believe that infighting among the three ruling parties is expected to resurface during the local body elections scheduled to be held over the next six months. The Congress has announced it will go solo, while interests of Shiv Sena and NCP are likely to clash in local bodies in Pune, Navi Mumbai, Nashik though they are keen on joining hands. “The three parties may have to part ways in Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in 2024,” a senior Congress leader said. “If they fight collectively, their success rate remains high, but it shrinks the party base. Chavan added, “There could be differences between the ruling parties as we were joining hands with Shiv Sena for the first time. We might have committed a few mistakes in two years, but corrective measures too were taken. We never were adamant or never acted vindictive against dissident voices.” Mungantiwar said the three parties had nothing to be afraid of if they had not done anything wrong. “Shouldn’t the Central agencies not take action? If a couple of ministers out of 43 are caught, why should the rest worry? Instead of crying foul, the government should keep working for the welfare of the people every moment they get in the power,” he said. Desai said the Thackeray government can no longer hold the central government responsible for its inefficiencies or hold the Covid-19 responsible for non-performance. “The remaining three years are going to be really challenging for them. They cannot point at the Centre now for non-cooperation. The three parties will have to have better planning and strategies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-turns-2-survival-of-the-politically-fittest-101637949587113.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||MVA turns two: For Pawar, the heat is on||On November 2 this year, Enforcement Directorate, the country’s premier financial investigations agency, arrested Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over money-laundering charges. This was unprecedented. No home minister in the state has ever been arrested, on such serious charges. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray dated March 20, 2021, senior IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh forced a police officer named Sachin Vaze – then the chief of the crime intelligence unit – to “accumulate ₹100 crore a month”. Singh wrote, “For achieving the aforesaid target, the Hon’ble Home Minister told Shri Vaze that there are about 1,750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of Rs. 2-3 lakhs each was collected from each of them, a monthly collection of Rs. 40-50 crores was achievable.” Singh made these allegations days after being shunted out as the city’s top cop over his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare case and in the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. In the portfolio sharing agreement between the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the home department was allocated to NCP. But, Deshmukh is not the lone minister or NCP leader in the central agencies’ radar. Three others – deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif and former revenue minister Eknath Khadse – have been scrutinised or questioned. The Income Tax (I-T) department has also conducted raids at establishments linked with Ajit Pawar and his three sisters. It was Sharad Pawar who cobbled together a three-party coalition by bringing together Congress and Shiv Sena in an alliance, an impossible task till 2019. Political observers said “BJP is targeting NCP” because it thinks Sena can be its future ally. Going after Pawar and his party, observers point out, could make the BJP feel that the 81-year-old Maharashtra veteran, who wants to play a role in putting forth a nationwide alternative to the BJP, may be discouraged. Pawar, however, has started retaliating by hitting back at the Narendra Modi-led BJP government in Delhi. On November 18, Pawar said in a rally in Nagpur, “You (BJP) are spreading propaganda against a person (Anil Deshmukh). He came to meet me and said that the complaint has been made by the police commissioner. Until the probe is completed, he doesn’t want to stay in this position and he is stepping down as home minister. We will not keep quiet. You (BJP) have sent him (Anil Deshmukh) behind the bars and will be made to pay the price of every day and every hour.” Political analyst Abhay Deshpande said both the NCP and Shiv Sena are under attack as BJP needs either of them to form a government in Maharashtra. “Both NCP and Shiv Sena are under attack as Pratap Sarnaik , MP from Yavatmal-Washim Lok Sabha constituency Bhavana Gawali, former MP Anandrao Adsul and state transport minister Anil Parab also face a probe by central agencies,” Deshpande said. “Both are the parties that can join hands with the BJP but are not doing so and thus are being targeted. Central agencies are more active in Maharashtra than other states.” He said Pawar’s aggression against BJP also strengthens his purpose of playing a larger role in national politics by uniting opposition parties against the BJP. “The opposition parties are looking to unite and even though he is not being accepted as their leader, he is working as a convenor. Earlier, Congress was the main party and other parties used to play second fiddle. No longer. Today’s Congress is weak and not in a position to bring the parties together. Pawar has a major role to play in national politics in the current scenario.” Apart from investigating Deshmukh, on July 1, the ED attached the Jarandeshwar Cooperative Sugar Mill in Satara, a factory allegedly linked with Ajit Pawar’s relatives on the grounds that it was auctioned at an undervalued price by Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank when the latter was one of its directors. Three months later, income tax department sleuths carried out raids and searches at the premises of multiple sugar mills and real estate groups, including those linked to Ajit Pawar, his three sisters and his son Parth on October 7. NCP leader Eknath Khadse, too, faces an ED probe in an alleged money laundering case tied to a land deal in Bhosari in Pune. ED started investigating Khadse just two months after he quit the BJP in October 2020. Once a BJP heavyweight, Khadse is under scrutiny for allegations of graft and conflict of interest in the land deal. In September, former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya approached the Income Tax department and ED for an alleged fraud of ₹127 crore. He claimed that Mushrif’s family opened accounts in banks in the name of shell companies that do not exist. Later that month, he accused Mushrif of committing fraud worth ₹100 crore involving the Appasaheb Gadhinglaj Cooperative Sugar Mill. Political analyst Hemant Desai said the BJP is looking to break either NCP or Ajit Pawar by relentlessly attacking them. “They (BJP) started their attacks against Shiv Sena by targeting (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik and (the then forest minister) Sanjay Rathod,” he said. “But after Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray dismissed any possibility of an alliance with BJP despite being pressured by Sena leaders, they (BJP) shifted the attack to NCP. The case of Jarandeshwar sugar mill is a good example because it came to light before state assembly elections in 2019, but it was suddenly brought back to target Ajit Pawar.” Desai said the BJP is succeeded in pressuring Ajit Pawar, who has been skipping political functions for the past fortnight or more. “State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil recently said that the change will come in the new year. It may be that the party is looking for a repeat of 2019 when Ajit Pawar along with a splinter group of NCP MLAs formed a government with BJP,” he said. “He (Sharad Pawar) never made such strong statements in the past. Praful Patel also said that they will again make Anil Deshmukh the home minister of the state. It indicates that the continuous attack has compelled senior Pawar to go all out against BJP.” NCP’s national spokesperson Nawab Malik said the BJP thinks it can break NCP leaders by targeting them through central agencies just like it tried to do in West Bengal ahead of the state assembly polls, but added that “it will not work in Maharashtra.” Malik said, “By misusing central agencies, they were under the impression that they would force our leaders to jump ship. They have used this strategy in West Bengal and many other states as well, but NCP has decided to fight head on and will not give up.” In a rally in Mahabaleshwar on November 24, Pawar said, “The same is happening here in Maharashtra but there is no need to worry about it. Let them do all the probes; they will not get anything. However, they have set an example on how to misuse power.” In response, BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar said NCP is misleading people and that if their leaders are innocent and are being targeted by the central agencies why is no one moving court. “Their allegation is an admission of their crime as they are not saying that their leaders are innocent,” he said. “Where there is a crime, there has to be an investigation and that is the reason NCP leaders are facing a probe. Even though they are making such allegations, none of the leaders went to court against any of the central agencies if they are really innocent. It means they are crying crocodile tears.” Controversy is not new to the Pawars or the NCP. In 2012, Ajit Pawar was embroiled in a ₹70,000-crore irrigation contracts scam. Following the allegations, Ajit Pawar, who was then deputy CM, resigned from the state cabinet. He was re-inducted in December the same year. Another NCP leader, Chhagan Bhujbal, was made deputy chief minister after the party formed a government with Congress in 1999. However, he had to quit the position in 2003 after his name was embroiled in a controversy over fake stamp papers involving Abdul Karim Telgi. He too made a comeback as the Congress-NCP combination returned to power in 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-turns-two-for-pawar-the-heat-is-on-101637949527187.html
26-11-2021||Other||Chaudhary’s hand-in-glove remark baseless, says ex-CM Amarinder||Chandigarh Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday lashed out at Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary over his baseless accusations against the former being “hand-in-glove” with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), when he was the chief minister.Capt Amarinder said that although he owed no explanation to an “out-of-job legislator” who has been sacked as a minister in Rajasthan, but he still wanted to set the record straight. “Had I had any understanding with the Prime Minister or the BJP when I was the chief minister, I would not have supported the farmers’ agitation and demanded repealing of the agriculture laws and passed a law in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against these,” he said. Amarinder claimed it was for the first time that a party in-charge had made the state his permanent abode. “I have worked with 14 party in-charges like Pranab Mukherjee, Mohsina Kidwai, Janardhan Dwivedi to name a few, and they would rarely interfere, leave aside visiting or settling down in Punjab,” he recalled. He added that a party in-charge was not supposed to settle down in the state that he has been assigned to, but facilitate interaction and feedback to the high command. “Harish Chaudhary is enjoying chief ministerial power and privileges in Punjab, turning chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi into a rubber stamp by dictating terms to him,” he claimed. The former CM accused Chaudhary of even attending cabinet and other meetings of officers, which was “illegal and unconstitutional”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chaudharys-hand-in-glove-remark-baseless-says-ex-cm-amarinder-101637949407224.html
26-11-2021||Other||Punjab vigilance report indicts Ireo promoters of causing ₹100 cr loss to exchequer||Mohali The Punjab vigilance bureau has recommended the registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against promoters of Ireo Waterfront (now AIPL, Dreamcity) Mega Housing Project in Ludhiana and the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officers concerned for causing a loss of ₹100 crore to the government exchequer. Of around 1,300 allottees in the project, situated in Dakha village on the Ferozepur road in Ludhiana, 250-odd allottees are awaiting possession for over 10 years. Now, the vigilance has sought permission from the government to register a case. On November 17, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested Lalit Goyal, real estate tycoon and managing director of IREO group, in connection with an alleged money-laundering ( ₹2,600 crore) probe. Goyal was taken into custody under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Chandigarh. PROJECT WAS APPROVED IN 2005In 2005, the Punjab industries department had approved the 500-acre project under Industrial Policy 2003. Under terms and conditions with the GLADA, the builder was to pay the due amount under the heads of external development charges (EDC), licence fee, and Social Infrastructure fund (SIF), after phase wise completion of the project. “The builder, however, paid only the first instalment, with no payment made for the rest of the phases, causing a loss of nearly ₹100 crore to the government exchequer. GLADA officials, too, did not pursue the matter, giving a long rope to the private developer,” the vigilance report notes, adding that GLADA did not secure its dues by way of hypothecation of plots as mandated in the policy framed by the department of housing and urban development. The report notes, “With the builder not completing the project, even three years after approval, the allottees lodged a complaint regarding incomplete development works and the collusion of GLADA staff in issuing completion certificate for 64-acre pocket in 2017, even as work remains pending even today.”On April 30, 2021, the Punjab department of housing and urban department cancelled the Partial Completion Certificate issued to the 64-acre pocket. In 2018, the state government issued directions to the builder to stop work and further selling of plots, but the builders continued doing so, in complete violation of government orders.“Now, the company has handed over the project to a company, AIPL, without paying dues to the government,” the vigilance report adds. One of the aggrieved home buyers Manmohan Jain said, “I booked 10 adjoining plots for ₹11.5 crore, of which 10.73 crore have been paid to the builder. To date, we have not been offered possession of developed plots.” GLADA chief administrator Rishipal Singh said, “I have joined only recently, but we have started an inquiry. After the inquiry report, action will be taken as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-vigilance-report-indicts-ireo-promoters-of-causing-rs-100-cr-loss-to-exchequer-101637948868375.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||ED searches premises linked to Shiv Sena leader in Aurangabad||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches at various premises in Aurangabad, including one linked to Shiv Sena leader Arjun Khotkar, in connection with the agency’s probe in the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam. Khotkar was an MLA from Jalna and has also served as a minister in the Maharashtra government between 2016 and 2019. According to sources in the central agency, its officials had carried out searches at different locations, including in Aurangabad on November 12. Friday’s searches were in continuation of the previous action. The anti-money laundering agency’s action was in connection with the purchase of a sugar mill, sources said.The central agency is investigating the financial deal pertaining to the sugar mill and checked various papers linked to the deal. Earlier in July, the ED had attached properties worth ₹65.75 crore belonging to Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana (SSK), situated at Chimangaon in Satara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-searches-premises-linked-to-shiv-sena-leader-in-aurangabad-101637948867107.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||We will beat anti- incumbency, change in mood already visible: Punjab dy CM OP Soni||Chandigarh: A prominent Hindu face in Punjab Congress, Om Parkash Soni, 64, was among the major gainers of the change of guard in Punjab two months ago. The five-time MLA and a minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet was elevated as one of two deputy chief ministers and given the important health portfolio. As the BJP prepares to contest all the 117 assembly seats and both the AAP and SAD eye the urban voters, the Congress faces the challenge of retaining its sway on this section which had propelled it to a spectacular win in 2017. On Friday, HT spoke to Soni about the incessant internal bickering in the state Congress, Capt’s exit and the impact of leadership change. Edited excerpts: Q: Why the ruling Congress continues to be chaotic even after Amarinder’s exit? Our government is functioning very well. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is working day and night. We all are with him. Both the party organisation and the government should work together. The government is fulfilling the promises at breakneck speed as per the directions of the party high command. Q: But there seems to be no end to bickering – first it was Sidhu-versus-Capt and now Sidhu-versus-Channi. Isn’t this hurting the party? Sidhu is raising the issue of drug report, but this matter is in the court and no one can interfere in it. The government also wants this report to be made public at the earliest. What can the government do in the legal process? Q: Will the change of CM help the party beat the anti-incumbency of four-and-a-half years? We will surely beat it. Look at the effort being put in by Channi Ji and his entire team and the decisions taken by the government. The elections are just two months away and the CM, party and the high command are clear that we need to first fulfil all promises made in 2017 before going to the people for a mandate. The change in mood is already visible. I was in Dhuri and Sangrur on Thursday for a meeting with traders and industrialists and they were happy with the decision taken by the government. Q: How big a challenge will it be for Congress to woo the Hindu voters? They are the key to Congress’ success in Punjab. Whenever we win 30 urban seats, we get the majority. There is no such thing that Hindus are silent or not satisfied. We have addressed the pending VAT cases and slashed power rates. In health sector, we have expanded the health insurance scheme to benefit 15 lakh additional families. Punjab is the first state to cover all its 61 lakh families under this scheme. We will bag more urban seats in 2022. Q: The BJP plans to contest all 117 seats and both AAP and SAD are also going all out to woo the Hindus. Who will be the Congress’ main rival in urban areas? This time, neither the BJP nor SAD will make any impact in urban area because they don’t have an alliance any longer. The AAP is just making announcements whereas we are taking decisions and implementing welfare measures for the poor, farmers, women, traders and others. They are in disarray and their MLAs are quitting to join the Congress. Q: How will Capt Amarinder Singh’s move to float his own party and contest the polls as BJP’s ally impact the Congress? I hold him in high esteem. Capt saab should have accepted the high command’s decision. His new party will not make any difference to the Congress. Had he continued with the party, the situation would have been even better. There was no need for him to react the way he did. Q: AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal is “guaranteeing” total transformation in health sector in Punjab. What do you have to say? He keeps talking about his “Delhi model”, but Punjab is far better placed than Delhi in the health sector. They (AAP) make a lot of claims and give guarantees, but just compare the facilities and manpower to know where they stand. We have more doctors and clinics than them in proportion to population. If things were so good in Delhi, people from national capital would not have rushed to Punjab for beds and treatment during the second wave of Covid-19. Q: The Centre has pointed out Punjab for dip in Covid testing rate. What is being done to ensure sufficient testing? We are conducting 20,000 tests daily which are lower than 40-45,000 tests that were being done daily during the second Covid wave. There are very few cases coming now. The positivity rate has also dropped sharply. Another reason for the dip in testing rate was dengue outbreak. Our health teams got busy with it. Q: As compared to other states, the vaccine coverage in Punjab is low with only 32% of eligible population receiving both shots? Over 2.3 crore vaccine doses, including 1.6 crore first shots and 70 lakh second shots, have been administered so far. As fresh infections have dipped, people feel there is no coronavirus and, therefore, no necessity to get vaccinated. And, we are making continuous efforts to motivate people to get vaccinated. Q: You have worked with Capt Amarinder and Channi. What difference do you see in their working and leadership styles? Channi is working harder, and is far more accessible. He is holding cabinet meetings in person and more frequently and decision-making has accelerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-will-beat-anti-incumbency-change-in-mood-already-visible-punjab-dy-cm-op-soni-101637948686959.html
26-11-2021||Other||SAD to protest outside CM Channi’s house on Saturday; to start ‘jail bharo’ stir||Chandigarh The core committee of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday announced that it will stage a protest outside Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house on Saturday. The committee that party leaders would also court arrest against the alleged plan of the state government to arrest at the district level against ex-minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a fake drugs case. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal chaired the meeting. “Tomorrow’s arrest will be followed by a ‘jail bharo’ andolan at the district level,” Sukhbir told reporters at the party headquarters. He added that party is not afraid of cases, but would not tolerate a case on fake grounds. “We have concrete information that the CM has ordered the state DGP to register a false case against Majithia at a meeting which deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the charge of home department, was also present,” Sukhbir alleged, adding that Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was pressuring the government to book Majithia, and had even threatened to go on fast unto death. He cautioned officers and politicians behind this conspiracy to be ready to face the music, if the SAD-BSP government comes to power after 2022 state polls. Two weeks ago, Sukhbir had alleged that the Channi government was pressuring the DGP to implicate the Badal family in sacrilege cases. “On coming to power we would set up a commission to probe all false cases,” said Sukhbir, who is also the Ferozepur MP, reiterating that all drug cases be probed under the direct supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. He added that Channi and Sidhu are indulging in a game of one-upmanship for their personal, politicsl vendetta against Akali leaders so as to divert attention from their government’s failure. “We see it as a challenge to the SAD and we accept it,” Sukhbir dared Channi adding that there was no case against Majithia, adding that Arvind Kejriwal, who had accused him in the past, had to save himself from going to jail by tendering apology. The SAD president also hailed the victory of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) with the farm laws being repealed and completion of one year of peaceful protest. “For the repeal of these farm laws, we quit from the union cabinet and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had returned the Padma Bhushan in protest,” he added.Senior core committee members who were present were Balwinder Singh Bhunder; SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur; Prem Singh Chandumajra; Maheshinder Singh Grewal; Daljit Singh Cheema; Gulzar Singh Ranike; Jagmeet Singh Brar; Janmeja Singh Sekhon; Hira Singh Gabria; Sikander Singh Maluka; Surjit Singh Rakhra; Baldev Mann; Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Harmeet Singh Kalka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-to-protest-outside-cm-channi-s-house-on-saturday-to-start-jail-bharo-stir-101637948146858.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||For the first time, BMC to appoint private agency to maintain heritage structures||For the first time, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to hand over the maintenance of heritage structures in the city to a private agency. Earlier, the civic body would appoint private agencies to restore heritage structures but this is the first time that the private agency will also be responsible for their upkeep and security. The structures to be maintained include various pyaus, fountains and statues made of bronze and marble, which have been identified as heritage structures of different grades by the BMC heritage department. Some of the 27 structures the BMC has chosen are - Flora Fountain, Fitzgerald Fountain, and the statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Swami Vivekananda at Gateway of India. In a bid to preserve their heritage value, the BMC restored some of these structures, in recent years, including the 154-year-old Fitzgerald Fountain. A structure gets a heritage tag not only for its age but also based on its cultural and historical relevance as well as its location. Senior officials of BMC’s heritage cell said that so far, no contract was awarded to agencies specifically for maintaining heritage structures. “Earlier we used to award contracts only for restoration work, but henceforth all the new contracts will have the clause for maintenance as well,” an official said. The cost of the contract is ₹1.03 crore and it will be awarded to an agency for a period of three years. The civic official also specified that in order to be eligible for the contract, the agency should have an aesthetic sense, understand the cultural importance of these structures and must have prior experience in maintaining historical properties. Some of the clauses in the tender would include cleaning the structures, removing algae from the fountains and filtering the water, polishing the coating of statues and carrying out regular scientific inspections. “All these structures are over 100 years old and most of them are located in areas that have high tourist footfall. If regular maintenance is not done, then these structures will again lose their charm and all the resources spent on restoring them would go in vain,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The BMC is in the process of restoring four century-old pyaus inside the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan (Byculla Zoo). The G/North ward office has also taken up the task of renovating existing pyaus at Shivaji Park, Dadar. The officials of the heritage cell said that the pyaus in Dadar will be maintained by G/N office while the pyaus at Byculla zoo will be maintained by the agency that is restoring it.The proposal of issuing work order was tabled for final approval at the civic standing committee earlier on November 24. However due to the ongoing code of conduct imposed due to the MLC elections the committee got adjourned and normal operation of the committee is expected to resume after December 14. “A day after the proposal is cleared by the standing committee, the work order will be issued by us,” said the official.Conservation architect Vikas Dilawari, who is known for restoring various heritage buildings and structures including the Flora Fountain, Wellington Fountain and Mulji Jetha Fountain said that it’s important to appoint experts for the maintenance of these heritage structures. “The advantage of appointing consultants for maintaining these structures is that they have a knowledge on how to do the job perfectly. If those who are carrying out the maintenance are not properly trained or sensitized, then they can damage the objects during the process. The BMC has taken the right step in appointing consultants because this will keep the quality of structure from deteriorating in the long run.”Box:Some of the structures Fitzgerald Fountain (Marine Lines) Flora Fountain (Colaba)Bandstand (Cooperage Garden)Devidas Purushottam Kothari Pyau (Balchand Heerachand Marg)Rajiv Gandhi Statue (Cooperage Garden)Hutatma SmarakLal Bahadur Shastri statue (SP Mukherjee Chowk)Ferozeshah Mehta’s statue (BMC HQ)Baba Saheb Ambedkar’s statue (Madame Cama Marg) Govind Ranade statue (Veer Nariman Road) Dinshaw Maneckji Petit statue (DN Road)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-the-first-time-bmc-to-appoint-private-agency-to-maintain-heritage-structures-101637948027018.html
26-11-2021||Pune||3 held, 2 minors detained for petrol bomb attack in Pimple Saudagar||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested three persons and detained two juveniles in connection with ‘petrol bombs’ thrown at the office of Shankar Jagtap, brother of BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap, on Thursday. The motorcycle-borne accused had thrown rags and bottles filled with kerosene at the office in Pimple Saudagar. Nobody was injured in the incident. According to inspector Sunil Tambe, incharge of Sangvi police station, all the accused are aged between 17 to 23 years. The accused have been remanded to police custody till November 30. The arrested, identified as Pradyumna Bhosle (23), Vikram Jawalkar (20) and Tanmay Madne (19), and have been booked under the Indian Penal Code Section 308 ( attempt to commit culpable homicide) , and other sections of the IPC and Explosives Act. According to investigators, Bhosale was angry after Jagtap refused to participate in his birthday celebrations. Jagtap had ignored him at the time and hence, Bhosale along with two others planned to attack the office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-held-2-minors-detained-for-petrol-bomb-attack-in-pimple-saudagar-101637947966925.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Man, woman found dead in Dighi lodge room||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday, discovered the bodies of a man and a woman at a lodge in Dighi. Both the corpses were naked. Police suspect that the man killed his girlfriend and then died by suicide. According to the Pimpri-Chinchwad police the deceased man has been identified as Prakash Thosar (30). The woman who has not been identified yet would come to the lodge regularly with Thosar. “The two used to stay overnight and leave in the morning. The duo came to the lodge on Thursday night . They were to check out on Friday morning, but when they did not open the room door the police were informed,” a police statement said. On opening the room, both were found dead. A case of accidental death due to suicide has been lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-woman-found-dead-in-dighi-lodge-room-101637947786868.html
26-11-2021||Pune||India’s Organ Donation Day: 1,500 in Pune region awaiting kidney transplant||PUNE: On the occasion of Indian Organ Donation Day on Saturday, November 27, the Pune region transplant coordination committee has urged citizens to voluntarily come forward and register for organ donation. While Pune has won the award for the highest number of organ donations in the state for two consecutive years namely, 2020 and 2021, and 1,500 persons and over 54 persons in the Pune region are presently in line to receive kidney, and heart transplants, respectively, the organ donation percentage is still scarce in the country and even in a metro like Pune according to the Pune zonal transplant coordination committee.Dr Aarti Gokhale, coordinator for the Pune zonal transplant coordination committee, said, “Pune has stood at the top position for two consecutive years. In 2020, the Pune zonal transplant coordination committee carried out 41 donations, which was the maximum for last year despite the pandemic and the lockdown in place. This year till date, we have carried out 41 donations. Last year, Maharashtra saw 74 donors and this year, the number has gone up to 83 till now, because of which the state has won the best SOTTO state. Pune was also one of the first to introduce a QR code system which makes it very easy for participants to register themselves for organ donation. This has accelerated the process however we still see very few responses from people who hesitate for various reasons. The real heroes that help push donation numbers are doctors, hospital staff, ambulance drivers, lab technicians, zonal transplant coordination committee staff, NGOs that help coordinate, and of course the family members of the donors without whom this would never be possible.”Dr Sujata Patwardhan, director, ROTTO-SOTTO (Regional cum State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, Mumbai, said, “It gives us immense pleasure to inform you that Maharashtra has won the best SOTTO/state and best ROTTO/region award. ROTTO-SOTTO, west and Maharashtra have been established by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India, at KEM hospital, Parel, Mumbai, since 2017. ROTTO-SOTTO, Mumbai works under the aegis of NOTTO and is responsible for the monitoring and surveillance of organ transplant activities in Maharashtra and other states in the western region such as Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and the union territories of Diu and Daman. It also maintains transplant registries and conducts promotional activities for spreading awareness regarding organ donation.”In view of the rising demand for dialysis in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will also start a dedicated unit for dialysis at the Meenatai Thackeray civic hospital since it is a regular treatment which is also rather expensive. Diabetes and blood pressure are also found to eventually impact the kidneys. As of now, around 1,500 persons are waiting for a kidney transplant. The demand for other organs is also alarming as 575 patients are presently awaiting liver transplants, 54 are awaiting heart transplants and 55 multi-visceral transplants. A multi-visceral transplant is a combined transplant, which may include kidney plus pancreas, kidney plus liver, heart plus lungs and small bowel, with pancreas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indias-organ-donation-day-1-500-in-pune-region-awaiting-kidney-transplant-101637947546954.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 231 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths on Friday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 231 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours on Friday. Three Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported from Pune rural. One death was reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and two deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 522,913 Covid cases and 9,216 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 269,735 cases so far and a total of 3,510 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 367,613 cases so far and 6,971 deaths due to covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,160,261 Covid cases. Of this, 1,138,137 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,047 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 2,077 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 665 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 6,480,061. The recovery rate in the state is 97.7%.Across Maharashtra, 852 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 34 deaths were reported The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 78,122 people are in home quarantine and 1,052 people are in institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-231-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-on-friday-101637947126839.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Malik claims two people observing his house, shares pictures on Twitter||Mumbai Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Friday claimed that two unidentified people were doing recce on his residence and school for the past few days. He also asked people to share details of the duo by sharing their pictures from his Twitter handle. In one of the posts, he also shared a picture of the car along with the number plate.“I will file a complaint with the police about the two who were found clicking pictures outside my house. They tried to run away after a few workers tried to approach them. They, however, managed to get their pictures, which I have shared on my Twitter handle,” Malik told HT.“These are the people doing recce of my house and school for a few days. Share the details if someone is aware of their identity. I want to tell these people who can be seen in pictures to come to me and I am ready to share whatever details they want,” Malik said in his tweet.In one of the pictures shared by Malik, the registration number on the vehicle is mentioned as MH47-AG466. In another picture, a person can also be seen sitting with a professional camera.Malik has been making serious allegations against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for the past month. Last month, his office received a threat call after which the state government upgraded his security to Y+ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malik-claims-two-people-observing-his-house-shares-pictures-on-twitter-101637946946961.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s sex ratio at birth drops to 873 in NFHS survey||PUNE Despite being called Oxford of the east and a metro city, Pune district’s sex ratio has been dwindling as per the data compiled under National Family Health Survey (NFHS).As per the data, the sex ratio of the kids under age six in the past five years for Pune district has dropped from 924 in 2015-16 to 918 in 2019-20. Also, the sex ratio at birth has dropped from 927 (females per 1,000 males) in 2015-16 to 873 in 2019-20.The state average sex ratio has gotten better and moved from 952 to 966 girls for every 1000 males, while the sex ratio at birth has gone down from 924 to 913 in last five years.The NFHS report states that in urban areas the average sex ratio stands at 954 while for rural it is about 977 in 2019-20 and similarly in case of at birth sex ratio rural areas with 878 ratio fare much better than urban areas with 941.Ashwini Kamble, women and child development officer, said, “There could be multiple reasons as to why the generation seems to be dwindling. It is not just happening in poor families but also influential families.”“We do conduct multiple awareness programmes to spread the word that girls and boys are equal. We also undertake strict action in case anyone is found to violate the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994. We even conduct surprise raids whenever we get such information wherein an illegal abortion or illegal adoption process is in place,” she said.The NFHS data and comparison is based on sample size for each district and state, in Pune, information was gathered from 786 households, 832 women, and 140 men.The fieldwork for Maharashtra was conducted from June 19, 2019, to December 30, 2019, by the Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-sex-ratio-at-birth-drops-to-873-in-nfhs-survey-101637946826951.html
26-11-2021||Pune||RTE admission in Pune delayed, to be completed in December||PUNE With schools scheduled to restart from December 1, admissions under Right To Education (RTE) have not been completed. The delay has made matters worse for parents and children seeking admissions in RTE schools.Dinkar Temkar, incharge of RTE admission in Maharashtra, said that Pune is one of the few districts in which the admission process has not been completed.“So far 8,912 provisional admissions have been done in the district and 10,861 are confirmed admissions. The education department and Zilla Parishad officials are expected to finish the admission process soon,” he said.According to officials from the education department, two waiting rounds are remaining for the Pune district and it will be completed in December.For the academic year 2020-2021 the process was delayed till January 2021. Due to this, many students have missed out on their studies.Education activist Mukund Kirdat said, “The delay happens every year and it is mostly due to the non-cooperation by the education department staff. This year due to Covid-19, the whole process is online and it has left parents confused. Many of these parents are uneducated and due to the online process, they do not know whom to approach if there is a problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rte-admission-in-pune-delayed-to-be-completed-in-december-101637946586876.html
26-11-2021||Indore||Minto Hall set to become Kushabhau Thakre Hall: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that the name of Minto Hall, the Old Vidhan Sabha here, would be changed to Kushabhau Thakre Hall after the former BJP national president and enduring stalwart of the saffron party in MP. Addressing the state BJP's executive meet here, the CM, speaking in Hindi, said the hall was built with the soil and water of this place, as well as the sweat and toil of people from here, but still carried the name of Minto. "Thakre is the person who created many stalwarts in the BJP, including former chief ministers Sunderlal Patwa, Kailash Joshi and Virendra Kumar Saklecha as well as Vikram Verma, Faggan Singh Kulaste and Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Minto Hall will be named after Kushabhau Thakre," he said amid applause from BJP members.Speaking on other issues, he said the state government's 'Laadli Laxmi' scheme, which seeks to provide a host of benefits to the girl child, had begun to show results as the sex ratio in MP had improved from 912 females for every 1,000 males to 956 for every 1000 as per the national health survey report. Hitting out at the Congress for claiming the BJP will change the Constitution, Chouhan said, in fact, it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had started the tradition of celebrating November 26 as 'Constitution Day'. The Chouhan government had earlier changed the name of Habibganj station to Rani Kamalapati railway station and renamed Pataalpani railway station near Indore after tribal hero Tantya Bheel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/minto-hall-set-to-become-kushabhau-thakre-hall-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101637945997192.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Pune schools start prep to reopen; student safety top priority||PUNE Many private and public schools in the city are now preparing to reopen from December 1. All safety measures are being taken by the schools to welcome students.After a gap of nearly two years, all students, including primary school children, will be going back to physical classes in schools. The decision was taken at a state cabinet meeting on Thursday.Since October 2021, schools in urban areas were open for students from Class 8 to 12, and from Class 5 to 12 in rural areas.Various stakeholders expressed mixed reactions to the reopening of schools for the primary section.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association, said that the decision is welcome and schools are already preparing to reopen.“Schools are already prepared with the initial safety measures. They are sanitising the premises and ensuring that social distancing is followed in classes. Teachers and school management are equally excited about having students from Class 1 on the premises. As fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff are only allowed at the premises, there is no doubt that students will remain safe. However, the official Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are not yet issued,” said Gaikwad.He also added that vaccination for children should start soon to ensure more safety for them as they attend offline classes.Parents from the city have welcomed the decision, however, they want a fee reduction for students so far.Prashant Khande, National President, All India Parents, Students and Teachers Association (AIPSTA) said that the decision is welcomed but the fee reduction so far should be implemented strictly.“There are multiple questions about reopening of schools and safety is on the priority. On multiple occasions, students tested positive post attending schools and so utmost safety precautions should be taken at the school premises. However, the step is welcomed as many students are facing learning loss and offline education will help them go back on track on their studies,” said Khande.However, so far fee reduction has not been implemented in the last one and a half years.“In such a case, it seems schools are ordered to reopen now so that they can charge full fees from parents. I request the education department to ensure that fee reduction is implemented for this academic year so far,” said Khande.Rajendra Singh, president of the Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said that not all private schools are likely to reopen from December 1.“We will gradually and slowly reopen classes in private schools while strictly following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Over 90 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff are fully vaccinated with both doses. As many schools are already functioning for Class 8 and above, we will slowly start offline classes from Class 5. Private schools will follow a hybrid form of teaching with online and offline teaching for students to ensure maximum safety,” said Singh.Kiran Desai, secretary of the Pune bus owners’ association, said that the decision to reopen schools is very short-sighted especially for school buses.“For the last one and a half years, school buses have not been functional. Now that the government has decided to reopen primary classes, they have not yet taken any decision concerning school buses. We have not got any SOP from the transport department. Moreover, there is clarity about whether 50 per cent occupancy is allowed or 100 per cent occupancy is allowed. There is no clarity if the driver and lady attendant is expected to get Covid-19 tests in before joining. There are multiple questions which are not answered by the government,” said Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-start-prep-to-reopen-student-safety-top-priority-101637946407393.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath suggests keeping a copy of Constitution at home just like religious books||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said people should keep a copy of the Constitution of India at home just like their religious books. He was speaking at an event at Lok Bhavan in Lucknow for advocates’ welfare on the occasion of Constitution Day.The Constitution gives equal rights to all, including voting rights, and mentions certain duties along with those rights, he said.“That is why we should keep the Constitution in our homes in the same way as we keep the religious books, so that respect for the Constitution can be inculcated in the mind of every Indian. Everyone, along with their individual religion (dharma), also has a duty towards the nation (rashtra dharma),” he said.Before this function, Yogi Adityanath and several Uttar Pradesh ministers were connected from Lok Bhavan in Lucknow to a live event in New Delhi where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the Constitution Day programme. The President led the group reading of the Preamble of the Constitution.Addressing the lawyers, Yogi Adityanath said that this year was special for the people as it coincided with the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence (75th year of independence) and centenary celebrations of the Chauri Chaura incident.He said the UP Vidhan Sabha had also organised special sessions on the values of the Constitution.“It will not be wrong if the Constitution is called the soul of India,” he said.He said PM Modi had laid the foundation stone of the memorial of Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar. Constitution Day was celebrated for the first time in the country with full honour on November 26, 2015, he added. Congratulating the people of the state on the 71st Constitution Day of the country, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday also announced chambers for lawyers will be built in the high court and the courts of all the districts, besides making proper arrangements for litigants coming to the court.He said that his government had increased the Advocate Welfare Fund in the state from ₹1.5 to ₹5 lakh.“The state government has successfully taken forward its efforts like modernization of courts, construction of advocate chamber, POCSO court, fast track court, establishment of National Law University at Prayagraj,” he said.Yogi Adityanath also said before 2017, the citizens of UP were looked upon with suspicion and the state used to be considered BIMARU (laggard), but now the situation had changed.“We have implemented the rule of law in the state,” he said.“Today, the law-and-order situation of UP has become an example. Uttar Pradesh is at number one in 44 schemes of the country. Respect for the country and the state has increased among the common people,” Yogi Adityanath added.He said Uttar Pradesh had become the first choice of investors and the UP model had also been appreciated in the recently held DGPs’ conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-suggests-keeping-a-copy-of-constitution-at-home-just-like-religious-books-101637945866727.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||UP Polls: Rajnath to address booth level workers in Jaunpur on Saturday||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address BJP booth presidents from 16 districts, including Varanasi, in Jaunpur on November 27 in order to speed up preparations for upcoming UP assembly polls, a party leader said. BJP Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi said Singh will be the chief guest at the convention and will be attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, state in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, state president Swatantra Dev Singh, Union ministers Smriti Irani and Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey, MP and state elections co-in-charge Saroj Pandey and UP BJP general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal among others.Rathi said all preparations for the convention have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-rajnath-to-address-booth-level-workers-in-jaunpur-on-saturday-101637945807452.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||NFHS: Anaemia cases down in UP, can be brought down further, say doctors||Anaemia cases among women of all age groups, including pregnant women, have gone down in Uttar Pradesh (UP) while it has increased slightly among children between 6 months and 5-years of age, according to fifth-round of national family health survey (NFHS) even as doctors say the condition can easily be eliminated almost completely with proper diet and medication.“There has been considerable fall in number of anaemic women but there is no reason why children and women remain anaemic as avoiding the condition is simple,” said Dr Rama Srivastava, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.The data showed that 66.4% children between six and 59 months were anaemic against 63.2% in NFHS-4 conducted in 2015-16. In all 45.9% pregnant women between 15 and 49 years of age were found anaemic against 51.0% in NFHS-4 and among all women between the same age group 50.4% were found anaemic against 52.4% in NFHS-4. Doctors said eliminating anaemia just needs balanced diet. “Women just need to ensure their daily diet includes certain food that saves them from anaemia. The lack of folic acid and iron are both responsible for anaemia. Jaggery among other food, found in every house is an excellent source of both these minerals, the regular consumption of which can help prevent anaemia,” said Dr Amita Shukla, senior gynaecologist SC Trivedi Memorial Trust Hospital. In all 21.5% men between 15 and 49 years of age were also found anaemic against 23.7% in NFHS-4. “About 80% anaemia is nutritional hence with proper diet the percentage of anaemia can be brought down to 4 or 5 %,” said Dr PK Gupta, a microbiologist and health activist. “Anybody who has lost blood during surgery or due to chronic ailment related to kidney or any other organ may suffer from anaemia but others can avoid it if they take proper diet. Those unable to get rid of anaemia can also make use of medicines that are provided free-of-cost at government hospitals,” said Dr Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nfhs-anaemia-cases-down-in-up-can-be-brought-down-further-say-doctors-101637945386859.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik consents to re-hearing of Wankhede’s plea||Mumbai NCP leader Nawab Malik on Friday presented a draft of proposed consent terms in the appeal filed by Dnyandev Wankhede, father of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Wankhede filed an appeal against the order passed by the single-judge bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on November 22 in the interim application in the defamation suit filed by him. In the consent terms, Malik has expressed willingness for setting aside of the single-judge bench order of November 22, have the interim application heard all over again by another single judge bench, file a detailed affidavit in response to the interim application and has assured of abiding by the undertaking given by him to the division bench of the HC which is hearing the appeal by Wankhede. The division bench has granted time to Wankhede’s lawyers to respond to Malik’s proposal by Monday. On Friday, advocate Karl Tamboly, who represents Malik in the appeal filed by Wankhede, informed the division bench of Justice S J Kathawalla and Justice Milind Jadhav that his client had prepared a draft of consent terms in response to the appeal filed by Wankhede. The proposed consent terms by Malik are: Setting aside of single-judge order; another single-judge bench should hear parties afresh; Malik be permitted to file a comprehensive affidavit in reply to the interim application in the defamation suit; Malik would abide by the statement made before the HC in appeal till interim application was reheard and re-hearing of the interim application be uninfluenced by the earlier order. Senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf for Wankhede welcoming the proposed consent terms, objected to the setting aside of the 50-page single-judge bench order as it contained any observations that were in their favour. However, he agreed that as the November 22 order had refused to grant an interim injunction against Malik, he wanted time to speak and explain the intricacies of the consent terms to his client. Though the bench asked him to decide on the consent terms in five minutes by speaking to his client, Dr Saraf sought time till Monday which the bench granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-consents-to-re-hearing-of-wankhede-s-plea-101637945086626.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Rare manuscripts at Prayagraj’s Bharti Bhawan Library restored by INTACH||At least 10 rare manuscripts at Prayagraj’s Bharti Bhawan Library that were in a dilapidated condition have been restored by experts of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH).The manuscripts have been recently brought back to the library where they are now accessible to scholars, said INTACH officials. A delegation, including joint secretary of INTACH’s Prayagraj chapter Vaibhav Maini, PR and events coordinator Nilesh Narayan and librarian of Bharti Bhawan Swatantra Pandey brought back the manuscripts from Lucknow-based INTACH Conservation Institute (ICI) recently. Maini said the project was funded by INTACH and it took around four months to restore the manuscripts. “The antique manuscripts were in a dilapidated condition but Bharti Bhawan Library lacked funds required for their restoration and preservation which prompted INTACH to take up the task,” Maini said. The manuscripts that have been restored are Mahakal Sanhita (samwat 1600-1700), Navgrah Srot Mantra Janta (samwat 1600-1700), Mahabharat (Sauptik Parv samwat 1663), Kishkindha Kaand (samwat 1762), Lanka Kaand (samwat 1762), Tulsi Mahatya (samwat 1757), Panchang Panna (samwat 1842), Panchang Panna (samwat 1857), Panchang Panna (samwat 1858), Panchang Panna (samwat 1887). “These manuscripts are part of the rare and rich collection at Bharti Bhawan and a great source of knowledge about religion, science and culture,” Maini further said. Maini said there were more old and important manuscripts and rare books that needed immediate restoration. However, due to lack of funds the work was still pending. “INTACH members and Bharti Bhawan officials will soon hold meetings to chalk out a plan for arranging funds for their restoration,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rare-manuscripts-at-prayagraj-s-bharti-bhawan-library-restored-by-intach-101637944427835.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Teen bullied, assaulted, dies by suicide next day||A 16-year-old boy died by suicide after being allegedly bullied and assaulted on the first day of his offline junior college. The Nhava Sheva police have booked two juveniles for abetment to suicide on Thursday. The deceased and the two minors were classmates till Class 10, after which, they took admission in different junior colleges. According to the family of the deceased, he was assaulted and bullied on November 12, outside a Seawood-based junior college, where he studied. The deceased, an Ulwe resident, while having a conversation with a common friend, had claimed that the two accused were drug addicts. After the duo found out about the claim, they confronted him after his college hours and physically assaulted him. The eyewitness intervened and stopped the fight, police said. The victim then narrated the ordeal to his school friend on Instagram and told him that he was afraid the duo would again assault and bully him, hence, he was going to end his life. The victim’s 24-year-old brother said, “After the chat, he kept his phone on silent mode and switched off the data. The friend, whom he had sent the message, unfortunately, did not have any of the family member’s contact numbers to alert.” The incident came to light after the father of the deceased reached home at around 3pm. Assuming that the son was sleeping, he did not call him. However, after 5pm, when there were no signs of the boy coming out of the room, the father went to check on him and found him dead. After the last rites of the boy were conducted, his brother looked into the phone of the deceased and found that his friend had sent screenshots of the Instagram chats on WhatsApp. On November 15, a complaint of abetment to suicide was filed against the two boys. “Based on allegations, we registered a case. The duo will be produced before the juvenile justice court,” a police officer from Nhava Sheva police station said. “He was an introvert and had scored 77% in his Class 10. He never got involved in any fights. All we now want is justice for my brother,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teen-bullied-assaulted-dies-by-suicide-next-day-101637944426527.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces ₹50,000 as ex gratia for kin of those died due to Covid-19||Maharashtra government on Friday announced its decision to pay an ex gratia sum of ₹50,000 to the families of people who died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the beginning of the pandemic. The state revenue department issued the government's resolution in which it has pledged to compensate kin of those who died of Covid-19.The announcement comes days after Maharashtra Congress Legislature Party wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to commit ₹1 lakh for families of Covid-19 victims as per the norms of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The Congress MLAs, in the letter, said that the decision would force the central government to announce its share of ₹3 lakh for each Covid death.The letter stated that the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) norms require 75% of ₹4 lakh to be paid by the central government and the remaining 25% by the state government.“We request that you commit to upholding the state government's share of ₹4 lakh as ex gratia payment so that it pressurizes the Central government to fulfil its commitment to the affected citizens,” the letter read.“We cannot understand how the Central government continues to collect taxes through rising fuel prices on one hand and provide discal reliefs to big corporates on the other hand and it continues to deny much-needed relief to the citizens,” it added.Uddhav chairs cabinet meet from hospital; winter session in Mumbai from Dec 22Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan chief ministers have also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to increase the compensation from ₹50,000 to ₹4 lakh for each Covid death. Gehlot said the pandemic badly affected the majority of the population and many families lost their earning members and exhausted their savings on hospital bills.“As a welfare state, it is our shared responsibility to look after our citizens during times of need. Our state has started many welfare schemes to help people tide over these difficult times. We expect that the central government will also share this responsibility," the chief minister wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-50-000-as-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-those-died-due-to-covid19-101637943914658.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh appears before Thane Police||A day after he appeared before the Mumbai Police crime branch for inquiry, director general of home guards Param Bir Singh on Friday visited the Thane Nagar police station for probe in connection with a case registered against him on the basis of an extortion complaint by businessman Ketan Tanna in July. According to a senior officer, the former Mumbai top cop was reached the police station around 10.30am and was questioned till evening. The other accused in the extortion case include deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Deepak Devraj, assistant commissioner of police NT Kadam, retired encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma, senior inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and gangster Ravi Pujari. Tanna has alleged that the accused cops had extorted crores of rupees from him and his friend businessman Sonu Jalan in 2018. Jalan had been arrested in connection with a betting racket by the Thane crime branch’s anti extortion cell (AEC) the same year. Sources said Singh was questioned in connection with the allegations made against him as well as over the original case filed by AEC against Jalan, in which the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) had been invoked. In the presence of senior officers, including DCP (zone 1) Avinash Ambure, Singh was questioned about invoking MCOCA as well as over evidence against Jalan. “He also appeared before the Thane sessions court, which had issued a non-bailable warrant against him last month, around 3.30pm. The court has cancelled the warrant. Subsequently, he came back to the police station and the questioning resumed,” an officer said. After several hours of questioning, Singh finally left from the police station around 7 pm. While the Supreme Court has granted him blanket protection from arrest in the cases registered against him, officers said the former top cop might be called again for inquiries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-appears-before-thane-police-101637943707049.html
26-11-2021||Patna||Bihar prohibition: For 4th time, police vow to ensure successful prohibition in state||More than 80,000 Bihar Police members, along with thousands of others across the state, on Friday took a vow against the sale and consumption of alcohol and ensure successful prohibition in the state. Police have been in the firing line over the easy accessibility of liquor in the state, which enforced prohibition in April 2016. This was the fourth pledge taken by the policemen to make prohibition a success, as the previous oaths did not yield the desired results. Around 11 am on Friday, policemen gathered across the state to take the oath, some at their police stations and others on big open grounds. In Patna, Bihar’s police chief SK Singhal administered the oath to several policemen. “I do solemnly swear I will never consume liquor in my lifetime. I shall be liable for stern action if I am ever found involved in any activity involving liquor,” read the oath. Earlier, on December 21, 2020, and April 4, 2016, all police personnel, including home guards, had taken a similar pledge. In 2019 also, the exercise was repeated on the CM’s directive. “Such oath has no legal sanctity. It is strange how the entire officialdom gets down to such meaningless exercise to appear holier than the king. Removing or suspending anyone is purely an administrative decision. In matters of the Excise Act, the courts have also been rightly liberal in granting bail,” said former assistant solicitor general NA Shamshi. Another lawyer Sashikant Yadav said that there was no performance of oath under the India Oath Act 1873 & 1969 (section-3). “There is a defined process for administering an oath. More importantly, if there is no respect for the oath, it becomes a futile exercise,” he said. Former DGP Abhayanand asked what would happen with those policemen, who were on leave today and could not take the oath, if they were caught consuming liquor. “Will they not be dismissed from service? If there is no fear of law, what will an oath do? This oath is being taken in the name of what, the Constitution, law, morality? There are provisions of punishment in the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he added. Bihar police association’s former general secretary KK Jha said that administering oath repeatedly reflects a lack of trust and governance failure. “There is no such provision in the Police Act. The police manual deboned the roles and responsibilities of the police as per the Act. Though the government organises the oath against liquor almost every year, the recent hooch deaths and subsequent police overdrive to nab youth consuming liquor and catch truckloads of smuggled liquor exposed the truth of prohibition, providing the opposition ammunition to attack the government. The main reason attributed to the easy flow of liquor was the police-mafia nexus. Ever since the state went dry in 2016, several lakh litres of illicit liquor have been seized while 850 policemen, found either drunk or hand-in-glove with the liquor traders, have been suspended,” said KK Jha. “Of them, 206 policemen were dismissed from service after the prohibition law was amended and made quite stringent,” said a senior official in the state home department. The CM has now made the SHO of each police station accountable for any illegal sale or consumption of liquor, said the official. From January 2021 and October 2021, the Bihar police seized 38.72 lakh litres of illicit liquor while 62,140 persons, including 1590 outsiders, were arrested and 12,200 vehicles seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-prohibition-for-4th-time-police-vow-to-ensure-successful-prohibition-in-state-101637942866560.html
26-11-2021||Patna||Niti Aayog report: Sparks fly over poor ranking; NDA calls it bundle of lies, oppn rubs it in||A war of words has erupted in Bihar over the recent Niti Aayog’s national multidimensional poverty index baseline report in which the state has been ranked poorly in majority of indices, be it education, nutrition, school attendance, electricity, housing, bank accounts, sanitation and drinking water. While chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday refrained from commenting on the report, state’s energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Bhartiya Janata Party’s state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel called the report a “bundle of lies” and far from ground reality. On the other hand, the report, released on Wednesday, has offered ammunition to the opposition. Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD’s) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is leader of Opposition in the assembly, said, “Bihar government has no logical explanation as to why the state has got a dud in almost all parameters in the report despite the claim that last 16 years of Nitish Kumar’s dispensation have been glorious.” The Niti Aayog report has ranked Bihar lowest in various parameters. It says that 51.91% of the state’s 11 crore population is poor whereas in nutrition index, 51.88% of the population is deprived. In both the indices, the state’s ranks among the worst compared to other states. In child and adolescent mortality, the state is second worst in the country after Uttar Pradesh, says the report. In other indices like maternal health, years of schooling, school attendance and cooking fuel, the state has scored poorly, and has been ranked among the most laggard states. In maternal health, the report says 45.62% of state’s population is deprived of good medical assistance while in years of schooling, 26.27% of population is deprived.In sanitation, Bihar again has scored poorly and is only a notch higher than Jharkhand. The report says that 73.61% of the population is deprived of good sanitation facilities. It says 39.96% of the state’s population are deprived of electricity, putting Bihar on top of the list of states with highest number of households not having power. However, Bihar’s ranking in indices like drinking water is better than other states. “Only 2.35% of the state’s population is deprived of safe drinking water,” it says.The report says that 24.32% of the state’s population is deprived of assets (a household is deemed deprived if it does not own more than one of the assets, be it radio, TV, telephone, computer etc). In bank account index, 26% of the state’s population doesn’t have an account. The report has upset the ruling Janata Dal (United) and the Bhartiya Janata Party. “The entire report has seemingly been made in an arbitrary manner and it is beyond comprehension as what parameters were chosen. How can one accept that 40% of the households in Bihar does not have electricity. Even the centre has praised Bihar for its reforms and initiatives in power sector over the years,” said energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav. “Niti Aayog team should visit Bihar and see how development has taken place over the last several years as compared to the situation before 2005. This report is totally baseless and false,” BJP’ Patel said. He said the per capital income in Bihar in 2005 was ₹7,000, which had risen to ₹46,000 as of now while the budget size had exponentially increased in last 15 years. “Development is visible all over in the state, be in road sector, education or health,” he said. However, Tejashwi Yadav, in a tweet, said, “Bihar in a bad shape in 16 years of Nitish’s rule.” RJD chief Lalu Prasad too has slammed the Nitish Kumar government over the poor score of the state in the Niti Aayog report, saying there has been no worthwhile development in the state last 16 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/niti-aayog-report-sparks-fly-over-poor-ranking-nda-calls-it-bundle-of-lies-oppn-rubs-it-in-101637942747728.html
26-11-2021||Patna||Union power minister to dedicate two NTPC units in Bihar today||Union power, new and renewable energy minister RK Singh will review implementation of central schemes in power sector in Bihar, including the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM Kusum) scheme, which hasn’t seen much progress in the state, officials said.In Singh’s presence, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will dedicate the 500 MW stage-II units of Barauni Thermal Power Station and 660 MW unit 1 of the Barh Super Thermal Power project from Barh in Patna district on Saturday.Both Barh and Barauni units are run by National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).The first component of the PM Kusum scheme involves setting up decentralised ground mounted grid connected renewable power plants of individual plant size up to 2 MW, said an office memorandum of the ministry of New and Renewable Energy, dated July 22, 2019. As part of initiating work on this scheme, the state energy department has decided to invite farmers and private land owners set up grid connected solar plants of 500 kW to 2 MW capacity, said officials of the energy department privy to the scheme. “All an individual has to do is bear the cost of setting up the solar plant. The state discoms will purchase the entire power thus generated at a rate to be decided by the regulator — the Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC). They will also bear the cost of laying transmission line for carrying power from the solar power grid of private land owners to its distribution system,” said the official who did not wish to be named. Central scheme yet to take offMuch of the ground work and inter-department coordination between the discoms — the north and the south Bihar power distribution companies — and the Bihar Renewable Energy Development Agency (BREDA) was lacking, said government sources, even as the discoms want to showcase initiation of work under the PM’s scheme to the Central team on Saturday. “We are yet to identify the potential areas in the state where the scheme can be rolled out and farmers or land owners be invited to set up grid connected solar plants of 500 kW to 2 MW capacity,” said an official who did not wish to be identified. The central scheme is envisaged against the backdrop that India has committed to increasing the share of installed capacity of electric power from non-fossil-fuel sources to 40% by 2030. The Union cabinet had approved scaling up of solar power target from 20,000 MW of grid connected solar power projects to 1,00,000 MW by 2022. While large scale solar power generation projects are being installed to achieve the ambitious target of 100 GW of solar power generation by 2022, it has been planned to simultaneously develop decentralised solar energy and other renewable energy generation plants of capacity up to 2 MW which could be connected directly to existing 33/11 kV or 66/11 kV or 110/11 kV sub-stations of distribution company, thus saving in transmission system requirement apart from transmission and distribution losses. Ironically, not much has been done on this front in Bihar so far. Managing director (MD) of South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited, Sanjiwan Sinha did not respond to calls or text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/union-power-minister-to-dedicate-two-ntpc-units-in-bihar-today-101637942746384.html
26-11-2021||Patna||DA case: Premises of minister’s pvt secy, his friend searched||Special vigilance unit (SVU) of Bihar Police on Friday carried out simultaneous searches on properties of a Bihar Administrative Service (BAS) officer, currently posted as officer on special duty (OSD) at mines and geology department, and his associate in a case of disproportionate assets worth ₹1.74 crore, officials said. The officer, Mritunjay Kumar Verma, has also been serving as private secretary to mines and geology minister Janak Ram since February 26 this year. Verma’s associate Ratna Chatterjee was dismissed from the job in 2012 after she was caught accepting a bribe of ₹30,000 when she was posted as child development project officer in Thakurganj block of Kishanganj district in 2011, SVU officials said. The sleuths conducted raids at the OSD’s residence in Patna and Araria, besides Ratna’s residence at Katihar, where the team seized ₹30 lakh in cash, 30 gold bars, some old currency notes, besides other items. The SVU also seized six cell phones and found details of a shop in a mall, a flat at Siliguri in West Bengal, a plot in Patna worth ₹33 lakh, ornaments worth ₹45 lakh, three LIC policies and six passbooks, all in Ratna’s name. The SVU suspects that all the ill-gotten money was routed through Ratna. Vigilance sleuths also raided Mritunjay’s brother Dhananjay’s house. According to an official of the raiding team, Ratna and Mritunjay have been staying together in a live-in relationship at the latter’s house in Patna. Sources said Mritunjay was under the surveillance of the SVU since May 1, 2021. A disproportionate assets case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and 120 (B) of IPC has been lodged with the SVU police station against Mirtunjay, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/da-case-premises-of-minister-s-pvt-secy-his-friend-searched-101637942386494.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||CNG and piped gas prices hiked in Mumbai for third time in six weeks||For the third time in six weeks, Mahanagar Gas Limited has decided to hike the prices for Compressed Natural Gas(CNG) and Domestic Piped Natural Gas (PNG) with effect from Friday midnight in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. According to all-inclusive revised rates, the CNG price will be increased by ₹3.06 per kg and will be available at the rate of ₹61.50 per kg. While the PNG rates will increase by ₹2.26/Standard Cubic Meter(SCM) and will be priced at ₹36.50/SCM.The month of October saw two revisions in the prices, on October 14, CNG was priced at ₹57.54 per kg while PNG was priced at ₹33.93/SCM in slab 1 and ₹39.53/SCM in slab 2 respectively. October 5 saw the prices of CNG and domestic PNG at ₹54.57 per kg, while PNG was available at ₹32.67/SCM in slab 1 and ₹36.00 /SCM in slab 2.In July, the prices of CNG and domestic PNG were hiked in the city. CNG was available at ₹51.98 per kg while PNG was available at ₹30.40/SCM in slab 1 and ₹36.00 /SCM in slab 2 respectively. Before that CNG was priced at ₹49.40 per kg in the city.According to a statement from Mahanagar Gas Limited, “In order to meet the shortfall in domestic gas allocation, MGL is sourcing additional market-priced natural gas to cater to the increasing requirement of CNG and domestic PNG segments. On account of the substantial increase in natural gas prices in the international market, MGL’s input gas cost has also increased substantially.Even after the above revision, CNG offers attractive savings of about 62 percent and 35 percent as compared to petrol and diesel respectively at current price levels in Mumbai,” said a statement from Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL).Taxi unions had earlier demanded the state government to hike taxi fares in the city. Unions have also threatened to go on a strike if CNG prices hike any further. Unions have approached the state government asking to hike the base fare of taxis by ₹2 and increase it to ₹27 from the present ₹25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cng-and-piped-gas-prices-hiked-in-mumbai-for-third-time-in-six-weeks-101637941846464.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Amid buzz over reshuffle in state BJP, Fadnavis, Patil meet Amit Shah||Mumbai Bharatiya Janata Party‘s (BJP) key leaders from Maharashtra held organisational meetings with the central leadership over the last two days, creating a buzz in the political circles about potential changes in the state unit leadership ahead of the local body elections to be held early next year. However, the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that changes are not on the cards. “We had a long meeting of more than five hours in Delhi in the presence of our national leaders. We deliberated upon the organisational course of action and also reviewed programmes being implemented. Whenever in Delhi, we meet Amit Shah. Our meeting with him was a casual one and there is nothing more to read into it. No organisational changes are on the cards,” he said.Maharashtra, BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and Fadnavis held a marathon meeting with the party’s organisation secretary CT Ravi, Maharashtra in charge BL Santosh in Delhi on Friday. The leaders reportedly discussed the organisational issues and reviewed the outreach programmes ahead of the forthcoming local body elections. Fadnavis and Patil met Union home minister Amit Shah separately over the last two days.Though a section of the party leaders in the state say that there could be organisational changes in the state BJP soon, Fadnavis ruled out such a possibility. The party is expected to make changes in key positions, including the state unit chief, though there is no clarity if they will be done before or after the polls.More than 75% of the local bodies, including municipal corporations and district councils, will face elections in the next six months. BJP rules more than 40% of the local bodies in rural and urban parts of the state. Politically, it is important for the party to do well in these elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-buzz-over-reshuffle-in-state-bjp-fadnavis-patil-meet-amit-shah-101637941607693.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Lack of job opportunities for graduates boost MBA applications by 26% in Maharashtra||Applications for Masters in Business Administration/Masters in Management Studies (MBA/MMS) are slowly witnessing a steady rise across the state in the academic year of 2021-22 compared to last year.According to the figures shared by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell, the admissions authority for professional courses, shows that a total of 54,227 aspirants have completed the pre-admission registration process for around 32,000 seats as compared to 42,814 students who registered for the course last year. The figure stood at 38,000 in 2019.Not only were the total applications for these courses lower than usual in 2020, but figures shared by the state CET cell after closing the admissions window showed how nearly 32% of the allotted seats in MBA/MMS courses went vacant in 2020-21 academic year.“While engineering is still not picking up, several other professional courses are witnessing a rise in the applications. MBA not only attracts fresh graduates but also professionals with work experience,” said an official from the state CET cell.Experts in the industry told HT that the lack of job opportunities for fresh graduates could be one reason for the increasing demand for postgraduate courses like MBA. “While the job scenario is looking better than last year, several fresh graduates are struggling to find a job, especially one that pays well. Many are therefore opting for higher education like MBA to highlight added qualifications on their CV, hoping to fare better in the job market,” said Dr R K Srivastava, professor and HOD, Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lack-of-job-opportunities-for-graduates-boost-mba-applications-by-26-in-maharashtra-101637941606245.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||CBI case against Anil Deshmukh: HC reserves order on state’s petition for SIT probe||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday concluded the hearing on the petition filed by the government, seeking transfer of the investigation in the April 21 first information report (FIR) against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to the special investigation team (SIT). The hearing was concluded after the state, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey responded to the arguments of CBI, which had opposed the transfer of the probe to SIT. Pandey has denied the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his April 19 letter to CBI and also challenged the veracity of the transcripts mentioned in the letter. The state submitted that CBI director Subodh Jaiswal was the decision maker in the police establishment board (PEB) meetings wherein the transfer and posting of over 92% names of officers were finalised and forwarded to the home ministry. Hence, it was Jaiswal who played a vital role in transfers and postings and so the agency headed by him [CBI] could not conduct an unbiased probe into the corruption allegations made against Deshmukh. CBI responded by saying that its willingness to submit a progress report to HC in a sealed envelope proved that there was no need for a court-monitored SIT headed by a retired judge. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, which is hearing the petition filed by the Maharashtra government, was informed by special counsel Darius Khambatta for the state that the claims made by CBI that Jaiswal, despite being the director of the agency would not influence the investigation in the allegations of corruption in transfer and postings of police officers, could not be accepted. Khambatta said that HC’s April 5 order had handed over probe to CBI as it felt Mumbai Police could not do an impartial investigation as Deshmukh then headed the home ministry. A similar parallel could be drawn in the case of Jaiswal, he said, adding that the fact that CBI did not disclose to HC that they had recorded the agency director’s statement with regards to the case in May indicated that there was bias. The court was further informed that the refusal of the Centre to part with the third pen drive – which was part of its investigation in the data leak case against unknown persons – was also indicative of an attempt to put the blame of corruption only on Deshmukh, while others were involved as well. Khambatta lastly submitted that CBI’s objection that the state could not file the petition under the parens patriae (parent of the nation) jurisdiction was also not valid as the agency summoned Pandey who was not even part of PEB when the alleged acts of corruption took place. He said that as the summons would affect the morale of the entire police force in the state, it had filed the petition under parens patriae jurisdiction on behalf of the force. Responding to the rejoinder by the state and the two officers, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi for CBI submitted that there was no mala fides on the agency’s part in summoning the two top officers or by having Jaiswal at the helm of the agency. He concluded that HC could monitor the investigations by itself rather than transferring it to an SIT headed by a retired judge as CBI was willing to submit progress reports in a sealed covers for perusal of the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-case-against-anil-deshmukh-hc-reserves-order-on-state-s-petition-for-sit-probe-101637941006217.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||BJP, Congress reach consensus, 4 legislative council candidates get elected unopposed||Four of the six seats of the state legislative council to be elected from local body constituencies in five districts have been elected unopposed after Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders decided to avoid the ‘horse trading’ in the polls. Nagpur and Akola-Buldhana-Washim constituencies will go for the polls on December 10. Sunil Rane of Shiv Sena and Rajhans Singh of BJP from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), minister of state and Congress leader Satej Patil from Kolhapur local bodies and BJP leader Amrish Patel from Dhule-Nandurbar have been elected unopposed. Nagpur seat will see a fight between the former minister and BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule and Congress’s Ravindra Bhoyar. Bhoyar switched to Congress last week after BJP denied him the ticket and fielded Bawankule. Sena’s sitting member of legislative council (MLC) Gopikishan Bajoria is pitted against BJP’s Vasant Khandelwal in the Akola-Buldhana-Washim constituency. State leaders from BJP and Congress held a round of meetings last week in Mumbai to avoid the elections which induce ‘horse trading and bad blood’ in the elections. The two parties arrived at the consensus to withdraw their candidates in Dhule-Nandurbar, Mumbai and Kolhapur. Congress leader Suresh Koparkar withdrew his nomination from Mumbai, while BJP candidate Amal Mahadik withdrew from Kolhapur. Congress’s Gaurav Wani withdrew the nomination from the Dhule-Nandurbar constituency. Congress and BJP candidates were in a comfortable winning position in Kolhapur and Dhule-Nandurbar respectively. “Congress thinks they can defeat us in Nagpur, but Bawankule will emerge victorious without any hassle,” said the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Amal Mahadik said that he was withdrawing his nomination as directed by the state leadership of the BJP. Satej Patil said that the decision of amicable understanding in two constituencies was taken at the state level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-congress-reach-consensus-4-legislative-council-candidates-get-elected-unopposed-101637940766099.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Prayers For Her Departed Soup||It’s always challenging to write about bereavement and loss, more so, at times like these, when everyone has felt the immeasurable grief of losing loved ones. After all, death is the great unifier and the universal condition, and who amongst us is not familiar with its pain? But I wonder if I’m the only one who notices the piquancy (and often inadvertent hilarity) of bereavement, in the time of social media and how different things were in this department in the days before its arrival.Remember those days? When the death of a loved one meant that right on top of the list of tasks for organising their final passage into the great unknown, was that you had to inform their family, friends and the general public at large of their demise in the classified section of the next day’s newspapers?Of course, how you went about this task was up to you. The announcement could be discreet, florid, stoic, expansive or expensive, depending on your personality, relationship with the deceased, size of your wallet etc; but the message was the same: So, and so had passed on, to the great beyond. They would be sorely missed. You could come and pay your last respects at this stipulated place and time (unless you cited the forbidding no visits, please) and that was it more or less when it came to the public face of your grieving. Because a few days later, after people had trooped in offered their commiserations and condolences, you were expected to fold away your grief along with your mourning face and clothes and begin the process of getting back to your normal existence, nursing your desolation in privacy.But no, thanks to Zuck and Co. and their shiny new toys, today, it doesn’t end there.Today, thanks to social media one’s grieving can go on ad nauseam. So, you have people marking the first anniversary of their loved one’s passing, then the second and third ...to the 50th…. This in itself would not be remarkable, until you realize that the usual practice to do this is by addressing them directly in the posts. (Eg: Dearest Dad. You have left a great void in my heart that will never be filled.’ Or ‘ Ravi my childhood friend, I just want to say that I still miss you twenty-three years after your passing. BTW yaar: I’m sorry for stealing your science notebook and then your business idea and GF (who is my wife now). Hope you’re happy up there. Love you forever.’)I often wonder what people think when they post such heartfelt messages to those who have left for their final resting places. Do they imagine that an afterlife is a place that has good Wi-Fi connectivity and that its inhabitants all have Facebook accounts, which they check regularly? And what about others who post messages to their much-adored deceased pets? (‘Silky, there will always be a place in my heart for you.’ And ‘ Dearest Fido, how I miss you!!’) Do they do this in the belief that Silky and Fido have not only learnt to read after they died, but also have FB accounts and check their timelines?*********************************************************************************************************************Of course, one of the most important parts of processing grief and coming to terms with personal loss is through community support and there is no denying that for this, social media is invaluable. Before its advent, loved ones were missed in private moments through the course of one’s day; a song, a fragrance, a memory would occur perhaps while we were sipping tea and a silent tear would begin to roll down. But today, before the tear is halfway down our cheek, we can share this feeling with our friends and family on social media and receive their almost instantaneous love and empathy in good measure. Of course, your post will call upon them to appropriately (and sensitively) respond to your lamentation with messages of comfort and commiseration. Sentences like ‘He/She is in a better place/ They will always be with you… etc.’ are expected and imparted. Orr, perhaps they will respond with an appropriately empathetic emoticon. (The popular choice is the ‘care’ emoticon, followed by a decorous Namaste and accompanied by a single, solemn rose (Though it’s best to avoid a whole bouquet or a hug as they might convey jocularity).However, social media has brought inadvertent hilarity to even this aspect of bereavement thanks to the devil in its system –that vexatious ingredient of all modern communication: Spellcheck.In the saddest moments of a person’s grieving, it is not unknown for their friends and family to blithely post messages that cannot but evoke in them a secret giggle or even a hearty belly laugh.Messages such as ‘Sending heartfelt prayers for her departed soup’ or even ‘I’m Shanti. I’m Shanti.’ (instead of Om Shanti) in response to your post about your much-adored octogenarian mum having passed on, are not unknown.Of course, the other peculiar aspect that social media has brought to the business of bereavement and dying is the fact that we have to regularly deal with the unfamiliar and often searing loss of people we’ve never met. People with who we laughed jousted and shared our innermost thoughts and private moments daily. One fine morning we wake up and learn that they’ve copped it; how does one process this loss in the real world? Especially in the company of people you live and work with who perhaps had no clue how deeply you felt for the deceased person, who not only had you never met but had no intention of ever meeting? Is there a name for this kind of bereavement and sadness? And if not, isn’t it time social scientists/psychiatrists/ anthropologists and sundry navel-gazers study this peculiar impact of social media ‘s ubiquity?*****************************************************************************************************************************So, as I was saying the omnipresence of social media has brought much piquancy (and often hilarity) into the way we process and deal with loss and bereavement: Not only has it led us to believe that our dear departed loved ones regularly log on and read the loving messages we send them on our social media platforms. But also, that our adored deceased pets have somehow learnt to read,( this, after spending their entire lives on earth not being able to master a simple command like ‘ Sit’) and are also checking their social media accounts. Also, it has given us emoticons to express how deeply we care and has brought us the peculiar unfamiliar pain of losing people we have never met. But above all it has given us that timeless phrase, that never fails to bring a giggle to even the most despondent soul in their hour of suffering the loss of a loved one: ‘ May they RIP’ …||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-prayers-for-her-departed-soup-101637940526425.html
26-11-2021||Ranchi||Blame game begins as Jharkhand figures among poorest states in Niti Aayog report||The JMM-led ruling dispensation and the opposition BJP on Friday engaged in a war of words over reasons behind the state's backwardness after Jharkhand emerged as the second-poorest state in the country at Niti Aayog's Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI). Hitting out at the Hemant Soren government, the BJP said the dispensation did not implement the central schemes properly as it was busy with transfers and postings. In response, the ruling JMM sought to know if the saffron camp, during its tenure, was "asleep". Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh have emerged as the poorest states in India, according to MPI. The report stated that 51.91 per cent population of Bihar is poor, followed by 42.16 per cent in Jharkhand. "The situation is alarming. The JMM-led government in the state failed to implement the Centre's policies on food security and pension on the ground. Budgetary allocations are barely spent. Ever since this JMM-led alliance rode to power, it has been busy with transfers and postings so much so that over 200 officials were shifted during the pandemic," said BJP state spokesperson Kunal Sarangi. Sarangi alleged that the government has completely ignored the interest of the masses. Rubbishing the allegation, JMM general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya pointed out that the BJP, despite ruling the state for the major part of the time since its formation, "did not do much to alleviate poverty". "It is the present regime which is making all sorts of policies to address issues of hunger and scarcity. Amid the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, the present state government has started programmes like 'Aapke Adhikar, Aapki Sarkar, Aapke Dwar' (Your rights, your government at your door), aimed at resolving issues related to government schemes," Bhattacharya said. Admitting that many children in the state still suffer from malnutrition, he said a slew of initiatives are being taken to improve the situation, and the change will be visible in a few years. Echoing him, state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey claimed that the incumbent government is focused on all-round development of the state, like never before. Terming the Niti Aayog report a "realistic" one, state finance minister and Congress leader Rameshwar Oraon said 15 lakh ration cards have been distributed among people, while 13 lakh residents of the state have already benefitted from the pension scheme. A number of schemes have also been launched for the farmers, he said, adding that jobs were being provided to the poor. In the 2019 Assembly elections, the JMM-Congress-Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) alliance trounced the BJP, winning 47 seats in the 81-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/blame-game-begins-as-jharkhand-figures-among-poorest-states-in-niti-aayog-report-101637938349856.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Confidential’ papers shared on WhatsApp: Builder Sanjay Punamiya, son get bail||Mumbai sessions court granted anticipatory bail to builder Sanjay Punamiya and his son Sunny last week in a case registered by the Marine Drive police after certain purportedly “confidential” documents were found shared by them on WhatsApp. A detailed order was released on Friday. Punamiya was arrested in the extortion case registered against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. During the course of investigation of the case, it was found that on May 4, the builder had shared with his son some purportedly confidential documents, such as the call data records of his partner’s nephew and documents relating to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s case. A case was registered against the builder and his son on October 20 for theft under section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and some provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000, as well as the Telegraph Act. Apprehending arrest in connection with the case, Punamiya and Sunny had approached the sessions court. The court granted pre-arrest bail to both of them after noticing that absolutely nothing was mentioned in the FIR against Sunny. “There are no sufficient and justifiable grounds for which the custody of both applicants is required for custodial interrogation,” said additional sessions judge Dr UJ More while granting anticipatory bail to the father and son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/confidential-papers-shared-on-whatsapp-builder-sanjay-punamiya-son-get-bail-101637938125592.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Over 91% positive for antibodies in TMC’s sero survey||Thane Over 91% of the samples tested by Thane Municipal Corporation in the recent sero survey showed the presence of antibodies to fight against Covid-19. Out of the total 1,571 samples tested, those residing in slum areas have lesser antibodies at 88.12% than those residing in non-slum areas at 93.32%. Around 94.3% of the samples tested of those fully vaccinated showed the presence of antibodies. With the help of ATE Chandra Foundation and IDFC Institute, who helped with financial and technical aspects, the corporation conducted the survey among nine wards in the city.“Our sample size included around 10 to 12% of people from each ward, 51% were from slums and another 49% from non-slum areas. We also divided the samples into six different age brackets,” said Milind Ubale, microbiologist and principal co-ordinator of the sero survey, TMC. He further added that although 91% of the samples have shown the presence of antibodies, they are still not sure whether it is enough to achieve herd immunity. “Very few countries with high vaccination numbers have seen another wave. Only Thane’s antibody count doesn’t matter. The status of neighbouring cities, states and countries will also impact a probable third wave,” he added.Dr Vipin Sharma, Commissioner, TMC, said, “We assumed that Majiwada Manpada area, which saw the highest number of cases, will have more antibodies, but that is not the case. Due to the presence of individual homes and lack of interaction with other families, this ward has around 79.21% antibodies, while the densely-populated Lokmanya-Savarkar Nagar may have developed immunity with the presence of 93.92% antibodies.” Uthalsar has the highest antibody population at 96% followed by Lokmanya and Savarkar Nagar. It has also come to light that those who are not vaccinated have only around 89% and 90% antibodies in slum and non-slum populations respectively. Those who are partially vaccinated in slums and non-slums have 90% and 96% antibodies present. While the presence of antibodies among fully vaccinated in non-slums continue to be at 96%, among those in slum areas the antibodies have increased to 92.22% after being fully vaccinated. “This 2% also matters and hence we are requesting everyone to get vaccinated with both doses at the earliest. The survey also highlights that those who have been fully vaccinated overall have developed a 94.8% antibody presence. Despite various efforts, we have noticed that among the slum population, those who have taken the first dose, do not return for their second dose,” said Naresh Mhaske, Mayor, Thane. For the first time in such a survey, samples of children from the age group of 6 to 18 were also collected. It has been observed that they have the lowest presence of antibodies at 83.43% as they have not been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-91-positive-for-antibodies-in-tmc-s-sero-survey-101637937465662.html
26-11-2021||Other||Punjab Int’l trade expo starts in Amritsar from December 2||Amritsar The Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), usually an annual event, is starting in the holy city from December 2 this year, with no event held in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will inaugurate this expo, a premier trade and business exhibition, that the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has been organising for 14 years in a row, before last year’s unavoidable break. Officials have been assigned duties to ensure the event is smoothly conducted. Traders of Thailand, Egypt, Turkey and other countries, apart from other states of the country, are participating. Participation of Pakistan traders, however, remains uncertain as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-int-l-trade-expo-starts-in-amritsar-from-december-2-101637937345909.html
26-11-2021||Pune||To generate more revenue, PMPML to develop 10 depots||PUNE The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to develop ten depots so that they can generate revenue and minimise the gap between revenue and expenditure.According to the PMPML authorities, the projective cumulative losses of the PMPML for the next ten years will be close to ₹9,600 crore. The current fleet size of PMPML consists of 2,261 buses, but only around 1, 510 buses ply on the city roads.PMPML has 17 depots and 13 open spaces under its jurisdiction. Out of the 17 depots, four are reserved for electric buses. All depots and open spaces are located at prominent places in various areas across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits. Maharashtra state government has already approved a 2.5-floor space index (FSI) for the land owned by PMPML.The proposal to develop these depots was taken during the board meeting held recently.Dattatrey Tulpule, incharge of the civil department of PMPML, said, “In the first phase, we will develop ten depots on the lease of 30 years. We have called proposals from private players to develop the land. We will provide some part of the land to private players for commercial utilisation.”To capitalise on the prime assets of the depots, PMPML had carried out a feasibility study of 30 depots a few months ago with help of a private agency named VK Associates. As per the report, PMPML needs ₹11,666 crore for the modernisation and development of existing depots.As per the report, depots can be developed according to the areas where they are located. The agency has estimated that the modernisation would fetch profits up to ₹1,516 crore for PMPML annually once the depots are developed and the space leased for commercial activities. The depots besides having facilities for buses will also have commercial offices, hotels, hospitals, which will bring in the desired revenues.At present, private players or government semi-government establishments are already using Pune station, Na Ta Wadi depot land for their official purpose on a lease basis.As per officials, the PMPML higher authority will take the final decision on the issue of already leased out land in various depots.As per the report, depots will have workshops along with ample parking facilities for the buses while the upper floors will accommodate hospitals, hotels and offices and other commercial establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/to-generate-more-revenue-pmpml-to-develop-10-depots-101637936985622.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Waiting for respite from traffic jams at Hinjewadi? You’ll have to wait a little longer||PUNE With private offices resuming operations and the construction of the Metro in full swing, industries in Hinjewadi have stressed the completion of the alternate road to Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park through Maan-Mhalunge at the earliest. The Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA) has also taken up the issue with the concerned authorities. The work of the proposed project has been jointly undertaken by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and the Public works Department (PWD) of the state government. Col (Retd) Charanjeet Singh Bhogal, chief operating officer Hinjewadi Industries Association, said, “The road is in patches of three and six lanes. The road is nearing completion from the Maan area but has not been connected to the bridge that has been ready since January 2018. We have been told that the patch connecting the road to the bridge is incomplete because of the land acquisition issue. With companies resuming operations, we expect employee footfall to increase from January. Hence, the alternate route must be completed to avoid traffic snarls.” The alternate road to phase three of the Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park in Hinjewadi through Maan-Mhalunge is expected to cut short the commute time by an hour, thus reducing the traffic congestion. However, the work on various stretches of the proposed road has been stalled due to opposition from locals. A senior official from MIDC who is monitoring the project and has conducted meetings with HIA, on the condition of anonymity said, “The MIDC is incharge of constructing the road and the responsibility of land acquisition lies with the PMRDA. Construction has been completed in areas where there is no land dispute. Though the construction of the bridge was completed in 2018, the land issue has affected its connectivity. We will complete the work as soon as this issue is resolved.” The HIA has also demanded an underpass on the Baner-Hinjewadi road to avoid the traffic congestion at the junction. “We have written to the National Highway Authority of India about it. They have pointed out some technical difficulties. But the work of the underpass and the alternate road should be done at the earliest,” added Bhogal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/waiting-for-respite-from-traffic-jams-at-hinjewadi-you-ll-have-to-wait-a-little-longer-101637936745823.html
26-11-2021||Other||Channi, Sidhu enacting ‘tamasha’ in Punjab, says BJP’s Chugh||Chandigarh BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi and Punjab Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Sidhu have made ‘a tamasha’ of the entire state. Chugh added it has always been clear that Channi and Sidhu are not on the same page, because of their conflict of interest, but it is shame that in the process they have made Punjab an ugly stage of political gimmicks.Chugh said the AAP and the Akali Dal were also doing the same to the state. “Instead of making sensible statements and promises to the people, they are ridiculing people of Punjab by making false and baseless promises,” he said.Reacting to media reports that Channi’s brother was involved in the Ludhiana City scam, Chugh said the BJP has been always saying that the Punjab Congress is nothing, but mafia gangs and corruption personified.Chugh said the Congress government in Punjab did not know what the right hand was doing, and what was the left one getting into. He claimed the way Channi and Sidhu have been working at cross-purposes indicated that the Congress high command had no idea how a sensitive border state like Punjab has been handed over to political “tamashbins”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-sidhu-enacting-tamasha-in-punjab-says-bjp-s-chugh-101637936565534.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai traffic cops request RTO to suspend 953 licenses||Navi Mumabi The Navi Mumbai Traffic police department has sent a proposal to Regional Transport Officer (RTO), Vashi, to suspend licenses of 953 motorists who jumped the signal this month. In a special drive that was undertaken by the traffic department from November 15 to November 22, 2,216 offenders who broke various traffic rules were penalised. Meanwhile, from November 1 onwards, around 953 motorists jumped signals and did not stop before the zebra crossing. “These licenses were seized and has been forwarded to RTO office to suspend it for three months. The motorists have been asked to revoke their suspension of license after three months by applying for the same at RTO,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic) Purushottam Karad said. “Since April this year, we have suspended 1,825 such licenses at the request of the traffic department. The action is taken as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court,” Deputy RTO Hemangini Patil from Vashi said. The Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety headed by Justice KS Radhakrishnan had issued specific instructions in 2015 to all states and UTs and their concerned departments. The instructions were to suspend the licence of a driver for a period of not less than 3 months under Section 19 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 read with Rule 21 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for driving at a speed exceeding the specified limit, red light jumping and other traffic violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-traffic-cops-request-rto-to-suspend-953-licenses-101637936385527.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||BJP held hands of family-run parties to grow, says Shiv Sena; slams PM’s dynasty politics remark||After Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi said that the reins of political parties in the hands of one family are the “biggest threat to democracy,” Shiv Sena hit out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying it has held hands of such political parties to rise to power. Shiv Sena, which boycotted the Constitution Day celebration along with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, said that the government has trampled the Constitution for the last seven years. Speaking in the Central Hall of the Parliament on the occasion of the Constitution Day on Friday, PM Modi said that dynasty politics is against the democratic nature of the country. Modi’s remark was indirectly aimed at Congress, but he also said that dynasty politics is seen right from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. Reacting to the statement, Sena Member of Parliament (MP) and chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said, “The BJP has held the hand of such [family-run] political parties and has achieved this. BJP grew because of Shiv Sena [in Maharashtra]. They took the support of so-called family-run party [Peoples Democratic Party] in Kashmir to come to power in the state. It is convenient for them to make such statements now, but these parties have got the support of the people.” Senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the current Union government does not work as per the Constitution. “All the Opposition parties boycotted the event because our Constitution is trampled upon daily in the country. There is no rule of the Constitution in the nation, it is functioning in an autocratic manner,” he said. He added that the state’s rights and functioning are hampered through the Raj Bhavan in many states. “So why this pretence to celebrate Constitution Day?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-held-hands-of-family-run-parties-to-grow-says-shiv-sena-slams-pm-s-dynasty-politics-remark-101637935905386.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal govt announces free pilgrimage to Kartarpur Sahib & Velankanni||After promising free pilgrimage to Ayodhya to senior citizens, the Delhi government has now announced that it will provide free pilgrimage to Sikh and Christian communities in the national capital to Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni, reported news agency ANI.While the first batch of passengers to Kartarpur Sahib will leave on January 5, 2022, in a deluxe bus from Delhi; the first train for Velankanni will leave on January 7, 2022."Recently, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had gone to Ayodhya and had the privilege of seeing Ram Lalla there. After this, on the orders of the Chief Minister, it was also included in the list of pilgrimages for the elders of Delhi. At the same time, recently, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced to include Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni in this list. After this, the Delhi government has included Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni in addition to Ayodhya in the Tirth Yojna," news agency ANI quoted a statement by the Office of the Minister of Revenue as saying."Revenue minister Shri Kailash Gahlot today reviewed the preparations for the launch of Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna as well as flagging off the train on the Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi route. The first train to Ayodhya is scheduled to be flagged off on December 3," the statement further read.Senior officers from the revenue department, IT department, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) were also present during the meeting."Any person who is a resident of Delhi and has completed the age of 60 years can apply under the scheme (MMTY) irrespective of their financial status. Also, one attendant above the age of 21 years can accompany the Senior Citizens. Anyone fulfilling the eligibility conditions can avail this scheme only once during one's lifetime," informed the department's statement.About the schemeMukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna was launched by Kejriwal on July 12, 2019. Under the scheme, the Delhi Government offers free travel packages for pilgrimage to senior citizens from the national capital.A total of 1100 residents per assembly constituency can avail of this facility in a year subject to the cap of total 77,000 Yatris per year. Since its formal launch, a total of 35080 beneficiaries have travelled under the scheme, according to the statement.Application to avail of the benefits under the scheme can be submitted on the e-District portal of the Delhi Government. The beneficiary would be able to travel through AC 3 Tier and AC 2X2 coaches subject to the availability of the same.Meanwhile, 15,000 applicants who had applied for yatra under the scheme in 2019 but could not avail of the facility due to the Covid-19 pandemic would receive SMS informing them about the option of amending their applications for choosing the Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi route and also uploading fully vaccinated certificates on the e-district portal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-govt-announces-free-pilgrimage-to-katarpur-sahib-velankanni-101637933304902.html
26-11-2021||Pune||PMC initiates inquiry into Ambil Odha compound wall construction||PUNE: Following the Anti-Corruption Bureau’s (ACB’s) instructions to conduct an inquiry into the construction of compound walls along Ambil Odha - a freshwater stream that runs through Pune city – the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated the said inquiry.Right to Information (RTI) activist Shailendra Dixit filed a complaint with the ACB, alleging negligence in the tendering process in erecting the compound wall along Ambil Odha. As most of the safety walls along the stream were damaged in the floods that took place two years ago, the PMC decided to erect walls around its own properties along Ambil Odha. Dixit claimed that while the original tender cost was Rs15.13 crore, the cost of the project rose to Rs18.59 crore owing to the contractor’s inability to complete the work in time. He said that the project cost got unnecessarily inflated due to negligence on the part of the administration and the contractor. Taking note of Dixit’s complaint, the ACB asked the PMC to conduct an inquiry.Head of the PMC estate department Rajendra Muthe confirmed, “We received complaints about it and the PMC administration is carrying out an inquiry.”Two years ago, Ambil Odha was flooded due to heavy rain and the properties alongside from Katraj to Sadashiv peth were damaged. While there was demand for compound walls to be erected around private properties, both the state government and civic administration refused permission. Ultimately, the PMC decided to erect compound walls around its own properties that were damaged in the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-initiates-inquiry-into-ambil-odha-compound-wall-construction-101637934885923.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane man held for sexually assaulting 13-year-old daughter||Shahapur police in Thane arrested a 45-year-old man on Wednesday for allegedly sexually assaulting his teenage daughter repeatedly over the past eight months. The 13-year-old survivor has told the police that she also got pregnant and had a miscarriage last month. According to the police, the accused and his wife separated in January, following which the man and his daughter started staying in Shahapur, while the girl’s mother and younger sister began residing started staying in Khardi in Thane district. Earlier this month, some of the accused’s neighbours contacted the girl’s mother and told her that they had noticed that the girl was unwell and in great pain in October. The mother immediately called her up and found out about her pregnancy. The girl told her mother that she had lost the child owing to lack of any medical care, said the police. “When the girl’s mother went to meet her, the teen told her that her father had been sexually assaulting her since February,” said inspector Rajkumar Upase from Shahapur police station. The horrified mother took the girl with her to her house and on Tuesday approached Khardi police, where a first information report (FIR) was registered against the accused. The FIR was transferred to Shahapur police late on Tuesday night as the offence occurred in their jurisdiction. “We immediately picked up the accused for inquiry and subsequently placed him under arrest on Wednesday morning. We have charged him for rape under the Indian Penal Code as well as under the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He has been remanded in police custody till Saturday,” Upase said. The police are interrogating the accused based on the statement given by her, officers said.Meanwhile, the girl has been admitted to a government hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-13-year-old-daughter-101637934528503.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||AIMIM to campaign for Maharashtra municipal polls; rally on Dec 11||While parties like the Trinamool Congress are aggressively poaching the support bases of the Congress, the party will also have to contend with the presence of the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in Maharashtra. Next month, the AIMIM will soft-launch its campaign for the Maharashtra municipal polls with a rally at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai on December 11, which will be addressed by party chief and Lok Sabha member of Parliament (MP) Asaduddin Owaisi and touch upon issues confronting the Muslim community. The AIMIM is attacking the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for allying with the pro-Hindutva Shiv Sena and for seeking the votes of the Muslims, yet dragging its feet on providing quotas for them. It is also demanding the revival of the waqf board and using its resources for the community’s welfare. Led by the firebrand Owaisi brothers from Hyderabad—Asaduddin and member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Akbaruddin Owaisi, the AIMIM appeals to a section of Muslims like the youth, who are of the opinion that the “secular” parties use them as a vote bank, while the community continued to be institutionally neglected and socially, politically and educationally backward. The AIMIM, which contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), notched up its first victory outside Hyderabad, with its Imtiaz Jaleel breaching the saffron stronghold of Aurangabad. Congress-NCP leaders grumble that the VBA ate into the “secular” votes, causing their defeat in eight constituencies. Though the alliance fell apart later, the AIMIM won two seats in the Maharashtra Assembly. “Between 2014 and 2019, the Congress and NCP were seeking that the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government must introduce quotas for the Muslims. But, why are they dragging their feet now that they are in power?” questioned Jaleel, AIMIM MP from Aurangabad, and the party’s Maharashtra chief. The Bombay high court (HC) had stayed the Maratha quota and reservations in jobs for Muslims that was introduced by the erstwhile Congress-NCP regime in 2014, but did not stay the decision to reserve 5% seats for Muslims in education. The BJP-Shiv Sena government later approved a bill for Maratha reservations, but did not cover Muslims. Muslims form 11.54% of Maharashtra’s population, the fourth-largest after Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, with substantial numbers in Mumbai, Marathwada, Vidarbha and North Maharashtra. The AIMIM is demanding a revival package for the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf (MSBW), which controls 93,000 acre of prime Muslim endowment lands across Maharashtra, but has few resources to protect it. “The board must get a one-time (revival) package. These vacant lands must be used for starting schools, commercial complexes to generate employment, and hostels for girls.” sought Jaleel, noting that most waqf lands are encumbered. Jaleel said they had originally planned to hold the rally as part of this campaign on November 27, but were denied permissions by the police citing Covid-19 restrictions. He stated that the Shiv Sena, Congress, NCP and the BJP, were conducting public meetings, even without the consent of the police. The AIMIM has, hence, threatened to hold the meeting at the BKC grounds, even if the permissions do not come through and its workers will come to Mumbai in vehicles flying the tricolour, instead of the party standard, to mark the 75th year of India’s independence. Jaleel said that while political motives could be attributed to this campaign being launched before the municipal elections, they were “raising genuine questions at the right time.” Critics of the Muslim quota move oppose religion-based reservations, and note how weaker sections in the community have already been covered in categories like Other Backward Class (OBC). The economically-weaker groups can seek quota benefits under the 10% economically weaker sections (EWS) reservations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aimim-to-campaign-for-maharashtra-municipal-polls-rally-on-dec-11-101637934465303.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Mayor to hold condolence meet for Babasaheb Purandare on November 27||PUNE Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, has organised a condolence meeting to pay tribute to the late Babasaheb Purandare on Saturday (November 27). Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will remain present for the meeting.It will be held at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch at Swargate.Many eminent personalities will remain present for the meeting including urban development minister Eknath Shinde among others. It is expected that all party leaders would join the condolence meeting along with people from all walks of life.In more than eight decades of his career in writing and theatre, Purandare delivered more than 12,000 lectures on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and studied all the forts and the history of the Maratha Empire, making him an authority on the subject. He penned and directed a historical play titled “Jaanta Raja” in 1985, which became a theatrical magnum opus performed down the years by over 200 artistes, translated and enacted in five languages and clocking over 1,250 stage shows in Maharashtra, Goa, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and the USA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mayor-to-hold-condolence-meet-for-babasaheb-purandare-on-november-27-101637933925200.html
26-11-2021||Other||Sandhu appointed Punjab Infotech chairman||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Friday appointed lawyer and author Harpreet Singh Sandhu as the chairman of Punjab Information Technology and Communication Technology Corporation Limited. Expressing gratitude to the CM Charanjit Singh Channi and industries minister Gurkirat Singh for this big responsibility, Sandhu said he will fulfil this task with utmost dedication and honesty. Sandhu, an advocate from Ludhiana, is a practising lawyer and has remained a former Punjab additional advocate general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sandhu-appointed-punjab-infotech-chairman-101637933805201.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Kopar Khairane murder-suicide: Dead husband booked||More than three weeks after a couple was found dead in their flat in Kopar Khairane, the police investigation has now revealed the case is that of murder-suicide and booked the deceased husband for murder. According to police, it was found that the duo had frequent disputes. On the night of November 4, they argued, following which, the husband, 48, killed his wife, 42, and then hung himself, said police.On the morning of November 5, the couple’s 13-year-old boy found his parents dead in their residence at Sector 5, Ghansoli. The Kopar Khairane police had then registered an accidental death case. The couple’s eldest son studied in Pune, while the younger son resided with them. “After speaking to the younger son, we found that the couple often engaged in arguments. On the night of November 4 too, they had a dispute. When he woke up the next morning, he found them dead,” a police officer said. The autopsy report revealed that the wife had died of strangulation and the husband by hanging. It was found that during the fight, the husband strangulated the wife in a fit of rage and then probably he killed himself, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kopar-khairane-murder-suicide-dead-husband-booked-101637933565211.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Zero beds occupied at Thane Covid Care Centres||Thane With increased vaccination and lower positive cases, the occupancy in Covid Care Centres for mild or asymptomatic patients in Thane city has become zero post-Diwali. Moreover, in the last few days, occupancy of oxygen beds has also come down to 0.8%. According to Thane Municipal Corporation officials, the symptoms among positive patients are less and hence, they prefer isolating at home. “We hardly have a handful of patients at our dedicated Covid centres. We have all the required infrastructure in place for the third wave,” said Sandeep Malvi, Additional Commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation. There are 4,166 beds in dedicated Covid centres or jumbo facilities within TMC jurisdiction, and hardly 70 of the beds are occupied currently. Similarly, only 19 ICU beds and eight ventilator beds are currently occupied. Among the 404 oxygen beds, hardly eight are occupied. The city has been adding about 40 cases on a daily basis. As Thane city has a recovery rate of 98.31% and an overall growth rate of Covid cases stood at .03 per cent over the past week, two Covid care centres were shut down. “Everyone still has to follow all Covid protocols. Thanks to vaccination, the impact is much less when compared to the need for hospitalisation during the first and second waves. We have around 300 active cases at present,” added Malvi. Since August this year, the requirement for Covid beds has reduced drastically. In mid-April, when cases were at the peak, 80% of beds were occupied and most people faced a shortage of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/zero-beds-occupied-at-thane-covid-care-centres-101637933085308.html
26-11-2021||Other||{2015 sacrilege case} Dera Sacha Sauda admn head Vipassana, vice-head Nain fail to appear before SIT||Faridkot Dera Sacha Sauda administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and vice-chairperson PR Nain failed to appear before a Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege case on Friday. The SIT, which IGP Surinder Pal Singh Parmar is heading, has now issued fresh summons to both office-bearers of the Sirsa-based dera to appear at the Ludhiana Range office on December 3. Vipassana and Nain are also facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017, a special CBI court convicted dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a rape case. Nain cited poor health to be seek exemption from appearance and submitted his medical report through his counsel. The SIT has received no communication from Vipassana. Vipassana and Nain were asked to appear before the SIT chief Parmar on November 26 at 9am at the Ludhiana Range office in connection with an FIR lodged at the Bajakhana police station on June 2, 2015. The FIR was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot district. Summons were issued under Section 160 (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). SIT head Parmar said, “Nain has sent his medical report citing poor health for his unavailability. We have not received any communication from Vipassana. Police are required to send three summons to a person before moving court. We have summoned them again on next Friday for the same purpose. If Nain appears, we will ask him about the whereabouts of Vipassana, as she has been missing for over a year,” he added. “During interrogation, Ram Rahim has put the entire blame on the dera management. The questioning of Vipassana, who is a top official of the dera’s administration block, will lead to more evidence,” said an official. On November 8, the SIT had asked 114 questions from the dera head during his seven-hour grilling at the Sunaria Jail in Rohtak. Following this, the SIT had submitted a 65-page status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 12. An interrogation report, including a copy of the questionnaire as well as replies of Ram Rahim, were also filed along with the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-sacrilege-case-dera-sacha-sauda-admn-head-vipassana-vice-head-nain-fail-to-appear-before-sit-101637932306339.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Constitution not being followed with honesty, says BSP chief Mayawati as party skips official event||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati said on Friday the Centre does not have “any moral right” to celebrate Constitution Day and wondered if all that is laid down in it is being followed by the central and state governments.Mayawati’s statements came hours after her party joined the opposition on Friday to boycott the Constitution Day celebrations at Parliament.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the Centre and state governments need to review whether they are following the Constitution with honesty and integrity.26-11-2021-BSP PRESS NOTE pic.twitter.com/XU5hNmxlyq“On the occasion of 'Constitution Day, the Central and all the state governments should do a thorough review whether they are following the Indian Constitution with full honesty and integrity. That is, it is clear that they are not doing it. That's why our party today has not participated in this programme by the central and state governments,” Mayawati said.She also said that benefits of reservations in education and government jobs as enshrined in the Constitution have not reached the intended sections of society. This, she said, is “sad and concerning” for the people and also for her party.Also read | On 1 year of farmers’ protests, Priyanka Gandhi hails ‘unshakable satyagraha’“Is the Constitution being followed in the ideal way by the central and state governments? Such governments do not have any moral right to celebrate Constitution Day. Rather such governments should apologise to these sections of people on this occasion and urgently work towards correcting this shortcoming,” the former chief minister said.She further spoke about the Constitution Day coinciding with the occasion of one year of farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws and urged the Centre to accept the other demands of the farmers.While the Union government has decided to repeal the three laws following a year-long protest, farmers have demanded additional guarantees from the Centre, especially a law on minimum support price (MSP).“One year of the farmers' movement has also been completed in the country. The central government has withdrawn their three agricultural laws, which is a very late step. But there are many other important demands of the farmers, which must also be accepted by the central government,” she added.President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the Constitution Day event in Parliament on the day even as key opposition leaders skipped the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/constitution-not-being-followed-with-honesty-says-bsp-chief-mayawati-as-party-skips-official-event-101637928443779.html
26-11-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: November 26-December 2||Virtual Salon: Stories from the studiosJoin the Goethe-Institut Pune and Alliance Française de Pune for a chat with Prakash Magdum, director, National Film Archive of India and Sonam Lodhi, pianist.Registration mandatory on a first-come, first-served basis via linktr.ee/goethepuneWhen: Friday, November 26; 5pm Where: OnlineDrum O Fun! Play drums, djembe or any rhythm instrument! No experience of rhythm is needed just a smile on your face and enjoy playing a rhythm with folks.Entry fee: ₹300-Rs500To register go to: https://www.facebook.com/groups/1642691222556854/When: Friday, November 26; 5pm- 7pmCooking classes Reema’s Swad cooking classes teach vegetarian and eggless plum cakes, cookies, ginger bread and decorations.To register call 8939566195 When: Friday, November 26; 11am-2pmWhere: OnlineAbacus competitionLearn Indian Abacus online to improve the educational growth of your child.To register call 9444952532 or email admin@indianabacus.comWhen: Friday, November 26,7am to 6:30pmWhere: OnlineHigh Big Gigs: featuring F16’sExperience an alternative band hailing from Chennai, with music that echoes melancholia, and grapples with the mundanity of everyday life. The famous F16s are taking centre stage this Friday Night with beat-driven yet innately melodic alternative Indie and Dance PunkWhen: Friday, November 26; 8pm Where: High Spirits, Koregaon park Is God a Taoist? – the stage performanceWritten by Raymond Smullyan and directed by Vidyanidhee Vanarase, “Is God a Taoist?” is a dialogue between ‘God’ and ‘a mortal’. It is a series of ideas that treats a wide variety of subjects about life, free will, freedom and responsibilities. When: Sunday, November 28; 6:00 pm to 7:00 pmWhere: Raah - Literacy & Cultural Centre, 730, 7th & 8th floor, Marvel Vista, Lullanagar Coffee essence workshop - meditative painting Coffee Essence Workshop is basically coffee painting. Compositions can be made with just coffee and water on cartridge sheets with paintbrushes. The intriguing factor in this art form is how a simple coffee concoction is used to derive different tones get various patterns in place and finally it sums up into an art work.Fees: Rs1,500 per headTo register: call 8758557238. When: Sunday, November 28; 3:30pm to 6:30pm Where: OnlineSpotlight sessions: Open micJoin us on any of our two events happening over this weekend. Humble Discoveries are a team of artists and creators aspiring to build a global community where genuine talent can be discovered nurtured and promoted. To register call +91 8369261833 When: Sunday, November 28; 8pm to 10pmWhere: OnlineTribute to AC/DC & Guns N Roses by 2BlueTribute nights are back and High Spirits has a Guns’n’Roses and AC/DC tribute happening to make sure you have ended your weekend on the perfect note, with none other than 2Blue.When: Sunday, November 28; 8pm onwardWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon parkDa High Cookout featuring DJ Sa DJ SA is none other than India’s premier hip hop/trap DJ, voted India’s best Hip-Hop DJ at the inaugral VH1 MyFav Awards in the past. Having a key role in promoting Hip Hop/Trap music, Dj SA can be seen performing regularly at clubs all around the country, also opening for the likes of Akon, Charmillionaire, Kardinal Ofishall, Sean Kingston, and DJ Green Lantern. When: Sunday, November 28; 1:30pmWhere: High Spirtis, Koregaon park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-november-26-december-2-101637925284875.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: How software colours the social dynamics of behaviour||Darkness falls across the landThe midnight hour is close at handCreatures crawl in search of bloodTo terrorise y’all’s neighbourhoodAnd whosoever shall be foundWithout the soul for getting downMust stand and face the hounds of hellAnd rot inside a corpse’s shell...Last week this Rod Temperton lyric (immortalised by the voice of Vincent Price) in Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” started playing itself in my head - in auto-repeat - as I switched on my work computer, waited for updates to be installed and then found dark theme magically appear on my Microsoft Outlook. I like dark theme, except when I don’t. And there’s a science behind it.I am the kind that sets preferences and then doesn’t fiddle with anything since I like to focus on my work and not on prettying up my workplace, interface or surroundings or ‘personalising’ anything. To be precise, once I have set a preference, I won’t revisit it at all because it has nothing to do with my efficiency. Till the software decides to affect my efficiency by overriding my preferences.So, what’s the science behind my preference setting? I evaluate designs in stress-test mode, especially colour schemes on interfaces. This is because an interface is something that one stares at for long hours across months and it has a significant impact on our feelings and psychology which in turn has an impact on our moods which in turn affects performance in terms of quality and timelines.Historically, in the device space, there were light-on-dark colour schemes on screens because of how computer screens evolved (from cathode-ray oscilloscopes and oscillographs). Dark-on-light colour schemes emerged when word processors were developed to give the ink-on-paper feel. My experience with computers started sometime in the early 1980s and till the mid-1990s, I was primarily working with green or off-white coloured text on black backgrounds. If you have seen Matrix, you’ll understand why the classic green text falling on a black screen is a comfort. But am also very comfortable with the black and dark colour on a white background that emerged as normal from the mid-1990s till now.What I can’t stand is badly designed colour schemes on interfaces or themes. What’s a badly designed colour scheme? One that doesn’t take into account what happens when one is staring at the colour scheme beyond 15- 20 minutes and one that doesn’t account for the impact of the colour choices on all the existing visual assets in a digital workspace and one that doesn’t account for the psychological impact of all this. It usually takes a few minutes for me to get upset with a unilateral change but the underlying stress factor is the bad design which will lead me to redo my entire digital workspace.I use dark theme as a preference on my Apple devices and that’s because Apple doesn’t release nor allow any developer to release any design changes unless it meets stringent standards. I use light themes on non-Apple ecosystems because the design standards are different and they require me to do the work (waste my time) to adjust my environment. In my experience, Apple seems to respect my time and so goes that extra mile to ensure that dark or light colour schemes do not affect my productivity due to the lack of adequate stress testing on their part. From a data perspective, I can switch from light to dark theme on an Apple device as a matter of preference at any given moment without hurting my eyes or my mood and just get on with my work. On non-Apple devices, it’s absolute stress because the particular blue on the particular dark grey isn’t thought through and starts hurting the eye or it doesn’t go with my corporate signature line colours which are affected because of the theme change. And I think this is because device manufacturers and software companies tend to be more democratic in their responsibilities and leave the choice to users.Dark themes use less energy and that’s why they are a better-informed choice (an informed choice is different from a personal preference). But what I expect from technology and software companies is that they draw the lines of what are their responsibilities and what are mine. I am paying for and using their productivity software to produce work not for me to spend my time adjusting their product.To illustrate choice and preference, I love Microsoft Office software (especially PowerPoint), but in the Apple ecosystem instead of in the HP or Dell ecosystem with Windows environment. (FYI: I use Office in all three environments regularly, so I can state this as a comparative analysis). The same applies to games and apps.But thankfully, all is well that ended well. For now. Microsoft on Dell allows me to change my preference which is what I did after 15 minutes of living with their dark theme. What I don’t understand is why they decided to install dark theme as default and make me change my preference? I would rather prefer they inform me about the option, leave it to me to take a tour and then change my preference instead of changing it for me. I voluntarily change to an energy-saving dark theme on most software if the dark theme design quality is going to lead me to be efficient. If it doesn’t, I will fight it till it is mandated by law because I spend more time doing my work on badly designed digital environments which means I use as much if not more energy as I would on a dark-on-light theme.As we go deeper and deeper digital, tech and software companies will lead the way in changing social behaviour, since they have the deepest reach. While they are leading such change, I hope they do not start implementing universal defaults too frequently without adequately researching adverse effects on digital habits on social and psychological behaviour and performance and related impacts. We may not have much choice in expensive ideal ecosystems which design responsibly, but there is no dearth of choice in badly designed alternatives. And increasing market share in that kind of democratic setup will be nothing short of facing the hounds of hell - for consumers and sellers.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-how-software-colours-the-social-dynamics-of-behaviour-101637924984372.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana education department faces flak for snubbing teachers, delay in NCERT textbooks||Additional deputy commissioner (ADC, general) Rahul Chaba and member of the Sikhya Sudhar Committee on Thursday grilled officials of the district education department for reprimanding teachers who voiced their concerns over students of some government school students not receiving their NCERT textbooks with just 17 days left for their board exams.In the previous meeting held in October, ADC Chaba and members of the committee had pulled up officials of the district education department for not providing textbooks to all students enrolled with government schools in the district.A teacher from Kot Mangal Government High School, who had raised the issue, was summoned by the officials on November 16. According to the teacher, a senior education officer called the school head and snubbed her over the same issue.Jatinder Pal Singh Saluja, a member of the Sikhya Sudhar Committee, raised the issue in the meeting on Thursday, stating that if the education officials reprimand teachers for voicing the issues concerning the welfare of the students, the purpose of conducting monthly meetings will be defeated.“Instead of providing books to the students, the senior officials in the education department chose to target the teacher, which is disappointing. What is the purpose of the meeting when they don’t want to sincerely work for the welfare of the students,” said Saluja.In the last meeting, the issue related to chlorination of water for the students was also raised.On the morning before the meeting on Thursday, officials from the education department called the head of Kot Mangal High school and insisted that she submit in writing that chlorination was carried out in the school, following the instructions from the education department.“We refused to give it in writing, since no chlorination was carried out at the school. They asked us to submit the report, but why should we submit the fake report. They were trying to save their skin. I urge all the school heads to not make any fake report under pressure from the officials, as our job is to work for the welfare of the students,” said Sukhdarshan Singh, teacher at the school.Commenting on the issue, ADC Rahul said, “I have directed the officials to act on the issues in a time-bound manner and keep the health department in the loop for chlorination of water in schools for the students. I appreciate the sincere and active efforts of the public representatives who highlight such serious issues for the welfare of the students”. However, the education department on Thursday delivered the NCERT textbooks to the students of the government High School, Kot Mangal.Meanwhile, a teacher of a government high school said that the education department didn’t provide books to all the schools, but only distributed textbooks to the schools where teachers voiced the issue to the higher authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-education-department-faces-flak-for-snubbing-teachers-delay-in-ncerttextbooks-101637922944147.html
26-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Cabinet rejig seen as attempt to woo traditional Congress voters||The reshuffle in Rajasthan’s council of ministers appears to be in line with the Congress’s renewed focus on its traditional core vote bank of Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) as well as women and youngsters. The nine SC and ST ministers in chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s Cabinet have also been given important portfolios. The number of women in it has been increased from one to three.The reshuffle in Rajasthan followed the elevation of Charanjeet Singh Channi, a Dalit, as Punjab’s chief minister, and the Congress’s announcement for a quota in tickets for women in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.Gehlot inducted five ministers ST ministers Mahendrajit Singh Malviya, Ramesh Meena, Parsadi Lal Meena, Murari Lal Meena, and Arjun Bamaniya. The first three have been given Cabinet berths. Four SC lawmakers Govind Ram Meghwal, Mamta Bhupesh, Tikaram Juli, and Bhajan Lal Jatav were also made Cabinet ministers. Meghwal is a new entrant while the remaining three were promoted.A Congress leader said this rejig was done in view of the 2023 assembly elections with a special focus on Dalits, ST, and women. ST account for 12% and SC 18% of Rajasthan’s population.Also Read: 50 bird flu deaths reported from Sambhar lake after Jodhpur and PaliAll five new Dalit Cabinet ministers are from eastern Rajasthan, which borders Uttar Pradesh. Of the 58 assembly seats in eastern Rajasthan (Bharatpur, Dholpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Alwar districts), around 40 seats are with the Congress.Two women--Shakuntla Rawat and Mamta Bhupesh-- were given Cabinet ranks while Zahida Khan was made a junior minister. The women’s representation in the Cabinet is now 10%. There are 27 women in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. The Congress has 15 women lawmakers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 10.State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara said the party has always focused on SC, ST, Other Backward Classes, minorities, women, and youths and worked to bring them into the mainstream. “The Cabinet rejig too focused on these factors. It is probably for the first time that such a high representation of women, SC and ST has been ensured.”Opposition BJP leader Rajendra Rathore said Congress conducted a survey in which it found its SC votes in all states were slipping away. “So attempts are being made to hold them back. But the Congress will not succeed as its government has stalled beneficiary schemes benefitting the poor.”Political analyst Manish Godha said SC and ST have traditionally been Congress’s core vote banks and the Congress has given them priority in the reshuffle two years before the polls. “The state government has sent a timely message to these communities through this rejig. Had it made this decision late, it would have appeared to be election-oriented.” Godha said Congress is making efforts to woo its traditional vote bank citing Channi’s elevation and ticket quota in Uttar Pradesh. “The Cabinet rejig seems to be a mix of increasing Dalit, women, and youth participation,” he said. He added the exercise was to send a message to voters also in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-seen-as-attempt-to-woo-traditional-congress-voters-101637922284474.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||As Param Bir Singh returns to Mumbai, minister says further action will be decided soon||A day after ‘absconding’ former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh returned to Mumbai to appear before the crime branch in an extortion case, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said a further action against the officer will be taken after consulting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and in accordance with state's police service rules.“Permissible action will be taken as per the police service rules. Further decisions will be taken after speaking to the CM,” news agency ANI quoted Patil as telling reporters.Singh, declared an absconder by a court, was questioned by crime branch officials in an extortion case registered against him on Thursday. Singh remained incommunicado for months, leading to rumours that he had fled the country, before finally surfacing in Chandigarh earlier this week. He had claimed threat to his life in Maharashtra following which the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest.Also read | Param Bir arrives in Mumbai to join probeThe former top police officer is facing charges in five extortion cases in Maharashtra, including two in Thane city. He was earlier this month declared a "proclaimed offender" as summons issued on him went unanswered.The IPS officer, who is currently posted as the director general of home guards in Maharashtra, has not reported to work since May following his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner and his subsequent allegations of corruption against then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Singh was shunted out after police officer Sachin Waze was arrested in a case of an explosives-laden SUV being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia' and the subsequent suspicious death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-param-bir-singh-returns-to-mumbai-minister-says-further-action-will-decided-soon-101637919976476.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||‘As early as possible, by March’: Narayan Rane says BJP will be in power in Maharashtra||Union minister Narayan Rane has said that Maharashtra would have a new, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government by March next year, adding that things should be kept ‘secret’ to trigger the collapse of an incumbent government.“As early as possible, by March, the BJP will come to power in Maharashtra,” news agency ANI quoted Rane as saying, in Jaipur, on Thursday.When questioned by media persons how he can be so sure, the BJP leader said, “There are certain things that I cannot reveal. If a government is to be removed or a new one is to be formed, then few things should be kept secret.” #WATCH | "Change will be seen in Maharashtra very soon. The change will be seen by March. To form a government, to break a govt, some things have to be kept secret," Union Minister Narayan Rane in Jaipur (25.11) pic.twitter.com/GAlDtDr1xOThe ruling MVA coalition in Maharashtra comprises the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. Now-former allies, the BJP and Sena, which governed the western state together between 2014 and 2019, won a re-election two years ago. However, difference over several issues, including who gets the chief minister’s chair, led to a split between the two, with the Uddhav Thackeray-led party joining hands with the NCP and the Congress.While Thackeray heads the alliance as the chief minister, the BJP is still the single-largest as well as principal opposition party in Maharashtra. Devendra Fadnavis, Thackeray’s predecessor, is the Leader of Opposition.The Aghadi allies have frequently accused the BJP of trying to bring down their government though they also assert that the ruling dispensation will complete its full five-year term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-early-as-possible-by-march-narayan-rane-says-bjp-will-be-in-power-in-maharashtra-101637917144707.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||'Will take necessary measures to protect people': Delhi CM on new Covid variant||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday he has requested experts to suggest necessary steps after the discovery of the new variant of coronavirus, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will take all the necessary measures to protect the Capital’s residents.Kejriwal said on Twitter the experts have been requested to make a presentation to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on the new variant, which has been identified as B.1.1.529, by Monday, November 29.Also Read| Frequent mutations, rapid spread: New Covid variant found in South Africa“In view of the threat from new Covid variant from African countries, we have requested experts to make a presentation to DDMA on Monday and suggest what steps we should take. We will take all steps necessary to protect you and your family,” Kejriwal tweeted.The B.1.1.529 variant of Covid-19 has currently been detected not just in South Africa, but also in Botswana and Hong Kong. It has been reported that the variant has a higher number of mutations and it has been spreading very quickly.In view of the threat from new COVID variant from African countries, we have requested experts to make a presentation to DDMA on Mon and suggest what steps we shud take. We will take all steps necessary to protect u and ur familyOn Thursday, the Union health ministry ordered all states and Union territories to start rigorous screening and testing of passengers arriving from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana.And on Friday, people familiar with the development told news agency ANI that no case of the variant has been reported in India so far.Also Read| No case of new Covid variant in India so far: ReportThe United Kingdom has temporarily suspended flights from six African countries including South Africa. And, so has Israel.The World Health Organization (WHO) is expected to hold a meeting on Friday to discuss the new coronavirus variant. "Early analysis shows that this variant has a large number of mutations that require and will undergo further study," the WHO earlier said.Meanwhile, Delhi has reported more than 1.44 million infections of Covid-19, which include 1,415,380 recoveries, 25,095 deaths and 309 active cases. On Friday, the national capital reported 30 Covid-19 cases and 32 recoveries. No fresh deaths were reported due to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-take-necessary-measures-to-protect-people-delhi-cm-on-new-covid-variant-101637912021605.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||UP now one of the most investor friendly states in India, says CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath Friday lauded the achievements of his government in the fields of industrialisation and financial growth and claimed that improvement in law and order and reforms have helped the state scale up to the number two position in the country in the last five years.Uttar Pradesh is now one of the most investor friendly states in the country, where an investor has no longer to worry either about his personal safety and security or that of his investments, he said at a prgramme here.“The change that took place in Uttar Pradesh in the last five years is clearly visible on the ground. Factors such as improvement in law and order situation, better reforms and ease of doing business have helped the state attain a leading position as an investor friendly destination and to drive the country's economy,” he said addressing the annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce virtually.During 2015-16 Uttar Pradesh was in the sixth position in the country in terms of the financial system parameters. It has jumped to the "second or third positions" in the last five years, he said.Adityanath had assumed office in March 2017 and election to the most populous state of the country is due next year. “In terms of implementation of central schemes, Uttar Pradesh was earlier either in the 25th or 30th position. Now in respect of at least 44 central schemes, it is in the number one position. Earlier, we had only two expressways, but now we have five new ones. Uttar Pradesh will soon be the only state in the country with five international airports,” he said.The chief minister also claimed that the state had set a new export record in the MSME sector.“Uttar Pradesh had recorded exports in MSME sector worth 1.31 lakh crore. In terms of logistics, we are now in sixth place in the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-now-one-of-the-most-investor-friendly-states-in-india-says-cm-adityanath-101637911237996.html
26-11-2021||Ranchi||Suspected Maoists damage under-construction police station in Jharkhand||Suspected Maoists attacked and partially damaged an under-construction police station at Kurumgarh in Jharkhand’s Vimla district on Thursday night, a police officer said on Friday.“No one was hurt in the incident which happened around midnight. The building has been partially damaged. It is a new building being constructed of the Kurumgarh police station at a new location which is around three kilometers from its current location,” said A V Homkar, the inspector general (operations) of the Jharkhand Police.The attack came as a three-day bandh called by Maoists across four states from November 23 to 25 ended.Suspected Maoists earlier blew up rail tracks in the Latehar and West Singhbhum districts of the state, disrupting traffic for several hours during the one-day Bharat Bandh on November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/suspected-maoists-damage-under-construction-police-station-in-jharkhand-101637908780582.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir appears before Thane cops to record statement in extortion case||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Friday arrived at a police station in Thane to record his statement in an extortion case registered against him there. Businessman Ketan Tanna, 54, in July accused Singh, deputy police commissioner Deepak Devraj, assistant police commissioner NT Kadam, retired police officer Pradeep Sharma, senior police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire, and gangster Ravi Pujari of extorting crores from his and his friend Sonu Jalan. Jalan was arrested in connection with a betting racket in 2018.Last month, the Thane Sessions Court issued a non-bailable warrant against Singh in connection with the case.A police officer with the Thane Police said Singh arrived at the police station around 10.30am on Friday and that his statement was being recorded.Also Read: Mumbai Police looking for Dawood Ibrahim’s aide Riyaz BhatiSingh appeared before the Mumbai Police Crime Branch on Thursday three days after the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest. He resurfaced in Chandigarh on Wednesday and later arrived in Mumbai, where he was interrogated in connection with another extortion case.Singh was incommunicado for months, fuelling rumours that he had fled the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-appears-before-thane-cops-to-record-statement-in-extortion-case-101637908420074.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks clarity from Centre on need for booster shots of Covid-19 vaccine||The Delhi high court has sought a categorical reply from the Centre on the necessity of Covid-19 vaccine’s booster doses for fully vaccinated people citing increasing advocacy for them in western countries.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh on Thursday wondered how the West is encouraging boosters when the Indian government was not permitting even those who voluntarily want to take them to do so. “There have been contrary opinions about the booster. On one hand, we heard Dr [Randeep] Guleria [of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi] saying that there is no scientific basis for the booster dose...” The bench cited interaction with a doctor backing the booster shots. “And we may again face an onslaught. This is a very serious issue that needs to be looked into.”The bench said countries such as the US are not only permitting but also advocating the use of booster doses. “As per a news report, even Israel is also promoting the use of booster doses.”Also Read: Europe rethinks booster shot policy as Covid cases hit recordsThe court said booster doses are an expensive proposition, which might be a reason why they are not being considered. “But then we do not want to land up in a situation that we are overtly conservative in this and we land up in a situation like the second (Covid-19) wave. We may lose the advantage of all these vaccinations.” The court asked the Centre to file an affidavit over booster doses and the timeline within which they are proposed to be rolled out if necessary.The bench was hearing pleas, including that of lawyer Rakesh Malhotra for better facilities to tackle Covid-19. It took note of newspaper reports and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao’s submission that a large number of vaccines would be wasted as they are reaching the expiry date.“...particularly those falling in the old age bracket and those suffering from other diseases are anxious whether they require a booster dose. There are also reports that large numbers of vaccine doses are lying unused and whose shelf life will expire,” the court said.Anurag Ahluwalia, who appeared for the Centre, said he would take instructions and file an affidavit. The court posted the matter for hearing on December 14.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, asked the Centre to give a plan or decide on the booster doses as most of the people have taken double doses.The court also sought to know the status of vaccinating people aged below 18. Ahluwalia said that approvals have been given for vaccines and clinical trials were going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-clarity-from-centre-on-need-for-booster-shots-of-covid-19-vaccine-101637907640000.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt school in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur closed after 13 students test positive for Covid-19||The government school at Palahar in Talwara block of Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district was shut down on Thursday after 13 students tested positive for Covid-19. All infected students are aged 16 years or below. Also read: India’s daily Covid tally cross 10,000-mark again; active cases up by 193Alarmed at the resurgence of Covid cases, the health department has stepped up sampling and ordered strict adherence to safety protocols. Recently, a government school in Hoshiarpur city was closed as three students tested positive for coronavirus infection. District epidemiologist DP Singh said that samples of all possible contacts of the infected students were being taken and the school had been shut for 10 days. The school authorities said that the entire campus had been sanitised. They, however, admitted that the mask-wearing norm was not being followed strictly. Sources in the health department said that sampling for coronavirus was negligible. Random sampling in schools was done on the emergence of a positive case, they said. Non-vaccination of children could be the cause for spread of the infection, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-school-in-punjab-s-hoshiarpur-closed-after-13-students-test-positive-for-covid19-101637907100482.html
26-11-2021||Patna||‘You took this oath as well...’: Tejashwi Yadav's swipe at Nitish Kumar over 'pledge' against liquor consumption||On a day when people of Bihar are likely to take a ‘pledge’ against alcohol consumption, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav took a swipe at chief minister Nitish Kumar, reminding him of another ‘pledge’ that the latter took in 2015, of not joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | Bihar to take pledge against alcohol today: CM Nitish Kumar“You took this oath as well,” Yadav’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi read. Bihar’s Leader of opposition shared with his tweet a media clipping from March 2015, which quoted the Janata Dal (United) leader as saying that he would die but not ally with the BJP again. एक शपथ यह भी थी! pic.twitter.com/XosQniAjS1Kumar’s JD(U) exited the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2013. In the 2015 Bihar assembly elections, arch-rivals JD(U) and RJD came together to form the Mahagathbandhan, and defeated the NDA. While Nitish Kumar became the alliance’s chief minister, Tejashwi Yadav was appointed as the deputy CM.However, in 2017, the alliance crumbled over corruption allegations against the RJD leader. Nitish once again joined hands with the BJP, thus continuing in his chair. Then, in last year’s assembly polls, the Kumar-led NDA registered a narrow win over the Yadav-led Mahagathbandhan.Now on opposite sides, the two politicians have taken frequent jibes at each other. Friday’s tweet by Yadav comes in the backdrop of several hooch tragedies in Bihar in recent days, in which more than three dozen people have lost their lives. The incidents took place despite a ban on consumption of alcohol in the state, which came into effect on April 1, 2016, when the Mahagathbandhan was in power.Also Read | Remember your pledge, says Nitish Kumar in a counterattack on Tejashwi YadavEarlier this month, the chief minister ruled out a review of the liquor law, saying that he hardly cares about what others says about the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/you-took-this-oath-as-well-tejashwi-yadav-s-swipe-at-nitish-kumar-over-pledge-against-liquor-consumption-101637904174387.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest taught us how to fight for our rights with patience: Kejriwal||On the first anniversary of the farmers’ protest, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said their struggle against three contentious farm laws enacted last year has taught people how to fight for one’s rights with patience. Lauding the year-long struggle, which forced the Centre to announce the repeal of the laws, Kejriwal tweeted, “The farmers’ movement has completed one year today. This historical movement has faced a lot of conspiracies apart from [extreme] weather. The farmers have taught us how to fight for our rights with patience. I salute the courage, spirit and sacrifice of our farmers.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced last week the government will repeal the laws. Farmers have been protesting against the laws on Delhi’s borders.Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party, which emerged as a major political force in Punjab in 2017, has been supporting the farmers’ agitation, which began in the northern state.Also Read: Cabinet gives nod for repeal of farm lawsLast week, Kejriwal called the Centre’s decision to repeal the three a “victory of democracy”. “It is a golden day in India’s history. It is like Independence Day and Republic Day. The central government had to bow down before the farmers’ movement and repeal all three black farm laws. This is not just a win for the farmers; it is the victory of democracy. The farmers have made every government realise that in a democracy, they have to listen to the people. Governments have to bow down to the people. Arrogance would not work,” Kejriwal said on November 23, hours after Modi’s surprise announcement.Kejriwal visited the farmer protest site at the Singhu border on December 7 last year to review the arrangements made there. On December 8, when the protesting farmers called for a Bharat Bandh, Kejriwal said he wanted to visit Singhu but was put under “house arrest”. On December 27, he visited Singhu again to participate in a cultural event of the Delhi government. In February, he addressed a farmer gathering in Meerut. Kejriwal criticised the Centre after a convoy of cars, including one belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra, ran over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The violence that the mowing down of the farmers triggered left eight people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-taught-us-how-to-fight-for-our-rights-with-patience-kejriwal-101637904039462.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality plunges to ‘severe’ category; shallow fog likely today||New Delhi’s air quality plunged to the “severe” category on Friday morning with data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showing an hourly air quality index (AQI) reading of 403 at 7am. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 400.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.On the weather front, New Delhi is likely to see shallow fog on Friday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, while the minimum temperature was expected to 11 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in the Capital on Friday was likely to reach 28 degrees Celsius.On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 27.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while the lowest was 9.7 degrees Celsius.Also Read: Gurugram: Schools to reopen today even as IMD forecasts ‘very poor’ airOn Thursday, the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, “The AQI today indicates ‘very poor’ category. Local surface winds are relatively low for the next three days that reduces dispersion of pollutants leading to deterioration of air quality, but within the ‘upper end of very poor’ category for the next three days.”SAFAR added, “On November 29, local surface winds are likely to increase resulting in an improvement in the air quality… Local emissions and weather are likely to be the dominant factors controlling air quality. The effective fire count is 219 and its share in New Delhi’s PM2.5 is 6%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-plunges-to-severe-category-shallow-fog-likely-today-101637895278708.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||26/11: Timeline of Mumbai's night of terror||Friday marks 13 years since the November 26, 2008, terror attacks in Mumbai, carried out by 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in the country's financial capital. The terrorists targeted various crowded locations across the city, including the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, Hotel Trident, Nariman House, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital, among others. Also Read | 26/11: The day terror hit usTotal 166 people, including security personnel, lost their lives, while nine of the terrorists were gunned down by the National Security Guard (NSG) and Mumbai Police. Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist captured alive, was convicted and sentenced to death. Kasab was hanged on November 21, 2012, five days before the fourth anniversary of the attacks, which lasted for four days.Here's a brief sequence of events:November 26: The 10 Lashkar terrorists arrive in Mumbai from Karachi on speedboats. Late evening, first reports begin streaming in from the metropolis. Though the initial reports state that a ‘gang war’ is going on, it soon becomes clear that this is a terrorist attack. Also Read | 13 years since 26/11, Pakistan yet to show sincerity in delivering justiceFour of the terrorists enter the Taj, two enter the Trident, while two others enter the Nariman House. The remaining two, including Kasab, open fire at the CSMT, killing 58 people and injuring more than 100. Kasab and his partner, Ismail Khan, then move towards the Cama Hospital. On the way, they ambush and kill six police officials, including then Mumbai Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Vijay Salaskar and Ashok Kamte.Also Read | RA&W chief offered to resign for failure of prevent 26/11 attackThe duo then flee in the officers' jeep but are intercepted by the Mumbai Police. In the ensuing scuffle, Khan is killed while Kasab is arrested. Constable Tukaram Ombale is killed in action.November 27: Army soldiers and Marine commandos surround the hostage sites--the Taj, Trident and Nariman House. The elite NSG, deployed to storm the sites, launch Operation Black Tornado.November 28: Commandos finish the operation at the Trident, as well as Nariman House. November 29: The attacks come to an end with the NSG securing the Taj.The attacks led to a spate of resignations, with then Union home minister Shivraj Patil and Maharashtra chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, among others, stepping down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2611-a-timeline-of-mumbai-s-night-of-terror-101637891606318.html
26-11-2021||Patna||Bihar to take pledge against alcohol today: CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced that people of the state including government employees would take a pledge on November 26 that they would not consume liquor.Speaking to media in Patna today, Kumar said on Monday, "The liquor ban is being strictly implemented in the state. The directions have also been issued not to spare the violators."Justifying the liquor ban at wedding ceremonies, Kumar said that people who are not involved in liquor consumption should not worry about the police raids."Police have received complaints that liquor is served at some wedding functions. When the police get any such input, they take action. Those who are not involved should not worry," Kumar said.Meanwhile, the opposition parties hit out at the Bihar government after the state police conducted searches at a wedding hall in Patna and even allegedly entered the bride's room without any women constable in search of liquor.RJD leader Mritunjay Tiwari said that the state government and police do not have any right to trouble the common people."The government should implement the law properly. Entering the bride's room without any woman constable is disrespectful. I want to ask from where liquor is coming in the state despite being banned since 2016," Tiwari added.Last week, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar directed the state officials to take strict action against the government employees caught in an instance related to violation of liquor ban, said Chaitanya Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Home).Nitish Kumar had also said that the crime rate in Bihar has come down after the liquor ban and he is against liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-take-pledge-against-alcohol-today-cm-nitish-kumar-101637884588349.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Open Ladies Amateur Golf tourney: Diya clinches championship bowl||Diya Brar grabbed corners and clinched championship bowl with the gross score of 234, followed by Sakshi Mehta 238 and Mehar Nijjer 239 on the final day of the 27th Punjab Open Ladies Amateur Golf Championship 2021 at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Thursday. Sonu Kalkat won silver salver with the nett score of 215. President of the golf club gave away the prizes.In the silver division, Anjali Nangal won with the gross score of 282 and Archana Kumar was the runner up with a score of 286. Lakhi Swain with a a score of 218 was the nett winner.In the bronze division, Navina Kahai maintained her lead and won the bronze plate with a score of 312, Inder Gill was declared runner up (326) and Baljinder Mangat won the nett prize. Junior shield was bagged by Mehar Nijjer with a score of 157 and Diya Brar (159) was the runner up.Shiraz Singh (170) won the Neelu Chopra Trophy and nett winner was Anjali Nagpal (147).Anjali Nagpal bagged the super senior challenge cup with the gross score of 187. She was also declared the nett winner (147).The winner of the overall Neelu Chopra Cup was Sonu Kalkat (215).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-open-ladies-amateur-golf-tourney-diya-clinches-championship-bowl-101637875053276.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Nursery admissions: Chandigarh education department holds meeting with private school heads||Process of admission to nursery and entry-level classes for the academic session 2022-2023 is set to start soon in Chandigarh regarding which, the UT education department on Thursday held a meeting with the principals of various private schools at the Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 18 here. As per one of the school principals who attended the meeting, schools have been asked to upload all details regarding admission on their websites by December 6. The admission process will start after that on the same pattern as previous years. District education officer Prabhjot Kaur said, “Detailed orders have yet to be issued. We have asked schools to initiate the process and rest we have left it to schools to conduct the admissions in a dual manner so that Covid protocols are followed.”There are about 80 private recognised schools in the city where the process will be followed. Last year, the admission process had started on December 3 and went on till December 16 while the final list was displayed on February 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nursery-admissions-chandigarh-education-department-holds-meeting-with-private-school-heads-101637874933861.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mining without environmental clearance: HC notice to Punjab, Centre on plea seeking action against officials||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from Punjab government and the Centre on a plea alleging that a mining contract was awarded to a private person in Ropar without getting environmental clearance. The high court bench comprising justice MSR Rao and justice Jasjit Singh Bedi has sought a response by December 17. The plea demands that Centre directs Punjab government to initiate action against the department officials concerned for allowing mining through a contract awarded in 2019, even though no environmental clearance was given for the site in question. The plea further presses for an enquiry conducted by an Independent Agency in view of the state’s connivance with the private contractor. It also demands that the contract be declared illegal. The plea was filed by Bachittar Singh, who runs a stone crushing unit in Ropar, claiming that he is directly aggrieved by the government’s action as he has no option but to buy raw material from him even as mining is being carried out illegally. The plea states that a March 2020 report from a chief judicial magistrate established the fact that the contractor in question has put up illegal check nakas. The high court ordered a preliminary probe, which was carried out by the Central Bureau of Investigation. But with the Punjab government promising action, no further proceedings were ordered by the court. The plea, however, cited the Pollution Control Board’s recent objections on the present site, saying that it proved that no environmental clearance was given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mining-without-environmental-clearance-hc-notice-to-punjab-centre-on-plea-seeking-action-against-officials-101637874814301.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting teachers face lathicharge, water cannons in Mohali||Members of the Computer Teachers’ Union, Punjab were met with lathi-charge and water cannons as they started marching towards Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence for a gherao on Thursday, to press for the demands. Police stopped the protesting teachers near YPS roundabout in Mohali as they were about to enter Chandigarh and resorted to lathi-charge and use of water cannons to disperse the crowd. Some, including the union’s leader Gurdeep Singh, suffered injuries. The teachers, however, continued their sit-in on the road. Union president Varinder Bohra said, “The government is not fulfilling our demands even after repeated requests. Despite the recruitment of 375 teachers, they are not getting confirmation. The government is making false promises like former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-teachers-face-lathicharge-water-cannons-in-mohali-101637874693254.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s cycle manufacturers learn about safety protocols||The United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) organised a seminar on bicycle safety in association with Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) at its office in Gill road on Thursday.Members of Bicycle Research and Development Organization (BRADO) and Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) also participated in the seminar. The BIS team comprising scientists Mohammad Aquib, Niraj Kumar Mishra and Saurabh Verma and assistants Yograj and Sandeep Singh spoke about retro-reflective devices and how they play an important role in bicycle safety. They said that the BIS Certificate of Conformity (CoC) is mandatory for all bicycle manufacturers from January 2022 and discussed the process of filling the online application. Industrialists urged that application fees be reduced for small industry and also demanded an extension of the last date to apply for CoC.Genera secretary of UCPMA, Manjinder Sachdeva, said that more such seminars will be organised in the coming time to improve bicycle safety and the association will also remain in touch with BIS officials for improvements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-cycle-manufacturers-learn-about-safety-protocols-101637874517178.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man arrested with countrymade pistol||A 21-year-old man has been arrested with a countrymade pistol and live cartridges which he had procured to allegedly extort money from people, Chandigarh Police said on Thursday. Rahul Gupta of Mauli Complex runs a garments shop and had lost ₹18 lakh which he had invested in kitties, the police said. The accused, in order to recover losses, was looking for an opportunity to execute a robbery, the police said, adding that they are also probing if Gupta kept the weapon to threaten people who demand their invested money back. “The accused said that he got this weapon from Uttar Pradesh. We are questioning him for his exact motive behind keeping the weapon,” said Ranjit Singh, Sector-31 station house officer (SHO). “We are questioning him in connection with the recent robbery in Industrial Area and the subsequent firing at a home guard volunteer,” said a senior police official. Gupta was arrested by a patrolling team from Industrial Area’s Phase 2 on Wednesday night. The police said that on spotting their team, the accused hid behind the bushes. On frisking, a countrymade pistol and one live cartridge was recovered from his possession. A case under provisions of the Arms Act has been registered against Gupta, who was sent to one-day remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-arrested-with-countrymade-pistol-101637874453116.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Punjab CM wants killer curve on Airport Road to go||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has directed the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to find a solution to straighten out the deadly curve on the Airport Road near Mata Sundri gurdwara in Sector 70, officials said. As per a report, at least 100 accidents have occurred on the said stretch and 12 people have lost their lives ever since the road has been constructed. As per the officials privy to the matter, chief minister Channi has also approached Baba Balbir Singh, the chief of Budha Dal that runs the gurdwara, to chalk out a solution. The curve has been tagged as a ‘black spot’ considering the large number of accidents taking place there. At the time of the Airport Road construction, a portion of land was not released by the gurdwara set up by a particular sect head, forcing the government to build the road with an ‘S’ curve. However, Baba Balbir Singh said, “We have not got any such proposal from any authority. But once we get it, we will look into it.” Additional chief administrator of GMADA, Damanjit Singh Mann said, “We are planning to straighten out the curve, but the talks with the gurdwara authorities will be held at higher level.” Area councillor Sukhdev Singh Patwari had written a letter to GMADA, suggesting to allot land to the gurdwara authorities somewhere else. He even laid out a design for straightening of the road. According to the data provided by the Mohali police, the Airport Road has seen around 300 fatal accidents this year, at least 100 of which took place at this particular curve wherein 12 lives were lost. Former executive engineer NS Kalsi said it is possible to straighten the road by constructing a new stretch on government land in Sector 77, opposite to the existing curve. “When the road was being constructed, we had warned GMADA that the curve will prove fatal, but to no avail. Now, it is one of the most accident-prone spots in Mohali,” he added. In April 2019, Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija, after conducting a three-dimensional safety audit using drones, had revealed major flaws in the design of Airport Road, and stated in the report that it is not pedestrian and cyclist-friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-punjab-cm-wants-killer-curve-on-airport-road-to-go-101637874214154.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists raise concerns of exporters with Union minister||Raising concerns over problems being faced by exporters in availing benefits under Union government schemes due to rising prices of steel, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) submitted a memorandum with Union minister of state for commerce and industry Som Prakash at the office of Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Thursday.The industrialists also demanded that the Union government rollback the hike in goods and services tax (GST) on garments/textile, which has been increased from 5% to 12%.CICU general secretary Pankaj Sharma said that exporters are facing problems in availing grants or benefits under different schemes including Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) and Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP). Further, the rising cost of shipping is also taking a toll on the business.Unprecedented increase in prices of steel and untimely increase in the GST rate on garments notified by the union government will make the survival of exporters difficult in the international market, said Sharma, while adding that the minister has assured that the issues will be taken up at the government level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrials-raises-concerns-of-exporters-with-union-minister-101637874213020.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula protests: FIRs against anganwadi workers, vocational teachers||Panchkula police have registered two FIRs against anganwadi workers and vocational teachers who had staged protests in the city on Wednesday. The first case has been registered against seven anganwadi workers for obstructing the public way. The women who have been booked are Kunj Bhaat, Rajbala, Anupama, Usha Rani, Murti, Bimla Rathi and Manpreet. More than 1,000 protesters had marched towards the Housing Board, where they were stopped from proceeding further and asked by duty magistrate Vikram Singla and Kalka tehsildar to hand over to them the memorandum to be given to the Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the police said. On the insistence of the seven women leaders, they were taken to the CM’s residence, where they handed over the memorandum to the OSD to Khattar, who assured them that their demands will be looked into, the police said. But the protesters did not call off the agitation till late night and blocked the road for nine hours, the police stated. The second FIR was registered under sections 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC against vocational teachers, who were protesting at Sector 5. Besides blocking the traffic on the roads leading to Shiksha Sadan, they had also locked three gates of the office, due to which employees were stuck inside, the FIR mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-protests-firs-against-anganwadi-workers-vocational-teachers-101637874033186.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Mega job fair discussed during District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises’ council meet||Additional deputy commissioner (development) Amit Kumar Panchal conducted a meeting of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises’s (DBEE) governing council on Thursday. Punjab Youth Development Board chairman and council member Sukhwinder Singh Bindra was also present.During the meeting, issues related to the high-end job fair, which is going to be held from December 3 to December 10 were discussed.“The minimum annual package which will be offered to the candidates will be ₹2.40 lakh and above. Talks with private associations and companies are already underway and we are hopeful of securing handsome packages for the candidates,” said Navdeep Singh, deputy chief executive officer, DBEE.Bindra highlighted the issue of sports kits required by athletes in the district. He said that a few kits were distributed in schools and now they will be distributed in colleges in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mega-job-fair-discussed-during-district-bureau-of-employment-and-enterprises-council-meet-101637873977203.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||At 9, Chandigarh logs highest Covid cases in four months||As many as 18 new Covid cases were recorded across tricity on Thursday, one less than the Wednesday tally. Maximum nine cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by five from Mohali and four from Panchkula. It was on July 12 when Chandigarh reported nine cases. However, no Covid-related fatality was reported in the tricity on Thursday. So far in November, Mohali has reported three fatalities while no death has been witnessed in Chandigarh and Panchkula.Tricity’s active case tally also crossed 100-mark on Thursday with 115 infections. Forty-three patients are still infected in Mohali, 41 in Chandigarh, and 31 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has so far logged 65,430 Covid patients, of whom 64,569 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,928. Among these, 67,814 patients have recovered and 1,071 have succumbed. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,819 includes 30,409 recoveries and 379 casualties. 47 more infected with dengueAs many as 47 fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Thursday, with Mohali adding 28 cases alone to the count. Sixteen cases surfaced in Chandigarh and three in Panchkula. After a peak of dengue infections in October, the fresh cases are now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature as the climate conditions are not suitable for mosquitoes to breed. However, no death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on Thursday. For this year, Mohali’s dengue count has gone up to 3,854, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,438 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 878, with one death so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-9-chandigarh-logs-highest-covid-cases-in-four-months-101637873853197.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||DMCH, GADVASU observe Anti-microbial Awareness Week||Dayanand Medical College and Hospital observed Anti-microbial Awareness Week by holding various activities including poster making, slogan writing and quizzes. The department of microbiology, in association with the hospital infection control team, conducted a public awareness session in the OPD area to sensitise people on the appropriate use of antibiotics.Postgraduation students were sensitised about the interpretation of microbiology culture reports, antibiotic policy and audit. These sessions were conducted by Dr Veenu Gupta, HoD, microbiology; Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor, department of medicine and by Dr Sandeep Kaushal, professor and head of department, pharmacology.Dr Ashwani K Chaudhary, medical superintendent and chairperson, Infection Control Committee, DMCH, appreciated the efforts of the organising team for conducting the events. In his message, Dr Sarit Sharma, professor, department of community medicine and in-charge of Infection Control Committee advised the public to not take antibiotics without a doctor’s prescription.GADVSU: Experts stress on collaborative effortThe Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, organised various activities on World Antimicrobial Awareness (AMR) Week under the theme “spread awareness, stop resistance”. The week-long event commenced with expert lectures by Dr Pallab Ray and Dr Manisha Biswal, professors at department of medical microbiology, PGIMER, Chandigarh.The speakers stressed upon the need to target human, animal and environmental sectors holistically and the importance of infection control and prevention to tackle the emerging AMR challenge. The events were inaugurated by Dr JPS Gill, director research, GADVASU, who stated that different sectors are responsible for AMR emergence and must should collaborate to tackle this issue.The organising secretaries of the event, Randhir Singh, professor and Simranpreet Kaur, associate professor, Centre for One Health, stressed on prudent use of antibiotics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dmch-gadvasu-observe-anti-microbial-awareness-week-101637873732903.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM Soni faces protesting health workers in Sangrur||National Health Mission (NHM) employees and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers protested against Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni during his visit to the Sangrur civil hospital on Thursday. The protesters sought regularisation of their jobs besides solution of others demands. The deputy CM assured to address their concerns and asked to end the strike which has been going on for the past ten days.Later, Soni presided over a meeting organised by Sangrur district industrial chamber and Punjab Pradesh vyapar mandal in Dhuri. He claimed that the state government has solved 90 per cent problems of industrialists and traders. “Several notifications have been issued. The government is paying a special attention to the development of the industry in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-soni-faces-protesting-health-workers-in-sangrur-101637872773497.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man posing as tax officer arrested||A 66-year-old man impersonating a sales tax official was arrested from Burail, Chandigarh Police said on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Parkash Puri of Dhakoli. He was produced in a court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody. He was caught on the complaint of Kamal Gupta of Baltana, who alleged that the accused had taken ₹5,000 from him by posing as a sales tax officer. Gupta told the police that he has a footwear shop at Kesho Ram Complex in Burail. He said the man identifying himself as Parkash Puri came to his shop on Wednesday and claimed to be from the tax department. He asked Gupta to show some bill and when he refused, Puri started mounting pressure on him. Gupta said the same man had come to his shop last year too and taken ₹5,000 from him. As soon as I recognised him, I called the police control room, the victim added. However, Puri told the police said that he was a vegetable seller and had come to buy shoes. The shopkeeper lodged a complaint when I asked him for a bill, Puri said. The police, acting on the complaint of Gupta, have registered a case under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Sector-34 police station. MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYTheft from parked car in ChandigarhThieves fled with valuables kept in a car after smashing its windowpane in Sector 26, according to a complaint made to the police on Thursday. In his complaint, Irshad Ali Khan of Ropar said that he had parked his vehicle near Strawberry Fields High School and gone for some work on Wednesday. When he returned he found that the windowpane of his car was smashed and cash, silver locket, watch and perfume were missing from it. It is seventh such incident reported in the city in the past one month. Police are looking into the complaint and had not registered an FIR till the filing of this report.Burglary at house in ChandigarhChandigarh Police registered a case six days after a theft was reported at a house in Makhanmajra. In his complaint to police, Amir Khan said he and his mother away for work when the burglars struck at his house on November 19. Gold and silver jewellery besides ₹40,000 were stolen, he said. A case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. Two thefts were also reported at houses in Dhanas and Bapu Dham Colony in the past couple of days, though police are verifying the details.11 days on, missing Zirakpur teen found in Amritsar Eleven days after a 16-year-old Zirakpur boy went missing, police traced him to Amritsar and reunited him with his family members. The teenager told the police he left for Amritsar as he had performed poorly in a scholarship exam. He was carrying about ₹350 cash and a mobile phone, which he had turned off after leaving for Amritsar. Mayor initiates development works in MohaliMohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu initiated development works worth ₹35 lakh in Mataur village and Phase 10 on Thursday. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also accompanying him. The mayor said the work of laying paver blocks at the langar hall in Mataur along with repair work in the village and SBI colony in Phase 10 has begun. He said the works were being carried out as per the requirement of residents. He said there was neither shortage of funds nor any discrimination in the development works. AAP ignoring Kharar: BJP leader Aam Aadmi Party is playing “politics of revenge” with the residents of Kharar constituency in Mohali, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vineet Joshi said on Thursday. Talking to media, Joshi questioned that why the party is fielding an “outsider”, Anmol Gagan Mann, instead of a local candidate in Kharar. “Earlier, in 2017, the AAP had ignored local leaders and had given the ticket to Kanwar Sandhu, who never visited his constituency,” he alleged. Sanitation jobs: 1,179 apply in Mohali The Mohali municipal corporation has received 1,179 online applications for filling 967 posts of sanitation workers. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said four teams led by executive engineer Avneet Kaur, municipal town planner Navneet Wadhwa, secretary Ranjiv Kumar and secretary Jaswinder Singh will scrutinise the applications. After scrutiny, the staff will be recruited by Puncom on the basis of merit, he said. Sensitisation session for PU students The placement cell of the economics department in collaboration with Central Placement Cell, Panjab University, organised a student sensitisation session on Thursday. Professor Amandeep Singh Marwaha encouraged students to make their own decisions towards their future and follow their dreams. He also enlightened students on how to plan their career. Two-day meet for V-Cs at Shoolini UniversityOver 150 vice-chancellors of universities from the north zone will be attending a two-day conference from Friday to deliberate on sustainable development goals through higher education institutions for ensuring equality and sustainable society. The meeting is being organised by the Association of Indian Universities in collaboration with the United Nations, which has set the agenda, and is being hosted by Himachal Pradesh-based Shoolini University. FCI celebrates Azadi Ka Amrit MahotsavThe Food Corporation of India’s Haryana regional office celebrated Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav as a part of celebrations for 75th year of independence. The event was inaugurated by Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta. The event was attended by all staff members of the regional office and nearby state government offices. Various videos were shown on work done by the FCI for the country’s self-dependence in terms of food grains since the independence.Greek artists hold painting workshop Greek artists splattered colours at the Pracheen Kala Kendra Art Gallery on the first day of a two-day workshop organised in collaboration with the Embassy of Greece and Indian Council of Cultural Relations. On the first day, artists demonstrated their painting skills to young students of the city. This programme will continue from 10:30 am to 5 pm at the Kendra’s Sector 35 building on Friday. Freshers welcomed at Dera Bassi institute Sri Sukhmani Group of Institutions, Dera Bassi, on Thursday organised a fresher’s party, Welcome Fiesta 2021, on its campus. Fresh entrants of the engineering and technology, pharmacy, hospitality Management, law and polytechnic colleges were welcomed by senior students. A number of cultural programmes were organised too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-posing-as-tax-officer-arrested-101637872653097.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram credits collaborative public effort for Shimla topping Sustainable Development Goals||With Shimla topping the NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals Urban Index 2021-22, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday appreciated the collaborative efforts of the people of the state.In a congratulatory message to the public, Thakur highlighted Shimla city’s cumulative score of 75.5 out of 100, which placed it at pole position on the first-of-its-kind list. Thakur revealed the NITI Aayog scrutinised a total of 56 cities, which included 44 cities with a population of more than 10 lakh and 12 state capitals with population of less than 10 lakh, using 46 targets and 77 indicators to arrive at the final findings.He further added the key development targets and indicators kept in view while measuring the performance of various cities included poverty index, health and education, gender equality, affordable and clean energy as well as climate action. Thakur said while most of the population of the country resides in rural settings, cities also play an important role in overall development. That, according to him, is where NITI Aayog’s latest collaboration with the Indo-German Development Corporation, the GIZ and BMZ in the shape of the Sustainable Development Goals Urban Index will provide useful insight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-credits-collaborative-public-effort-for-shimla-topping-sustainable-development-goals-101637872592712.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP open to forming alliance with like-minded political party: Malik||Senior BJP leader MP Shwait Malik, who was in the city on Thursday, has not ruled out the possibility of the saffron party forming a pre-poll or post-poll alliance with “any like-minded political party.” Malik, who was in town to take feedback from industrialists, traders, small businessmen and sale-tax lawyers , said politics was all about permutation and combinations. “We cannot rule out the possibility of forming an alliance with a like-minded political party. Nonetheless, we have decided to field candidate for all 117 seats,” said Malik, when asked about the possibility of forging an alliance with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s newly floated Punjab Lokhit Party.On the repealing of the three farm laws, Malik said, “We are fortunate to have a compassionate Prime Minister who repealed the farm laws and did not turn it into an ego issue, though the three laws were in the interest of the farmers. Nearly 80% of the farmers had hailed the new laws, but only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana were emotional about it. So, the PM decided to repeal the laws.”Apart from Congress leaders, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had also praised the three farm laws.SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was a minister at the time, had read the ordinance and even signed the laws, he said. Asked about chances of renewing its alliance with the SAD, Malik said such decisions were taken by the party high command. He accused the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party of making false promises ahead of the assembly polls. “Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief president Navjot Singh Sidhu is shaming chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in public for making false promises. Not to be left behind, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is also taking the people for a ride on the issue of farm laws. We will make only those promises that can be fulfilled,” said Malik.Senior taxation lawyer Varinder Bobby Sharma stressed on the need to simplify GST, while senior advocate KL Sikri stressed on bringing in efficient tenancy laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-open-to-forming-alliance-with-like-minded-political-party-malik-101637872532873.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Have no link with brother Avtar Pannu of SFJ, says Balwinder Kotlabama||Balwinder Singh Pannu Kotlabama, the newly appointed chairman of Punjab Genco Limited, a subsidiary of the Punjab Energy Development Authority (PEDA), on Thursday claimed that he had no link with his brother Avtar Singh Pannu, a key functionary of banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). The appointment of Kotlabama, an aide of Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, as Punjab Genco Limited chairman stirred a row after the opposition parties and even some Congress leaders opposed the move over his relation with Avtar Pannu. He said, “I have not talked to him (Avtar) since 2007 when he visited India last. I have been a soldier of the Congress for the last 42 years. I was chairman of the Batala market committee and remained the sarpanch of my village Kotlabama for 25 years. Till recently, I was district vice-president of the Congress.” Kotlabama said he was against the idea of Khalistan. “A senseless man named Gurpatwant Singh Pannu is running his own agenda. My brother was lured by him. Security agencies can conduct an inquiry to check my links with these secessionist elements,” he said over phone.He accused former MLA Ashwani Sekhri of targeting him over the issue. “Actually, there is a turf war between Tript Bajwa and Sekhri over the Batala assembly seat. To target Bajwa, Sekhri is making me a scapegoat,” he said.He also slammed Qadian MLA Fatehjung Singh Bajwa for targeting him over the “baseless issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/have-no-link-with-brother-avtar-pannu-says-balwinder-kotlabama-101637872352932.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana coaching centre told to refund ₹15k to NEET aspirant||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has asked a coaching centre in Kitchlu Nagar to refund ₹15,000 to a NEET aspirant for failing to complete the crash course she had enrolled for in the stipulated period and pay an additional ₹3,000 to the complainant as compensation. The complainant, Anjali Chaudhary, who was seeking coaching for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), had accused the coaching centre, Gian Setu, located in 68B, Kitchlu Nagar, of “deficiency in service.” On March 18, 2020, Chaudhary had approached the coaching centre, seeking enrolment in a 45-day crash course. She was told that the course would cost ₹25,000 and classes would start from March 23, 2020, following which she paid the first instalment of ₹15,000. After a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23, the centre offered to provide online classes against the ₹15,000 payment already made to the institute. Chaudhary said classes started in April, but the Biology teacher took coaching classes for only 15 days, and only went through one of the two books in the syllabus, the physics and chemistry teachers only turned up for two lectures, after which they stopped taking classes. Chaudhary contended that since it was a crash course and was to be completed within the stipulated time frame, the respondent’s failure to complete the course amounted to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. She sought a refund, along with a compensation of ₹5 lakh. With no one appearing on the behalf of the respondent, the hearing proceeded ex parte. In its order, the Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission said, “This clearly amounts to deficiency of services. In the given circumstances, in our considered view, it would be just and proper if the respondent is directed to refund ₹15,000 along with composite compensation of ₹3,000 to the complainant within 30 days of receiving a copy of the order”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-coaching-centre-told-to-refund-15k-to-neet-aspirant-101637872295185.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba raises doubts over Rambagh encounter||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister (CM) Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday raised doubts over the killing of three militants at Rambagh.Police had on Wednesday said the militants, including TRF commander Mehran Yaseen Shalla, were moving in a Santro car when they were signaled to stop. But instead of stopping, the trio fired indiscriminately at the police party and was killed in the ensuing gunfire.PDP president and former J&K chief minister, in a tweet, said, “After yesterday’s alleged encounter at Rambagh, legitimate doubts are looming over its authenticity. As per reports & witnesses, it seems the firing was one-sided. Again the official version far from truth is not in line with the ground realities as seen in Shopian, HMT & Hyderpora.”Even locals raised suspicion over the killings at Rambagh and a shutdown was observed in some parts of the old city. There were also protests in some parts. Traffic movement, however, remained unaffected.As per the police spokesperson, the slain militants were identified as LeT (TRF) commander Mehran Yaseen Shalla of Jamalatta Srinagar, Manzoor Ahmad Mir of Babhar Pulwama, and Arafat Ahmad Sheikh of Nikloora Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-raises-doubts-over-rambagh-encounter-101637872294089.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Dilapidated Barara bus stand cries for attention||The bus stand of Ambala’s Barara sub-division, about 50km from the district headquarters, is in a dilapidated condition. The bus stand was inaugurated in 1990.The public convenience facilities at the terminal, which is spread across around four acres of land, are filthy and without doors, besides a continuous source of unbearable foul smell. The RO drinking water system at the premises is out of order. Since the bus stand doesn’t have a waiting area for passengers, most of them prefer getting onto a bus from the exit gate, Dharamveer, a social activist, said. “Government and private buses for Ambala, Yamunanagar, Delhi and other nearby towns are available here. The situation has not changed even after Barara got its own municipal council recently. There is no provision of sweeping and a pond full of garbage behind the bus stand adds to the woes of the people,” he added. Last week, Congress MLA from Mullana, Varun Chaudhary, under whose constituency the area comes, visited the terminus. “It seems that it has not been renovated since it was opened. The ladies toilet doesn’t have a door. The ceiling is coming off here and there and loose wires can be seen hanging. This is an example how a public property shouldn’t look like,” the legislator added. Chaudhary further said that he has highlighted the issue before the transport department and will also raise it in the upcoming assembly session.Joginder Rawal, roadways’ general manager at Ambala depot, who took charge on Monday, said that he’ll visit the site this week and order early restoration of basic facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-dilapidated-barara-bus-stand-cries-for-attention-101637872292778.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, women are more prone to diabetes||The prevalence of diabetes among adults in Chandigarh has increased manifold in the past five years, making the UT worst-affected with the disease in the region, data released by the National Family Health Survey-5 has revealed.As per the recent survey, 12% of women (in the age group of 15 and above) in Chandigarh have very high blood sugar level with readings of more than 160 mg/dl. Meanwhile, 6% women have high blood sugar levels between 141-160 mg/dl. The data also revealed that 19% women in the city are taking medicine to control their blood sugar.The data also revealed that the prevalence of diabetes is lesser in male adults in Chandigarh. Around 7.1% of men have high blood sugar level while 8.8% have very high blood sugar level. Also, 16.6% are on diabetes medication.The national average for women and men with very high blood sugar level stands at 6.3% and 7.2%, respectively.The prevalence of diabetes in Chandigarh was lower when the last survey (NFHS-4) was conducted in 2015-2016. Only 2.5% women and 4.2% men had very high sugar level, while 5.6% women and 6.9% men had high sugar level.NFHS-5 (2020-21), conducted by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, is the fifth in the series and provides information on population, health, and nutrition for India and each state and UT. The information for the survey was gathered from 761 households, which included 746 women and 104 men, in Chandigarh.Food habits, sedentary lifestyle major causes“In Chandigarh, more women are employed as compared to other states. This means, the women are burdened with office and household work, due to which they get less time for exercise and more stress. All these reasons are increasing diabetes among women,” said Dr Sanjay Bhadada, head of the department of endocrinology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Dr Bhadada said diabetes patients also develop other lifestyle diseases, and it was found that around 60% of the Covid-19 patients at the PGIMER had diabetes. “Diabetes was a major comorbidity that had contributed in Covid-19 fatality rate,” he said.Dr Anil Bhansali, former head of the endocrinology department at the PGIMER, said: “A study — Chandigarh Urban Diabetic Study — conducted in 2010 showed that 13% adults were diabetic. In 2017, ICMR had also conducted a study that showed 13% of adults (living in urban and rural areas) in Chandigarh were diabetic.”The major reasons behind high prevalence of this disease are adolescent and adulthood obesity in Chandigarh residents, besides their sedentary lifestyle, he said. “Also, since people of Chandigarh are literate, they go for screening of the disease and high testing reveals high prevalence,” he said.Dr KP Singh, an endocrinologist, said: “Mostly, people in Chandigarh have diabetic family history and as per a study, 80% of the city residents do not exercise even when they have facilities like beautiful parks and open gyms. Not only this, the residents have busy lifestyles and their habit of consuming fried food, especially at late evening hours, is increasing diabetes.”Dr Singh added that hypertension and diabetes are interlinked and if a diabetic person doesn’t get hypertension at an early stage, it is likely that 90% of the patients will get hypertension after 10 years. Also, after the Covid-19 outbreak, diabetes prevalence has increased as the virus directly impacts pancreas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-chandigarh-women-aremore-prone-to-diabetes-101637872063074.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh SI suspended for taking bribes from fellow cops||A sub-inspector posted with the police establishment branch in Chandigarh has been suspended following complaints of corruption.The order issued by superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Meena states that sub-inspector (SI) Kamal Pal Singh has been placed under suspension with immediate effect and sent to police lines. The police establishment branch looks after various establishment matters including transfers of constables, head constables, sub-inspectors and inspectors. Sources said the SI was suspended following complaints that he was taking money in lieu of facilitating transfers of other cops. The amount paid ranged from ₹10,000 to ₹20,000, depending upon the rank, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-si-suspended-for-taking-bribes-from-fellow-cops-101637872061208.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ram Darbar paints a dirty picture in Ward 19||Chandigarh’s Ward No. 19 has been formed by combining Ram Darbar, which was earlier a part of Ward No. 23, and the Industrial Area, Phase 2, which was under Ward No. 22. There are around 23,000 voters in the ward, of whom about 20,000 reside in Ram Darbar, a semi-urban locality on the outskirts of the main city.It is one of three wards that have been reserved for women candidates from the scheduled caste community.Ram Darbar is composed of various phases and is situated right next to the 3 BRD Air Force Station. Garbage can be seen strewn along the boundary of the station right at the entrance to the area. Jagat Singh, 68, who lives nearby, says many residents dispose of the domestic and construction waste close to the wall. A forest area is situated opposite the colony, and as per Kavita, 44, a home owner here, it emanates foul smell every time it rains.Inside Ram Darbar, the roads are in a bad shape, which residents complain haven’t been repaired for years. The law and order situation is also bad, and Pankaj Goyal, 32, who runs a shop here, says valuables kept inside cars parked on the roads get stolen frequently.Kamlesh, former two-time mayor from the Congress (1996 and 2004) also lives in Ram Darbar. She says the locality’s condition has been deteriorating every year. “The biggest decline has been in the cleanliness situation of Ram Darbar. The MC employees park the garbage collection vehicles on the road and tell people to throw their garbage, rather than lifting it on their own. The houses here are built in clusters, with a small park between every 30 houses or so. These gardens are not maintained at all. The MC workers hardly visit to pick the garbage from these spots,” she says.Local councillor Bharat Kumar agrees that cleanliness is a big problem, but says that he has been working on it. “I get the sanitation workers to clean the areas wherever heaps of garbage are found. At many places, people throw malba as well, which I get cleared every fortnight or so. I have also worked on resolving the sewerage and water supply issues,” he says. Industrialists feel ignoredThe Industrial Area, Phase 2, suffers from traffic congestion with no space available for parking vehicles. Visitors end up parking the vehicles on pedestrian paths, leaving no space for others to walk. The industrialists want the next councillor to take the issues concerning the area seriously and raise them in the MC General House.Davesh Moudgil, who represents the area, says he had worked towards allowing industrialists working in marla plots to load and unload their vehicles without getting challaned. “We got a booster pump installed to ensure water supply during the day, not just in the morning and evening. Further, I built two parks as many industrialists complained that there weren’t any places for them to walk.”Know your wardLocalities: Ram Darbar and Industrial Area, Phase 2Reserved for SC womenVoters: 23,000Key issuesGarbage is dumped on roadside and vacant spots in Ram DarbarMC not ensuring upkeep of parks in Ram DarbarPoorly maintained roads and chronic parking problem across ward Local voicesThe parking issue is the key problem. There is no space left on the roads with vehicles parked everywhere. Jaswant Singh, 50, a resident of Ram DarbarThe roads need to be widened. We want the councillor to work on improving property tax collection system.Naveen Manglani, 58, president of Chamber of Chandigarh Industries based in Industrial Area, Phase 2We want a councillor who remains accessible to people and holds frequent meetings with us, not just during elections.Kuldeep Rawat, 45, works as a security guard and resides in Ram DarbarMC officials are more active in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, and ignore Phase 2. We need a community parking space.Chander Verma, 56, chairman, Chandigarh Industrial Converted Plot Owners Association based in Industrial Area, Phase 2||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhram-darbar-paints-a-dirty-picture-in-ward-19-101637872060120.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Influencers, mobile app to pull voters to polling booths||From mobile apps to roping in popular personalities, the State Election Commission (SEC), Chandigarh, will be starting a voter awareness campaign in December ahead of the municipal elections.For the last two consecutive municipal elections, the voter turnout has stagnated at around 59%. This time around, with the polling day, December 24, falling at the start of a long winter vacation, there is added concern that the voting percentage might go down.Political parties are particularly worried that city residents might opt out of voting and instead go for outstation travel during the holidays. “In previous elections, the polling day was generally a Sunday, well before start of winter holidays. So, we have to see how people respond to the changed situation this time around,” said a senior BJP leader.On its part, for bringing more voters out on the D-Day, and particularly keeping the holiday scenario in mind, the SEC is planning to involve famous personalities from sports, entertainment and social sectors to encourage people to vote.“We have zeroed in on a few influencers. We have approached them to get involved in our voter awareness campaign. While one of them will be the face of the campaign, others will also motivate people to vote,” said a senior functionary of the SEC, who didn’t want to be named.For greater involvement of the voters, and ease of casting of votes, the SEC will also launch a mobile app. “It will be a voter-centric mobile app. Voters will be able to know about the candidates being fielded from various wards. There will be application forms. Provision will be made for filing complaints of violation of the moral code of conduct. Location of polling booths will also be made available,” said the official.Elements like information on the number of voters queuing up at a booth might also be included in the app. “The voters rarely get to know the queue at the polling station and young voters get dissuaded due to the long queue. So, this element in the app will also encourage them to vote,” the official said.The SEC will also use the traditional mass media platforms — television, radio, newspapers and outdoor publicity — to ensure greater participation of voters. “Special jingles will be made for radio broadcasts. Similarly, at strategic locations like major roundabouts, we will put banners motivating people to vote. In educational institutions, we will attempt to spread the message of importance of casting vote,” the official said.Parties working hard tooParties are also gearing up their own campaign so that their supporters do vote on the D-Day. “We are happy with the SEC decision and fully ready for the situation. Though, poll date is in the middle of the holiday season, we will tap into our party wings catering to people from different regions to motivate them to vote rather than move to their home state during the holidays,” said BJP state president Arun Sood.Subhash Chawla, state Congress president, said: “We will request the residents to opt to vote over outstation travel. The message will be shared across all wards.” Prem Garg, city convener, AAP, said: “We will run a campaign, particularly on social media, to encourage people to vote in huge numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-election-influencers-mobile-app-to-pull-voters-to-polling-booths-101637872058905.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Minister Warring demands early announcement of Congress candidates||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Thursday urged the party high command for an early announcement of candidates for the forthcoming assembly elections to check interference by leaders in the constituencies.At a meeting chaired by the Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary with the party leaders in Bathinda, Warring said the party workers were enthusiastic after Charanjit Singh Channi was given command of the state government.“It is important that names of the candidates are made public at the earliest. There are instances wherein party leaders are seen active in other assembly segments. Timely announcement of candidates will check such undue movements of leaders,” said the minister without naming anyone.In the last few months, Warring had accused finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal for increasing political activities in the former’s constituency Gidderbaha.Warring, who had unsuccessfully contested the last Lok Sabha from Bathinda, told the central leader that in the last four-and-a-half years of the Congress government, party workers were grossly neglected by the party leadership and the ministers.Responding to Warring and supporters of other party leaders, Chaudhary said candidates would be announced as per the wish expressed by party activists of the respective constituency.“Congress workers should unite and fight to ensure the part’s victory in the elections. The Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are wrongly questioning the Channi government’s decisions that were taken to benefit the common man in Punjab,” he said.Finance minister Manpreet Badal, Rampura Phul MLA and former minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar were among those who spoke on the occasion.Later, Chaudhary took feedback from leaders and workers of all five assembly segments of Bathinda district separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-minister-warring-demands-early-announcement-of-congress-candidates-101637872057754.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Solid waste management: Four housing societies put on notice in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) on Thursday served notices to four cooperative housing societies in Sectors 48-50 for non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016,.The societies put on notice under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, are BSNL Society and Progressive Society in Sector 50, Pushpak Society in Sector 49 and Kendriya Vihar Society in Sector 48.During the Swachh Sarvekshan 2022 review meeting on Wednesday, UT adviser Dharam Pal had directed the CPCC member secretary to issue notices to bulk waste generating societies that are flouting rules and put display boards stating “Non-compliance Society” outside their premises to name and shame them.In the recently released report of Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh’s rank dropped from 8 to 16 among 48 cities with population above 10 lakh, and its overall score also dipped from 83% to 71%, mainly due to poor performance in garbage collection and sanitation.‘Comply within 7 days’According to the notice served by CPCC member secretary Debendra Dalai, it has been observed that duties of waste generators specified in Rule 4 of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, are not being complied properly resulting in the improper disposal of municipal solid waste by their societies.All four societies have been directed to comply with the rules and intimate action taken in this regard to the CPCC with a copy to the municipal corporation, Chandigarh, within seven days. In case of failure to comply with the rules, action will be initiated under Section 15 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and other provisions of law, the notice stated. Non-compliance can invite a fine of ₹1 lakh and/or imprisonment up to five years. What the rules sayAccording to the rules, all gated communities and institutions with more than 5,000 square meter area shall, within one year from the date of notification of the Solid Waste Management Rules and in partnership with the local body, ensure segregation of waste (wet, dry, domestic hazardous and sanitary waste) at source by the generators. The societies are tasked with facilitating collection of this segregated waste in separate streams, and hand over recyclable material to either the authorised waste pickers or authorised recyclers. The biodegradable waste (wet waste) shall be processed, treated and disposed of through composting or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible, the rules state, adding that the residual waste (dry, domestic hazardous and sanitary waste) shall be given to waste collectors or agency as directed by the local body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solid-waste-management-four-housing-societies-put-on-notice-in-chandigarh-101637872055829.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Probe ordered into axing of trees on shamlat land in Lalru||Additional deputy commissioner, Mohali, Pooja Sayal has ordered an inquiry pertaining to cutting of trees spread over 100 acres of shamlat land under the Lalru nagar council in the district’s Dera Bassi subdivision.In a letter written to the Lalru MC executive officer, the ADC has sought a report from the officers concerned, questioning as to with whose permission the trees are being cut. The report is to be submitted by Friday, failing which action will be taken as per law. Earlier, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, who visited the area, alleged the nagar council in order to benefit some private persons had sold these trees worth several lakhs for just ₹2.25 lakh. He said during the visit to the spot, he saw that many large trees with a diameter of about two-and-a-half feet were being axed and 40-50 people had been engaged in the work for the past one week. “This whole business us going on without the approval of the forest department. As per rules, a written assessment was to be done by the forest department before giving permission for cutting the trees from the shamlat land, after which advertisement for auctioning of trees was to be issued,” said the MLA.Alleging the connivance of Congress leaders, Sharma said he would lodge a complaint with the Mohali deputy commissioner, senior superintendent of police and forest department and push for a vigilance probe. Bindu Rana, president, municipal council, said the shamlat land has been cleared of kikar trees and reeds (sarkanda) so that it could be allotted to 267 homeless persons. She said steps have been initiated as per rules. Jai Singh, block officer of the forest department, Dera Bassi, said the matter of seeking clearance for the said trees was not in his notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-probe-ordered-into-axing-of-trees-on-shamlat-land-in-lalru-101637872054748.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railways staffer dies after falling in manhole, probe ordered||A technician with the railways died after falling into an uncovered manhole in Railway Colony 8 on Thursday.After the victim, Raghuvir Singh, 47, of Rajasthan was found dead in the manhole, union leaders raised slogans and demanded that an FIR be registered against the negligent railway officers. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. Inspector Gurpreet Singh, Division 5 station house officer, said a case will be registered after recording the statement of the victim’s kin. “It has been learnt that the victim was a habitual drinker, and it is suspected that he was under the influence of alcohol when he fell into the uncovered manhole. The grass around the manhole had grown out, due to which the manhole may have been obscured from sight,” he said. Meanwhile, the members of NRMU stated that they have asked the railway authorities to cover the manholes several times, but to no avail.Ferozepur divisional railway manager Seema Sharma said a fact-finding inquiry has been marked in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railways-staffer-dies-after-falling-in-manhole-probe-ordered-101637872053114.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Untreated sewage from Chandigarh still entering N-Choe||Despite directions of the subcommittee formed on the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions, untreated sewage from Chandigarh is still being discharged into the N-choe at various points in the UT as well as Mohali.N-Choe is a seasonal stream that originates in the north of Chandigarh and runs across the city before meeting the Jagatpura drain at Manauli village in Mohali. The water finally drains into the Ghaggar river.The subcommittee was formed in June this year and comprises officials from the Central Pollution Control Board, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.A committee member, who did not wish to be named, said that there are still several points in both Mohali and Chandigarh where untreated sewage is being discharged from Chandigarh into the natural water bodies. “Even farmers use the same water for agricultural purposes downstream along the Ghaggar,” said the member.‘Sewage not treated properly’The official said that even at the sewage treatment plant (STP ) at Diggian village in Chandigarh is not treating the wastewater properly and it is released in the choe as such. Even, untreated sewage from Faidan village in Chandigarh is being discharged into the Jagatpura drain in Mohali, he said.Untreated sewage refers to wastewater that contains harmful waterborne pathogens and bacteria and which has not yet gone through a sewage treatment plant. It poses a high risk to human and animal health.It was on May 6 this year when lawyer and activist Sunaina filed a petition before the NGT, stating that contaminated water from Chandigarh enters drains in Mohali and eventually the Ghaggar river, and is used by nearby farmers for cultivation, thus polluting the entire food chain and jeopardising the health of people and aquatic life.The plea wanted the Chandigarh administration and Punjab to install necessary sewage treatment plants, following which, the NGT bench presided over by its chairperson and former Supreme Court judge AK Goel directed Chandigarh to ensure that sewage from the city flowing into the Ghaggar is treated and sought a report.It also directed the Punjab chief secretary and UT adviser, in coordination with other officials concerned, to take appropriate remedial measures and ensure zero discharge of untreated water. In 2019, too, directions were issued to ensure the release of 100% treated water into rivers and drains by March 31, 2020. However, the NGT observed that there was hardly any significant improvement. ‘We have closed inlets in all major areas’Anindita Mitra, commissioner, Chandigarh MC, said: “We have closed the inlets of sewage in all major areas. We have also served notices on individual house owners in villages from where sewage was being discharged into stormwater drains, so that they change their internal sewage systems.” Mitra said that In Faidan colony, where laying new sewerage network is not possible, phytoremediation has been suggested as a solution to the administration. “The UT engineering department will also install screen at choes to stop dumping of garbage into these water bodies,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untreated-sewage-from-chandigarh-still-entering-nchoe-101637871997660.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: GMADA project to develop Sector 90 in limbo||The acquisition of around 43 acres of land under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900, has delayed the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s (GMADA) project to develop Sector 90, situated near Lakhnaur village in Mohali. In 2015, GMADA had acquired 229 acres under a land pooling scheme to develop the sector. Around 700 allottees, who have got letters of intent (LoI), are still awaiting possession.The matter came to light when GMADA sought a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the forest department to develop the sector, but the forest department raised the objection that around 43 acres of land is under PLPA and NOC cannot be issued.The Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, referred to as the PLPA was enacted by the then government of Punjab in 1900. The Act provides for the conservation of subsoil water and/or prevention of erosion in areas found to be subject to erosion or likely to become liable to erosion.A senior GMADA official, who is dealing with the project, said, “When the land was acquired, we were not aware of PLPA land and even the revenue department does not have anything on record. Now they have raised the objection and we have applied for deforestation of the land and hopefully, it will be done soon. Our layout plan is ready.”Gurjot Singh, a resident of Lakhnaur and one of the allottees, said, “It is unfortunate that the officers concerned are not aware of the PLPA land and now even after six years, 700 allottees are waiting for possession while the nearby sectors are all developed.” Under land pooling, farmers were offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land, he said. As per the plan, GMADA was to initially develop 144 acres. Residential plots measuring 100 to 500 square yards will come up over 29 acres, commercial sites will come up over 14 acres and 11 acres will be earmarked for institutions. Parks will be developed over eight acres, waterworks will take up two acres and roads will be constructed over 28 acres. GMADA chief engineer Devinder Singh said: “Once we get the layout plan, we will start the process of development. Sector 90 is a prime location for residential end-users, commercial real estate markets and investors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohaligmada-project-to-develop-sector-90-in-limbo-101637871996265.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||52 kg heroin seized from truck near Jammu, co-driver arrested||Jammu Police on Thursday seized 52 kgs of heroin from a truck at Jhajjar Kotli on Jammu-Srinagar highway and arrested the co-driver, additional director general of police Mukesh Singh. He identified the co-driver as Bharat Kumar of Kurukshetra. A hunt has been launched for the truck driver, who fled from the spot. “The SHO of Jhajjar Kotli police station Davinder Singh got an input about the attempt to smuggle a big consignment of heroin. He set up a checkpost and started checking vehicles coming from Srinagar to Jammu,” said the ADGP. The truck with Haryana registration jumped the checkpost but it was chased and intercepted at some distance, said the officer. “While the truck driver fled from the spot, he has been identified and will be arrested soon. Co-driver has been arrested. During the checking of the truck, police recovered 52 kgs of heroin which costs about ₹100 crore in the international market,” said Singh. Initial investigation revealed that the contraband was being smuggled to Punjab from Kashmir. It was picked up from Srinagar. “The packets had a marking of 1999, which was also found on some contraband being smuggled from Pakistan,” he said. He also informed that Jammu police in the past two years seized 185 kg of heroin having a market value approximately ₹360 crore. “During this period 1,500 were arrested, of which six were booked under Public Safety Act (PSA). We also seized 500 kg charas, 2500 poppy straw and 180 kg heroin besides other psychotropic drugs in the past two years,” said the ADGP. He also said that police recovered ₹2.50 crore of drug money during the period. “The money—part of Pakistan’s narco-terrorism, had to be used in funding and fuelling terrorism in J&K,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52-kg-heroin-seized-from-truck-near-jammu-co-driver-arrested-101637871995025.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Jailed scribe used friend’s mobile phone to make threat call||Former journalist Sanjiv Majahan, who is in jail in connection with a property grab case, had used the mobile phone of a Sector 37 resident for making a threat call to the prime witness in a murder case on November 22. Mahajan, who is currently lodged in the Burail jail, was taken to court for a hearing when he had made the call, said police. The very next day, police had booked him for threatening the man, who is the main witness in the murder of a Jind resident at the parking lot of the old district court in Sector 17 in September 2019. The same day, police also gave an undertaking in the high court to file a status report by December 13 on the complaint regarding the threat call. The police had traced the mobile phone used by Mahajan to Nitish, a resident of Sector 37. His statement has been recorded before the magistrate. Sources said that Nitish claimed that he is known to Mahajan and had gone to court to meet him on November 22. Mahajan reportedly asked him for his mobile phone to make a call, and Nitish gave it to him in “good faith”. Nitish reportedly told the magistrate that he was not aware to whom the call was made or what conversation took place. Cops to face action too: SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, has sought a report from the deputy superintendent of police (DSP), police lines, about cops deployed on duty to escort prisoners from the Burail jail to court. “We will be taking action against the police personnel who were accompanying the accused and allowed him to use the mobile phone,” he said. Police have already moved an application in the district courts for Mahajan’s production warrants, which will be taken up on Friday. Police intend to question Mahajan in the murder case and procure his voice samples to match with the call recordings. Complainant records statementThe police have also got the statement of the complainant, Rohit, a resident of Sunny Enclave, recorded before the magistrate. Sources said he claimed that he had got a call from a person identifying himself as Sanjiv Mahajan, who told him to withdraw from the murder case. Rohit is the prime witness and complainant in murder of Jind resident Tejinder Singh. Four men had shot him dead while injuring his friend in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhjailed-scribe-used-friend-s-mobile-phone-to-make-threat-call-101637871993956.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Ward 18 woes: Waste, water & wastewater||Garbage dumped in the open, low water pressure and choked sewers are among the key issues being faced by residents in Ward No. 18 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC).The ward comprises Sectors 20 and 30. Before fresh delimitation, Sector 20 was a part of Ward No. 16, while Sector 30 came under Ward No. 18.The residents rue that the present councillors are unapproachable and least interested in carrying out development projects in the area.“Though Sector 20 is located in the middle of the City Beautiful, the area is dotted with garbage dumps and overflowing sewage. While domestic waste is being lifted from door to door, garbage thrown on the lanes, in markets or in parks is not being cleared,” says OP Verma, president, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 20. He also alleges that though the MC in its reply to an RTI query claimed that 57 sweepers have been assigned to maintain sanitation in the sector, in reality, only 25-30 sweepers can be seen on duty. “Garbage is mostly dumped on the back lane of Laxmi Narayan temple, outside Government Model Senior Secondary School and near the Sector 20C market,” he says.Residents in Sector 20 also demand clean drinking water, and say the water pressure from tubewells is low, due to which those living on upper floors face hassles. They also claim that children and the elderly can’t walk in the parks or on lanes due to stray dog menace and poor lighting. Sector 30 faces similar issues. “In both residential and market areas, sewerage lines are choked, resulting in foul smell and breeding of mosquitoes. Besides, the garbage is not being picked regularly from vacant plots and roadsides,” says Harpreet Singh, chairman, RWA, Sector 30B, while questioning the high MC taxes even though “the common man is not being provided basic amenities”.Lack of parking spaces irks the locals in both these sectors, just as in other urban pockets of the city. Residents say the MC has allotted the open spaces, meant for parking, to street vendors. “During the evening hours, people do not even get space to park their two-wheelers in the market, as most of the space is occupied by the vendors. The MC should allot other places to vendors, so that people coming to the markets do not get harassed,” says Simran Kaur, 40, a resident of Sector 20.KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Sector 20 and Sector 30Reserved for women (general)Voters: 30,000Key IssuesGarbage not being lifted regularly from roadside, markets and parksChoked sewers and water supply at low pressureLack of parking spaces as most areas allotted to vendorsLOCAL VOICESThe MC must ensure that garbage gets cleared from the roads as it doesn’t look like the sector is a part of the City Beautiful.Harsharan Singh, 46, a resident of Sector 20In the evening, there is no space to park even two-wheelers in the market as most of the area has been occupied by vendors. Simran Kaur, 40, a resident of Sector 20In both residential and market areas, sewerage lines are choked, resulting in foul smell and breeding of mosquitoes.Harpreet Singh, chairman, RWA, Sector 30B Roads are recarpeted only during election times. Sewerage lines are choked and garbage is not being cleared regularly. Shahroz Khan, 27, a resident of Sector 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ward-18-woes-waste-water-wastewater-101637871992763.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi had approached me to bail out his ‘tainted’ brother: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had no right to talk about morality as he himself indulged in activities unbecoming of a political leader. Talking to mediapersons after addressing public meetings in support of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Sushil Kumar “Pinky” Sharma, Sukhbir president claimed that Channi had approached him during the SAD-BJP government’s tenure to extricate his “tainted” brother’s name from the Ludhiana city scam case and for this he extended support to their party in the assembly elections. Two days ago, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had also accused Channi of capitulating before the Badals to save his brother. Amarinder had made the remarks while hitting back at Channi over his frequent accusations that that he (Capt) had “connived with the Badals” and harmed Punjab’s interests.“It is a classic case of pot calling the kettle black”, Amarinder had remarked, adding, “It is not me, but Mr Channi, who had pledged his support and conscience to Badals to save his brother”. “Although I did not want to join issue with him (Channi), his frequent false accusations have forced me to reveal his capitulations before Sukhbir Singh Badal in 2007 to save his brother who was an accused along with me in the Ludhiana City Centre case,” Captain had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-had-approached-me-to-bail-out-his-tainted-brother-sukhbir-badal-101637871872633.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||All terrorists involved in civilian killings eliminated: Jammu and Kashmir DGP||Director general of police Dilbag Singh on Thursday said that following targeted killings of civilians in Srinagar, security forces eliminated more than 20 terrorists and the summer capital—Srinagar has been rid of active terrorists for now, except one, who was being searched. He also said that counter-insurgency operation by the Rashtriya Rifles in the forests of Bhatta Dhurian in Poonch was still on and the terrorists hiding in the woods would be accounted for by the RR soldiers. Addressing mediapersons here this evening, the DGP said that following civilian killings, security forces and police conducted dozens of successful operations and eliminated over 20 terrorists in Srinagar. “We have eliminated over 20 terrorists in Srinagar so far following the civilian killings killed. Every terrorist involved in civilian killings has been eliminated. Only one terrorist Basit of Kulgam is left and he is being searched,” said Singh. He informed that security forces were trying their best to improve the security environment. “As such no active terrorist is left in Srinagar but we always have a hybrid kind of terrorist available, who looks like a normal civilian but he is involved with terrorists as their associate and picks up weapon for committing some offence as and when a task is given to him. We are always on the lookout for such elements. We have been able to identify many of them and have already taken action in a big way,” he responded to a query. On anti-terror operations in Bhatta Dhurian, he said, “The operation has progressed for quite some time now. It is still on.” “Earlier also we had similar incidents like Sunderbani and Nowshera where operations continued for some time after the infiltration. We suspect that there (Bhata Dhurian) is some presence of terrorists after infiltration in that area and I am sure RR would be able to account for them,” he said. When asked to react over former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who has been casting aspersions on the security forces vis-à-vis on Rambagh encounter and has raised questions over Hyderpora encounter as well, the DGP said, “Anybody talking nonsense is absolutely not justified”. “There are people in the civil society who somehow understand the reality but try to say something, which is far from the reality. There are many people active on social media as well casting aspersions on the forces vis-à-vis killing of terrorists,” he said. On Rambagh encounter, he said one of them was the commander of the TRF and two were his associates. “The TRF commander was is responsible for the killing of sub inspector Arshad, grenade attack on June 26, at Barbarshah in which one civilian Mehran Ali was killed and three others were injured. He was also responsible for the killings of principal Supinder Koul and teacher Deepak Chand Mehra. So he suddenly becomes innocent after so many civilian killings. I think it is high time people look at the reality without mixing it up with their imagination. It was an encounter which brought relief to the people who lost their dear ones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-terrorists-involved-in-civilian-killings-eliminated-jammu-and-kashmir-dgp-101637871753160.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Eye specialist’s missing son found dead in Sidhwan Canal||The son of a renowned eye specialist, who had been missing for seven days, was found dead in the Sidhwan Canal near South City on Thursday The body of the victim, Aayush Chaku, 46, of Model Town Extension, was fished out of the canal in a decomposed state. The body was sent for postmortem, to ascertain the cause of death. However, cops said that no external injury marks were found on the body. Aayush, who worked in the public relations department of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, had gone missing on November 18, said inspector Inderjit Singh. The family had registered a missing person report the next day, after their own search came out futile. The victim’s father, Dr Tej Krishan Chaku, said on November 18 Aayush went out for a walk but did not return. He also said that his son had been depressed for a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianaeye-specialist-s-missing-son-found-dead-in-sidhwan-canal-101637871694137.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 weeks after paddy procurement in Punjab got over, Centre yet to release cost sheet||It has been more than 2 weeks since paddy procurement in Punjab got over and the mandis were shut on November 10, the Union ministry of food and public distribution has still not released the provisional cost sheet that details the amount of money it owes to the state government. Besides the minimum support price (MSP), cost sheet provides the rate of related incidentals such as rural development fund, mandi fee, arhtiyas fee and labour and transport charges. It also mentions the specifications on the quality of rice that the Centre gets from the state after shelling of paddy. State food and civil supplies department officials said the cost sheet has not been released even as they were assured by the Centre that it will be done on time. Over the years, the state used to receive the cost sheet at the onset of the procurement season but the Centre for the last years released it after the rabi and kharif seasons got over. This year, the state procurement agencies – Punsup, Pungrain, State Warehousing Corporation and Markfed – and the Centre’s Food Corporation of India (FCI) jointly procured 188 lakh tonne paddy and made a payment of ₹30,100 crore to farmers. A state food and civil supplies department official said, “We have not made payments to the transporters and labourers yet as there is no clarity on the rates by the Centre other than the MSP of ₹1,960 (for A-grade quality) for paddy.” “There was a time when payments to the arhtiyas were made simultaneously. We are still waiting for our dues to be paid. We have made payments to labourers engaged in cleaning of the produce,” said Vijay Kalra, president of the Punjab Arhtiya Association. There are 3,200 arhtiyas in the state who support the procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-weeks-after-paddy-procurement-in-punjab-got-over-centre-yet-to-release-cost-sheet-101637871692624.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir reports 182 fresh Covid infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 182 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Thursday. Of the total cases, 149 were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 33 fresh infections. Srinagar district now has the highest number of active cases at 584, followed by Baramulla and Ganderbal districts with 368 and 137 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 160, leaving 1,706 active cases.The government’s daily health bulletin also estimated the vaccine doses administered on Thursday at 53,369, taking overall doses in the UT to 1.647 crore. A total of 54,506 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Himachal logs 52 new cases
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Raja Bhaiya meets MSY, quashes alliance talk||The independent MLA from Kunda and Jansatta Dal Loktantrik president, Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya, met Samajwadi Party (SP) founder and chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav at the latter’s residence on Thursday triggering speculation that he might ally with SP again. However, he was quick to dispel those rumours.Raja Bhaiya tweeted a picture of him with Mulayam and wrote in Hindi: “Met respected Mulayam Singh ji after a long time, got his blessings...emotional moments”. The meeting – amidst SP chief Akhilesh Yadav trying to form alliances with several small parties one after the other – triggered speculations that he might ally with SP for the 2022 UP Assembly polls.Speaking to newspersons after the interaction with the SP chief patron, Raja Bhaiya dismissed the speculations saying that “nothing should be construed out of the meeting. I had been calling on Netaji (Mulayam) for years on his birthday to greet him and to seek his blessings. But this time (on Mulayam’s birthday, on November 22) I could not meet him because I was away. So, I met him today”.On November 22, Raja Bhaiya had greeted Mulayam on Twitter.The six-time MLA (all successive terms and as an independent) from Kunda (Pratapgarh) since 1993, Raja Bhaiya is a known party-hopper and had been a minister in the previous Akhilesh Yadav (SP) government, Mayawati (BSP) government, BJP governments under Kalyan Singh, Ram Prakash Gupta, and Rajnath Singh.He had resigned as minister from the Akhilesh Yadav government when he was accused in the murder of a police officer, Zia-ul-Haq. Later, a CBI court gave him a clean chit in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/raja-bhaiya-meets-msy-quashes-alliance-talk-101637871333410.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Killing of bovines: Hindu bodies block traffic in Ludhiana seeking culprit’s arrest||A day after bovine carcasses were found in Jeevan Nagar, members of different Hindu organisations staged a protest outside the police commissioner’s office on Thursday, demanding arrest of the culprits. The protestors also blocked traffic on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road outside the mini-secretariat for an hour. The protest was lifted after the police pacified the protesters. The protesters also issued a two-day ultimatum to the cops, and threatened to intensify the stir, if the miscreants were not arrested in the stipulated period. The Hindu organisations have also formed a Gau Hatya Sangharsh Committee to pursue the matter.Shiv Sena Punjab chairman Rajiv Tandon said that the accused had deliberately thrown the carcasses in a garbage dump behind the Jeevan Nagar police post to hurt religious sentiments of the Hindu community and disturb law and order in the state.“Such incidents were also reported in 1980 and 1986 when some people tried to instigate riots by throwing body parts of bovines outside religious place,” he added.The Hindu organisations also asked the police to check meat shops in the city. Punjab Gau Sewa Commission chairman Sachin Sharma alleged that it was the handiwork of a gang involved in smuggling of beef. “Such people wanted to disturb the law and order situation in Punjab,” he said. Commuters irkedHowever, commuters were at the receiving end of the stir, with traffic jams reported on Pakhowal road, Link Road, Mall road, Jagraon Bridge, Ghumar Mandi and surrounding areas.Manoj Gupta, a resident of Rajguru Nagar, said he was on his way to the railway station to receive is parents when he got stuck in traffic due to the protest. “Though, I am hurt by the incident as cows are sacred, but blocking the roads and inconveniencing the public is not justified.” Model Gram resident Gurmeet Singh said, “Traffic on Ferozepur Road already moves at snails’ pace, and in such conditions blocking the road should be a crime. Nowadays, it has become common to block roads in the city.A case has been registered under sections of the IPC and Cow Slaughter Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/killing-of-bovines-hindu-bodies-block-traffic-in-ludhiana-seeking-culprit-s-arrest-101637871153188.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||LESA searches for 1.36 lakh missing consumers||The Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) is unable to find around 1.36 lakh consumers, who have to pay ₹1,800 crore to LESA.In order to recover dues the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation recently launched the one time solution (OTS) scheme to give exemption in surcharge to defaulters to recover the dues. After the start of the scheme, LESA prepared a list of defaulters at the division level in the capital.According to a senior LESA official more than four lakh defaulters were on the list, but many of them were not traceable. Most of them are from areas like the Residency, Aminabad, Hussainganj, Aishbagh, Talkatora, Alambagh, Chowk, Chaupatia and Thakurganj.Insiders say most of these consumers are those who have applied for permanent disconnection, most of them have either died or left the houses and other people are living in them. Engineers of LESA say that it is almost impossible for them to find these customers, who have either sold their houses and shifted somewhere else, or died.Chief engineer LESA and MD Madhyanchal, Suryapal Gangwar, has already directed engineers of all the divisions to find the missing consumers and come out with final reports with the reasons why these consumers were not searched for earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lesa-searches-for-1-36-lakh-missing-consumers-101637870792803.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s threat to own govt: Will fast over drugs, sacrilege cases||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday threatened to go on an indefinite fast if his party’s state government does not make public the SIT report on the drug menace.Sidhu also once again questioned the state government over the steps taken for ensuring justice in desecration cases.Addressing a gathering a rally at a grain market in Baghapurana town, Sidhu said that lakhs of mothers had lost their sons to drugs and people were telling him to get justice for such families. “I am telling you, if the Punjab government does not make this (STF) report public, then Sidhu will proceed on fast unto death,” the Punjab Congress chief said, taking on his own government.Sidhu said there was no court order which barred making the report public. “Why is the report not being opened? We need to know why the previous chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh) slept over it. Who is stopping you from making the report public,” he said before pointing out his lack of administrative powers and limitations as the party president. Channi was also present at the rally, but left the venue minutes before the state chief’s address.Sidhu has been raising the pitch on the drug issue through his tweets and at party forums, repeatedly questioning the delay in action against “big fish” involved in drug trafficking. Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi are, however, not on the same page on making the STF report public. Contrary to Channi’s stand that the report is a court document, Sidhu says there is nothing stopping the government from making the report public. With his warning, he has once again upped the ante on the drug issue which is slated to come up before the high court on December 6.Sidhu also questioned the state government over the steps taken to deliver justice in desecration cases. “I am again demanding justice. One government has gone and the other one has been formed. One chief minister has gone and another one has taken over the office. And I am saying if justice of sacrilege is not given, I will sacrifice my body. Mark my words. Those who did (sacrilege) are roaming freely. What kind of government it is, if culprits are not brought to justice and it cannot take a step forward to bring justice?” he asked.Addressing the gathering, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced setting up of a nursing college in Baghapurana along with constructing a stadium on the name of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. He also announced upgrade of two existing hospitals in Baghapurana along with grants for Guru Nanak College and Sports Academy. The CM also announced to accord a sub-tehsil status to Smadh Bhai.‘Will fill state’s empty coffers’After the CM left the venue, Sidhu said: “Four years ago, such promises were made by the then CM (Capt Amarinder Singh). But these are yet to be fulfilled because the state government has no money. I will bring ₹2,000 crore to state exchequer from sand mining and ₹20,000 crore from excise on liquor. I will not form a government by lying. I will form a government after bringing ₹30,000-35,000 crore into the state exchequer”.Only Channi model can ensure holistic growth: CMRejecting any sort of Delhi model, CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said the state is witnessing Channi model, which stands for equal opportunities for all.Addressing the gathering during unveiling of the statue of Maharaja Agrasen at old grain market in Moga, the CM said this model is in unison with the teachings of the great Sikh Gurus, who have shown the way of equality and brotherhood.He said this model is being implemented for the progress of the state and prosperity of its people, adding that this model will be there till he is in this office. The model aims at the well-being being of people and holistic growth of the state, he added.The CM said this model does not allow any one person or family to plunder the resources of state. However, he said that Channi model is based on giving equal access to all for resources and opportunities in the state. He asked people to support this model, so that the pristine glory of the state can be restored again.Training his guns against AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said his (Kejriwal’s) Delhi model was nothing more than a ‘bundle of lies’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-threatens-indefinite-fast-asks-govt-to-make-stf-report-on-drugs-menace-public-101637870672869.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||UP Al-Qaeda case: NIA conducts raids across Kashmir||Teams of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted multiple raids across Kashmir in a case related to Al-Qaeda in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The raids and searches were conducted at five locations in Shopian and Budgam districts of the Valley. NIA spokesperson, in a statement, said the case pertains to Umar Halmandi, an Al-Qaeda operative, who along with other accused persons, had allegedly been radicalising and recruiting vulnerable persons for AQIS (Al-Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent) and trying to raise Ansaar Gajwatul Hind (AGH) to carry out terrorist acts for which they had already arranged arms and explosive substances. The NIA spokesperson said that a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices were found during the raids. On Monday, NIA had arrested human rights activist Khurram Parvaz after conducting raids at his office and residence at Sonwar and Amira Kadal localities. The raids were conducted in a terror funding case that was registered by the central probe agency under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act on November 6. Parvez is the programme coordinator of Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society and the chairperson of Asian Federation against Involuntary Disappearances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-al-qaeda-case-nia-conducts-raids-across-kashmir-101637870552488.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 23% decline in infant mortality rate||Himachal saw a 23% decline in the infant and child mortality rate in 2019-20 as compared to 2015-16, the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) revealed. The improvement was aided by increased institutional deliveries, immunisation and targeted mother and childcare schemes, it was stated. The infant mortality rate, which is the number of deaths per 1,000 births of children under the age of one, stood at 26 in the latest survey, as compared to 34 during National Family Health Survey-4 conducted in 2015-16. The infant mortality rate is generally higher in males during the neonatal period (the first month after birth), but in the post-neonatal period, it is higher in females.The survey revealed that the infant mortality rate is higher for scheduled castes (29) as compared to those not from scheduled castes (25). The infant mortality rate for other backward classes stood at 22 while that for scheduled tribes was 21. The survey found a significant connection between education and infant mortality risk, with the infant mortality rate being much higher for children whose mothers have less than 10 years of schooling (40 per 1,000 live births) than others (22 per 1,000 live births).Institutional deliveries on the riseThe survey revealed 88% of births take place in a health facility, mostly government-run, with home births accounting for only about 11%.“Institutional deliveries increased by 12% in the last four years. Institutional births are more common among women with 12 or more years of schooling, women who are having their first birth, and urban women,” it stated. At least 21% of births in the last five years were through caesarean section, with 36% of those being emergency procedures.The survey also revealed a majority of deliveries were supervised by skilled professionals. “Eighty-seven percent of births during the last five years took place with assistance from a skilled provider, and another 7% were delivered by a traditional birth attendant,” it stated.Further findings included a 91% rate of home births undertaking standard procedure.Vaccination numbers see a jumpThe hill-state also recorded a substantial increase of 17% in the vaccination of children since the last survey, as per latest findings. Nearly 9 in 10 children (89%) aged 12-23 months received all vaccinations against six major diseases, including tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio and measles. Additionally, 98% of children are at least partially vaccinated; only 2% have not received any vaccinations at all.Between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5, there was an increase in vaccination coverage for three doses of all basic vaccines: DPT (from 85% to 96%), measles (from 88% to 96%), BCG (from 95% to 98%) and polio vaccine (from 82% to 90%).“Overall, there was an encouraging change in the coverage of all basic vaccinations (from 70% to 89%). In addition, almost all (96%) children have received all three recommended doses of hepatitis B vaccine,” the survey found.Coverage for all basic vaccinations is higher in boys than girls (93% versus 86%) and for urban than rural areas (94% versus 89 %). The numbers are lowest among children belonging to scheduled tribes (87%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-23-decline-in-infant-mortality-rate-101637870132368.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP’s Raikot MLA joins Congress||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Punjab’s Raikot Jagtar Singh Jagga joined the Congress on Thursday, in a move that is being seen as a setback to the main opposition party in the state months before the assembly polls. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu welcomed Jagga into the party fold. To AAP’s embarrassment, Jagga during the Punjab assembly session earlier this month had crossed the floor of the House and joined the treasury benches as he called Channi, an “aam aadmi” (common man), fuelling speculation that he may join the Congress. Earlier this month, another AAP MLA from Punjab, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, had joined the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-raikot-mla-joins-congress-101637870072180.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Untimely rain, supply shortage, transport cost jack up vegetable prices in Lucknow||Untimely rain in several parts of the country in the last two weeks and increase in demand due to marriage season has resulted in a steep hike in the prices of vegetables. Prices of almost all vegetables, which are brought from outside the state, have nearly doubled this month, say traders. They also attribute the price rise to reduction in supply due to foggy conditions. Besides, farmers have to pay more to transport their produce due to steep fuel prices.“The price of tomatoes has increased from ₹40 to ₹80 per kilogram in the past three weeks. The price of onions has also gone up from ₹30 to ₹40. The rate of carrot has also reached ₹100 from 80, while capsicum is being sold at ₹120 a kg from ₹70 a month ago. Peas are being sold currently at ₹120 per kg,” said a vegetable trader in the state capital.Like tubers, prices of gourds have also soared. For instance, the price of bottle gourd has increased from ₹30 to ₹50 per kg while the price of bitter gourd has witnessed a hike of around ₹60 and is being sold at ₹100 a kg. The price of pumpkin has also gone up in the past two weeks to ₹40 a kg.“The demand for vegetables has gone up because there is a reduction in the supply caused by fog and untimely rain in many parts, last week,” said Surendra Kumar, a local agricultural economist. “The prices of several vegetables are likely to keep soaring for the next two weeks,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/untimely-rain-supply-shortage-transport-cost-jack-up-vegetable-prices-in-lucknow-101637870012164.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||NGT panel pulls up Ludhiana MC over lack of waste segregation||The municipal corporation, which is already facing brickbats after the industrial town slid in swachhta rankings, has now been pulled up by the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for failing to carry out waste segregation in the city. The committee members also slammed the civic body for failing to kick off the project to dispose of around 20-lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste at the main dump site on Tajpur Road. The committee led by its chairperson, retired justice Jasbir Singh, carried out inspections in the city on Thursday to verify the municipal corporation’s claims pertaining to solid waste management under its environmental action plan. Environmentalists such as Balbir Seechewal, and Babu Ram were also part of the committee that carried out inspections. The committee members inspected four static compactors and secondary dumps in Block J of Sarabha Nagar, the Jawahar Nagar camp near Chatter Singh park in Model Town and Rishi Nagar. The team noted that waste segregation was not seen in any of the 40 secondary dump sites in the city.Justice Singh (retd) said, “There is some improvement, but waste segregation is not taking place. Authorities have been directed to focus on segregation, otherwise NGT will take action against them and penalties can also be imposed in the coming time.” He also appealed residents to cooperate with the MC by handing over segregated wet and dry waste to the garbage collectors.Seechewal said,” The MC has been claiming that waste segregation is going on in majority areas of the city, but nothing is being done on ground level. The matter will be taken up by the NGT during the next hearing and the tribunal will then take suitable action.” Green belts get praise However, the monitoring committee did appreciate the municipal corporation for transforming the two dump sites into green belts in Kochar market area and Rishi Nagar.  The teams also inspected the ongoing work of establishing a sewer treatment plant (STP) in Jamalpur area to reduce pollution in the Buddha Nullah. A dyeing unit was also inspected to check dumping of untreated waste by the unit owner in the industrial area near Cheema Chowk, but the unit was not operational.Meanwhile, the MC field staff could be seen cleaning some secondary dump sites ahead of the committee’s visit.No processing of waste at dump site With over 20 lakh metric tonnes of waste dumped at the main dump site on Tajpur Road, the committee slammed the MC for not taking steps to dispose of the waste, despite the waste polluting air and water in the area. No processing of waste is being done on the site after A2Z company terminated its contract with the MC on February 4. Over 1,100 metric tonnes of waste is generated in the city on a daily basis and the waste is accumulating on the site.  Residents have been raising hue and cry over frequent fire incidents reported at the dump site due to emission of highly combustible methane gas, which causes air pollution. Fire had also broken out at the site before the visit of the committee and a fire brigade was deployed to douse the flames. MC officials say the process to hire a firm has been initiated. Earlier this year, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had imposed a penalty of ₹1.8 crore on the MC for failing to deal with legacy waste and bank guarantees of ₹21 lakh were also imposed over its failure to take up solid waste management in the city. The committee members said that the penalty can increase if required steps are not taken in the coming time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-panel-pulls-up-ludhiana-mc-over-lack-of-waste-segregation-101637869833380.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: BJP core group decides to take action against dissenters||After two days of brainstorming, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to take action against its leaders who worked against the party’s official nominees in the recently concluded bypolls to one Parliamentary and three assembly seats in Himachal. The party’s chief spokesperson, Randhir Sharma said, “The core group has expressed concern over the growing indiscipline in the party and such matters will be dealt with firmly. The party will prepare a list of those who worked against the party candidates and they would be issued show-cause notices. The list will further be sent to the party high-command for action.” BJP’s extended core group met on Thursday to deliberate upon the reasons for the poll debacle and draw strategy for the assembly election slated next year. The state executive of the party will meet on Friday, with national president Jagat Parkash Nadda set to address the meeting virtually. “Party leaders also held the Covid-19 induced inflation as one of the reasons for its defeat in the election. Covid has impacted the economy adversely, while inflation also hurt the party’s prospects in the elections,” said Sharma while adding that Congress candidates gained sympathy votes.Lack of coordination between the party and the government was also one of the reasons cited by a few leaders during the meeting. Many were critical of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government’s functioning, sources said. The core group has recommended dropping non-performing chairpersons and vice chairpersons of different boards and corporations. The group discussed the completion of four years of the state government and its achievements during this period. Himachal BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna said, “The election result is an eye-opener for us and we will prepare for 2022 assembly elections with more vigour. We will work on our shortcomings.” Khanna further said, “The BJP has not done anything wrong to hang its head in shame. Our government at the Centre and state launched various public welfare schemes such as Kisan Samman Nidhi, Ayushman Bharat, Him Care and Ujwala Yojana in the public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-core-group-decides-to-take-action-against-dissenters-101637869772311.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to support teachers sitting on dharna In Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will come to Punjab on Saturday in support of the protesting teachers in the state. Kejriwal is visiting the state in support of the teachers sitting on dharna in Mohali and on the overhead water tank, according to a party release. During his recent two-day visit to the state, Kejriwal had appealed to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to immediately accede to the demands of qualified unemployed teachers so that they can call off their strike and go back to their homes happily and teach the students in government schools who are longing for teachers. Kejriwal also warned that if the Channi government did not address the issue of the struggling teachers immediately, he (Kejriwal) himself would be compelled to join the dharna of these unemployed teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-support-teachers-sitting-on-dharna-in-punjab-101637869712390.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal man found murdered||A 34-year-old man was allegedly found with his throat slit in fields near Taraori town of Karnal on Thursday.Police said deceased Amandeep Singh was a resident of Nilokheri town and was working in a pharmaceutical unit in Karnal. His family told police that he was missing since Wednesday evening and had not returned home.Gagandeep Singh, father of the deceased, said they searched for him but did not get any clue.Police said the family does not suspect anybody as they did not have any enmity with anyone.According to Manoj Kumar, in-charge of Taraori police station, the cause of death can be ascertained after post-mortem. Police have registered an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC and started probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-man-found-murdered-101637869595422.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal, Pargat in Twitter war over quality of school education in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab education minister Pargat Singh on Thursday took potshots at each other over the quality of school education in the poll-bound state. Kejriwal said the Punjab education minister was claiming that his state had the best schools and teachers were very happy. “Those who are happy with schools and the existing education system in Punjab should vote for the Congress. Those who also want in Punjab the spectacular education system that we have in Delhi should vote for us,” the AAP national convener tweeted on Pargat’s claim of a revolution taking place in education in Punjab. The Punjab education minister immediately hit back with a series of tweets, telling Kejriwal that Punjab being better than Delhi (in education) was not his personal opinion as he (AAP leader) was insinuating but based on an official national survey. “Punjab having almost 1.5 times more teachers than Delhi for the same number of students is not an opinion or a “jumla”. In fact, it is based on an answer to a question asked by the Lok Sabha member from Punjab @BhagwantMann ji on 2nd August this year. I am really grateful to him,” he tweeted before talking about the state’s “fair and transparent” online transfer policy. “The political sagacity of people of Punjab is never in doubt as they can easily make the difference between “asli” and “nakli” as they did in 2017 and 2019,” he wrote in another tweet. The AAP, the principal opposition party in Punjab, replied to Pargat’s comments by tweeting photos of waterlogged schools with the caption, “Vote for Congress to get such Government Schools”. Kejriwal retweeted the post without offering any comment. The war of words between Kejriwal and Pargat was set off by the former’s eight promises to teachers in Punjab during his two-day trip to the poll-bound state, following which Pargat hit back, call it a “cheap gimmick”. Sisodia challenges Pargat Giving an open challenge to Punjab education minister, Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Thursday asked him to compare his state’s 10 government schools with that of Punjab’s. Speaking on the sidelines of a party event organised at the CII, Chandigarh, Sisodia, who also is Delhi education minister, said: “I give an open invitation to the education minister of Punjab to visit Delhi’s 10 government schools and I will visit same number of schools which the Punjab minister considers state’s best.” Stating that elections should be fought on issue of education, Sisodia, said: “If the Punjab education system is best, people will opt for Congress and if it is Delhi’s then the people will elect the AAP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-pargat-in-twitter-war-over-quality-of-school-education-in-punjab-101637869594371.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Erratic water supply in Dugri village: Women lead protest with ‘boliyan’, ‘dholak’||It was with vociferous boliyans and dholaks that the women of Dugri village, who are leading the protest against erratic water supply in the area, trumpeted their decision to boycott Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains in the upcoming assembly elections for failing to resolve their issue on Thursday.The move comes a day after the residents took the area’s Congress councillor and state government to task for their lackadaisical attitude towards the water issue. The residents said that they will vote against the parties that had failed to resolve the issue of erratic water supply, which has been plaguing two streets in the area for the last 15 years, forcing them to bring water in buckets and through pipes from neighbours with submersible pumps.The protesters alleged that the MLA had never visited the area to hear the residents’ grievances. One of the protesting women, Rupinder Kaur said,” Sometimes water is not supplied in the area for two to three days. The councillor and MLA have been elected to resolve the residents’ problems. However, MLA Bains has failed to show up in the last five years.Komal and Navjot Kaur said they will only vote in favour of the candidate who will get the problem resolved. Congress Councillor Reet Kaur’s husband, Rupinder Sheela, had also slammed Bains for not showing up in the area during his tenure and turning a blind eye to the problems being faced by residents. ‘We are making efforts to resolve the problem, but Bains is least bothered,” Sheela had said.Despite attempts were made to reach MLA Bains, he was not available for comments. Meanwhile LIP spokesperson, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth said that it is the duty of councillor and MC officials to streamline water supply. But if the councillor has failed to do so then the residents should submit a complaint with MLA Bains and the matter will be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/erratic-water-supply-in-dugri-village-women-lead-protest-with-boliyan-dholak-101637869593171.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar to learn Japanese, takes admission in Kurukshetra University||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has become the first student to take admission in a three-month online basic certificate course in Japanese culture and language at the Kurukshetra University.As per a statement released by the university, the CM had recently taken admission and said there is no age limit to learn and one should keep improving their skills and knowledge.Khattar said he has a passion for learning foreign languages and has thus enrolled for the course.Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated the CM on becoming the first student of the course.Dean faculty of arts and languages and chairperson, department of foreign languages Prof Brajesh Sawhney said this basic certificate course will cover Japanese history, life values, basics of Japanese writing and pronunciation, vocabulary, basic greetings used in daily life and business meetings.He said the course has been designed according to the New Education Policy, 2020. The online program is tailored specifically to the needs of government representatives and higher officers in government and educational institutions so that collaborations in the field of business, economy, research and education can be established between India and Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-to-learn-japanese-takes-admission-in-kurukshetra-university-101637869472926.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Portraits of 3 personalities installed at Central Sikh Museum||Portraits of three Sikh personalities --- Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee former general secretary Jathedar Kuldeep Singh Wadala, Baba Ram Singh Nanaksar Singhra, Karnal, and Baba Didar Singh Harkhowal Wale --- were installed in the Central Sikh Museum on Thursday.After the “ardas” (prayer), the portraits were unveiled by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur in the presence of head granthi of Harmandar Sahib Giani Jagtar Singh and others.Speaking on this occasion, Kaur said Jathedar Kuldeep Singh Wadala, Baba Ram Singh and Baba Didar Singh have rendered special services to the Sikh Panth. While Wadala served as the general secretary of SGPC, he worked for 18 years for the Kartarpur Corridor. Similarly, Baba Ram Singh and Baba Didar Singh were great personalities devoted to the Sikh faith, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/portraits-of-3-personalities-installed-at-central-sikh-museum-101637869412345.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mission Punjab will present model for nation in 2024: Charuni||Senior farm leader and national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday said Mission Punjab will present a model for the whole nation in the 2024 general elections on how a pro-people government should work.“The model will present hope that people want change and will choose a government of farmers and labourers. If a pro-people government is elected over a pro-corporate one, it will work for people, and send a good message to voters for the 2024 polls,” Charuni said.He was in Ambala to address farmers and activists at a ‘Samvidhan Bachao’ rally along with minority community leader Kanta Aladiya.Earlier, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had slammed the political ambitions of Charuni and said SKM was not formed for political agendas and morcha leaders are against Charuni’s political statements.In Karnal, he had also announced to oppose Charuni with black flags if he holds any programme in Punjab, thus the feud became public.On being asked about this, Charuni said he won’t contest elections in Punjab but will campaign and help others to do so.He is also willing to field candidates from all 117 constituencies of the state in the assembly elections.“If Rajewal and SKM will show us black flags, they will be opposing local farmers who have invited us. There is no other option than politics to bring change as the lawmakers are working for the corporates,” he said.Considered one of the firebrand leaders of the SKM, Charuni had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections from Ladwa constituency.His wife, Balwinder Kaur had also fought from the Kurukshetra seat in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate, but lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mission-punjab-will-present-model-for-nation-in-2024-charuni-101637869353712.html
26-11-2021||Other||Agra-Mumbai flight to resume from Dec 13||Direct flight between Agra and Mumbai is to resume with Indigo Airlines set to re-start operations from December 13. The flight would be operational thrice a week. Agra to Mumbai flight was originally launched from July 22 but despite drawing good response, it was discontinued. Director of Kheria Airport, AA Ansari said that the flight for Agra will take off at 12.45 pm from Chatrapati Shivaji Terminal in Mumbai and would reach Agra at 2.55 pm. The return flight from Agra would start at 3.25 pm from Kheria Airport and would land in Mumbai at 5.35 pm. The journey time will be 2 hours and 10 minutes. “The flight would be operational thrice a week, each Monday, Wednesday and Friday from December 13. The flight schedule has been received from Indigo Airlines,” confirmed Ansari. Rakesh Chauhan, the president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Agra said the resumption of direct flight between Agra and Mumbai was a good development. “Hope this service continues without a break as disruptions take away the benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agramumbai-flight-to-resume-from-dec-13-101637869292373.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||135 gazetted officers deputed for night domination ops in Punjab: DGP||Punjab Police have deputed 135 gazetted officers (GOs) of different ranks for night domination operations to prevent any kind of terrorist or criminal activity across the state. In a statement, director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said that night patrolling has been intensified in compliance with the orders of deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Randhawa, while chairing a crime review meeting in Amritsar on Tuesday, had directed the police force to increase night patrolling across the state to ensure that law and order is maintained. The deputy CM, on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, had himself made surprise calls to the GOs deputed for night patrolling to ensure that they are on their job, according to an official release. The DGP said that every police district has been divided into sectors and one gazetted officer of DSP or SP rank has been deputed for each sector. “Apart from the routine naka checking or vehicle checking, the deputed GOs have also been directed to keep vigil at vulnerable spots like railway stations, bus stands, religious places, RSS shakhas and other vital spots,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/135-gazetted-officers-deputed-for-night-domination-ops-in-punjab-dgp-101637869112116.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Arrest of HPSC official: Opposition accuses govt of diluting probe, Khattar govt rebuts accusation||Accusing the BJP-JJP government in Haryana of trying to cover up the “job scam” in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday said the government is trying to dilute the investigations.Substantiating his point, the former Haryana minister, at a press conference, said, “While the state vigilance bureau (SVB) in its remand application of November 23 before the court said HPSC deputy secretary Anil Nagar was arrested from the HPSC office with ₹1.07 crore bribe money in the presence of a duty magistrate, the chief minister, in a press briefing on the same day, categorically denied this.”Haryana govt’s stanceClarifying the allegations levelled by Surjewala, a Haryana government spokesperson said ₹1.07 crore was originally recovered from the house of accused Ashwani Sharma in Jamalpur village of Jhajjar during a search. The money recovered from Sharma’s house was to be paid to Anil Nagar.“In order to verify this fact, Sharma, who was in police custody, was made to contact Nagar and was asked by Nagar to hand over the money to him in his office. Nagar was arrested by the investigating team while accepting the bribe amount of Rs. 1.07 crore from Sharma,” the spokesperson said.“Therefore, doubts being raised by certain sections regarding recovery in the case have no basis. The investigation is proceeding in a fair and impartial manner strictly as per law with a view to successfully prosecute the offenders,” the spokesperson said.Earlier, Surjewala had said Anil Nagar’s lawyers have already mentioned about non-recovery of any amount. “This means the lawyer and the chief minister are on the same page. This is belying the stated position of the state vigilance bureau,” he said,The Congress leader said in criminal law, the moment you deny the spot of recovery, the recovery itself comes under serious doubt.“By implication, the chief minister is giving a free pass. By negating his own vigilance bureau’s stated position about the recovery of bribe money, the chief minister has weakened the SVB’s case against Nagar,” he maintained.The Congress general secretary also questioned as to why an accused in the case, Jasbir Malik, whose Safedot e-solution did online application work for the HPSC, was not arrested and interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arrest-of-hpsc-official-opposition-accuses-govt-of-diluting-probe-khattar-govt-rebuts-accusation-101637869052215.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda AIIMS rolls out centre of excellence for medical professionals||In a thrust to skill development in patient care, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, on Thursday inaugurated a centre of excellence (CoE) in the health sector.Punjab technical education, employment generation and training minister Rana Gurjeet Singh said in the first batch under the novel initiative, 31 nurses are being trained as respiratory therapists.“These paramedics will be imparted training in handling ventilators and basic management of the intensive care unit (ICU),” he said.Funded by the Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship, the Punjab government has collaborated with AIIMS for skill upgrade of medical and paramedical professionals.A first-of-its-kind project was conceptualised when the country was passing through the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.Nodal officer of the centre and head of urology department at AIIMS Dr Kanwaljit Singh said the skill upgrade will give a new dimension to the healthcare sector.“During Covid-19 outbreak, challenges in the healthcare sector were realised. As hospitals were equipped with ventilators under the PMCare initiative, it was seen that there were not enough professionals in the country to use the ventilators. There were reports across India that the life-saving machines were left disused due to lack of people,” said Dr Singh.The premier medical institute of Punjab has been mandated to train 260 qualified nurses in respiratory therapy within a year. There is no fee and expenses for boarding, lodging and food of candidates will be funded by the centre government.Nurses with degrees or diplomas with two-year experience with Punjab domicile are eligible for the current programme.Director of employment generation and training of Punjab MK Aravind said the centre of excellence that started operating this month will improve career options for the medical professionals.“Candidates selected through written tests will undergo comprehensive training by experts for free for three months. More such specialised programmes will be introduced in a phased manner to cater to the requirement for doctors and paramedic professionals,” he added.Sandeep Singh Kaura, adviser to the state government for skill development and technical education, said AIIMS certified paramedics will be assisted for better employment in hospitals across Punjab.‘Govt considering regulatory authority for education sector’The minister said the Punjab government is considering constitution of a regulatory authority for higher education. He said the standard of education can be improved only if there is a transparent mechanism to audit the quality of education.“During a recent cabinet meeting, I had suggested formulating a regulatory mechanism in the technical education. There is a need to fix accountability when people are spending money in different courses,” he told reporters.The minister was in Bathinda to chair a 6th inter-zonal youth festival-2021 “Maan Watna Da” at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-aiims-rolls-out-centre-of-excellence-for-medical-professionals-101637868932198.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC defers hearing on plea challenging 75% reservation law||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday deferred hearing on a plea challenging the Haryana government’s law providing 75% reservation in private sector industries to domiciles of the state. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli deferred the hearing for December 10 after the petitioner, the Gurgaon Industrial Association, sought time for making amendments in the parties arrayed as respondents in the case. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 was notified earlier this month. The law provides for 75% reservation to local youth in private sector jobs that offered monthly salary of less than ₹30,000. It will come into effect from January 15, 2022. It covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms. The law will be applicable for 10 years. The petitioner, the Gurgaon Industrial Association, argues that the law is against provisions of the Constitution and also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive. It will affect the industry productivity and industrial competitiveness and post recovery of industry due to Covid-19, the plea says, arguing that the government by introducing this policy of “son of the soils” want to create reservation in private sector, which is an infringement of constitutional rights of the employees and citizens of India because private sector jobs are based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-defers-hearing-on-plea-challenging-75-reservation-law-101637868872135.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cane-growers stare at huge losses due to poor yield||Even as a ₹12 hike in the sugarcane state advised price (SAP) was announced by the state government taking it to ₹362 (the highest in country), the sugarcane-growers of Haryana stare at a bitter harvest this year as pest attack severely affected the crop yield.As per reports collected from the sugarcane belts of Haryana, the farmers were expecting around 100 to 150 quintal crop loss per acre causing loss of around ₹30,000 to ₹50,000 per acre.“I have harvested one acre so far and the average yield has come down to below 250 quintal per acre from 400 quintal of last year due to pest attack,” said farmer Parveen Kumar, who has 13 acre under sugarcane in Nilokheri, Karnal.Another farmer Roshan Lal, of Yamunanagar, said he was expecting around 30-35% crop loss in sugarcane cultivation from his 26 acres this year.“I have never experienced such a huge loss in the past 20 years. I think this year, most farmers will shift to other crops and shun sugarcane cultivation,” he added.Moreover, farmers said this year, the production cost has increased as they had to spend on pesticides to protect their crop but to no avail.Figures of the Haryana state agriculture department revealed that despite an increase in the area under sugarcane having reached 1.10 lakh hectare from 99,000 hectare of last year, cane production in state is likely to dip to around 84.50 lakh tonne against 85.32 lakh tonne of last year.As per figures, officials expected yield of 768 quintal per hectare from 861 quintal of last year which is the lowest since 2016-17.While crushing operations in all cooperative and private sugarmills in state have already started, officials of the sugarmills said due to poor yield, most mills in state might be facing difficulties to meet set targets.There are reports that private sugarmills are attracting farmers associated with the cooperative sugarmills to meet their required target.On Wednesday, farmers protested at Karnal’s cooperative sugarmill alleging that the mill was running below capacity. The protesting farmers accused the mill authorities of allowing farmers of other districts to sell their produce in Karnal.Vijender Chaudhary, managing director of the Shahbad cooperative sugarmill, said, “There were reports that pest attack has affected the yield this year, but we are hopeful that we will achieve our target of crushing 80 lakh quintal.”Experts said most of the cane crop was affected in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Yamunanagar districts.Dr Mehar Chand, a sugarcane expert and member secretary of the Haryana Kisan Ayog, said, “Severe attack of top borer, especially in largely grown Co-238 variety, is likely to have an adverse impact on the yield causing losses to farmers.”He advised farmers to adopt inter-cropping method to avoid losses and choose crop varieties carefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cane-growers-stare-at-huge-losses-due-to-poor-yield-101637868693496.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu says Capt stalled his proposed law to end Fastway monopoly||Amid the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on the premises owned by the Fastway Cable TV Network, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday accused the Badals and former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of perpetuating its monopoly in the state. Sidhu said the Badals made laws to protect the network’s monopoly whereas Capt Amarinder stalled a law proposed by him which would have ended its monopoly. “Fastway has 3-4 times TV connections than data it is sharing with govt. Badals made laws to protect its monopoly... @capt_amarinder stalled my proposed law which would have ended fastway monopoly, got revenue for state per connection & reduced TV cable prices for people to half,” he alleged in a tweet. The Punjab Congress chief also tweeted that he had proposed a new law in 2017 to recover state taxes from Fastway by taking control over computers and data which would have freed the cable operators from clutches of this monopoly and filled state coffers. “5 yrs ago, I put forward policy to get rid of Multi Systems Operator- Fastway’s monopoly, to recover 1000s of crores taxes, empower local operators & give cheap cable to people… without necessary action against fastway, it is erroneous to suggest solution of Punjab’s cable woes (sic),” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-says-capt-stalled-his-proposed-law-to-end-fastway-monopoly-101637868692014.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||4 cops booked for registering false drugs case in Jalandhar||Police have booked four Jalandhar cops for allegedly registering a false drugs case in 2019. The accused have been identified as then SHO, Bhogpur, Naresh Kumar, now retired, assistant sub-inspectors Sukhjit Singh and Sarwan Singh and head constable Satpal Singh of the Jalandhar rural police. No action was taken against the then deputy superintendent of police (security), Makhan Singh, who was also indicted in the probe. The petitioner, Paramjit Singh, approached the Punjab and Haryana high court and contended that he was not apprehended at the spot shown in the FIR even as per the recording from the CCTV camera, the contraband was shown to be recovered from his shop. On October 5, the high court ordered that the FIR has been admittedly incorrectly recorded and criminal proceedings should be initiated against all those responsible for recording a false FIR.The inspector general of police, Jalandhar range, is directed to file his response to the observation of this court by November 29, the court said.Meanwhile, Naresh Kumar also approached the high court and his application of being added as a respondent in the case has been allowed. In June 2019, the Jalandhar rural police conducted raid at Miglani chemist shop in the Benipalke village of Bhogpur area and arrested Paramjit Singh and seized intoxicating substances whereas police had shown the recovery and arrest of the accused from 100 yards far from his shop. The police also filed a chargesheet against the accused in the district and sessions court of Jalandhar. According to the police probe the accused cops and then deputy superintendent of police (security) Makhan Singh changed the spot of the recovery and arrested the accused, violating the mandatory provisions of the NDPS Act. Following the report, Jalandhar SSP (rural) Satinder Singh recommended an FIR against the erring cops. A case has been registered under Sections 58 (punishment for vexatious entry, search, seizure or arrest) and 59 (failure of officer in duty or his connivance at the contravention of the provisions) of the NDPS Act at the Bhogpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-cops-booked-for-registering-false-drugs-case-in-jalandhar-101637868572281.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||57 points rise in Haryana’s sex ratio at birth in five years: Survey||The Haryana government on Thursday said the findings of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) of 57-point rise in the sex-ratio at birth (SRB) in the last five years is a testament of effective implementation of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme in state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the programme from Panipat in January 2015 when Haryana was coping with low sex ratio.“Soon after launch of the programme, proactive measures were taken to enhance the sex ratio and to wipe out the menace of female foeticide,” said additional principal secretary (to CM) Dr Amit Agarwal, adding that a cell was immediately constituted in this regard and started functioning in May 2015.“Thereafter, comprehensive steps were taken to deal with the malpractice of sex determination and female foeticide. In the last five years, about 1,000 raids were conducted. Of these, 275 were inter-state and 970 FIRs were registered with regard to sex determination and the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act,” he said.He added that the sex ratio at birth of Haryana was 871 females per 1,000 males in December 2014 as per the Civil Registration System (CRS) which improved to 922 females per 1,000 males in December, 2020.As per the NFHS-4 (2015-1016), the SRB was 836 females per 1,000 males and has now increased by 57 points to 893.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/57-points-rise-in-haryana-s-sex-ratio-at-birth-in-five-years-survey-101637868391834.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 41 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Punjab on Thursday reported 41 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,132, according to a medical bulletin.Two Covid-related fatalities were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts, taking the death toll to 16,591. The state’s positivity rate was 0.18%, the bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state rose to 314. Among fresh cases, maximum 11 were registered in Pathankot and five each in Jalandhar and Patiala. With 20 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,227, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-41-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-101637868332133.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||NIA files chargesheet against Khalistani separatist Hardeep Nijjar||The NIA has filed a chargesheet before a special court here on Thursday against a Canada-based terrorist for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy to carry out attacks in India after arranging arms and ammunition from Pakistan, an official said.The chargesheet was filed under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Hardeep Singh Nijjar, originally hailing from Jalandhar and currently residing in Surrey, Canada, the official of the premier investigation agency said.The case relates to a conspiracy hatched by Nijjar of proscribed terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) and others to carry out terrorist attacks in India, said the official of the National Investigation Agency (NIA).He used to send funds to India through various money transfer service scheme (MTSS) services and hawala channels for developing a network of sympathisers for undertaking targeted killings in Punjab and was trying to arrange arms and ammunition from his Pakistan-based associates for executing his nefarious plans, the official said.Nijjar is also associated with US-based banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) and has been trying to radicalise the Sikh community across the world in favour of creation of Khalistan, the NIA official said.He has been trying to incite Sikhs to vote for secession, agitate against the Government of India and carry out violent activities through various posts, audio messages and videos posted on social media, the official said.Nijjar has been designated as a terrorist under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-khalistani-separatist-hardeep-nijjar-101637868211978.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar accepts voluntary retirement of IPS officer Bharti Arora||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday accepted the premature retirement request of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Bharti Arora, currently posted as the inspector general of police (IGP), Ambala range.While the official order is yet to be issued, it has been learnt that the 1998-batch IPS officer will be relieved by the end of this month. She held the charge of IGP for nearly seven months.She is the wife of Haryana cadre IPS officer Vikas Arora, currently posted as commissioner of police (CP), Faridabad.The decision comes nearly four months after she sought voluntary retirement via a letter to chief secretary Vijai Vardhan through the then DGP Manoj Yadava on July 24 and had asked to be relieved by July 31.In her letter, Arora had cited that she wanted to dedicate the rest of her life “in devotion of Lord Krishna.” Reiterating her stance after the decision now, she said she will soon move to Vrindavan in devotion of God.“I’m really grateful to the government for imposing trust in me during my service and for all kind words written for reconsidering my decision. For once, I thought to stay back but then I decided to move on for the purpose for which I took this decision,” she told HT.Weeks after her request in July, state home minister Anil Vij had urged the officer to reconsider the decision. However, she did not and the home ministry sent her file to the chief minister’s office for consideration.During her 23-year service, Arora handled many prominent investigations, including the Samjhauta blast probe as the superintendent of police of GRP in 2007.Most recently, she had headed an SIT during her stint as Karnal range IGP and then in Ambala to look into immigration fraud cases in state. The team was awarded by the home ministry for the probe earlier this year.As Ambala SP, during a protest in 2009, she had arrested Vij, who was then an MLA and in 2015, she had a run-in with her senior colleague Navdeep Singh Virk during a probe in a rape case in Gurugram.She had headed a unique cow protection police task force as a deputy inspector general-rank officer and the principal of Motilal Nehru School of Sports at Rai in Sonepat, both in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-accepts-voluntary-retirement-of-ips-officer-bharti-arora-101637868151997.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Show-cause notice to 82 sanitation workers found absent from duty||Taking a serious note of irresponsible behaviour towards their jobs, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday issued show-cause notices to 82 safaikarmacharis for being absent from duty.A day before, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra had warned all chief sanitary inspectors and sanitary inspectors to remain in field during the morning shift (starting 7am) and the afternoon shift (starting 3pm) besides ensuring proper attendance of the safaikarmacharis, along with proper cleaning of their respective areas.The commissioner had directed the inspectors to submit a daily report of absent employees and a pictorial report of the cleaning of their respective area. On Thursday, during the attendance time, 82 safaikarmacharis were found absent from their duty, including eight regular safaikarmachari, 14 daily wagers and 60 safaikarmacharis from outsourced firms (Three from RR Enterprises and 57 from Eagle Eye Security & House Keeping Services). The regular employees as well as daily wagers have been issued show-cause notices for being absent from duty while the firms have been served notice for taking action against their employees found absent on Thursday as per the conditions of agreement and intimate the Chandigarh MC about the action taken.It may be noted here that in the recently released report of Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh’s rank dropped from eight to 16 among 48 cities with population above 10 lakh. The overall score also dipped from 83% to 71%, leading to the repatriation of medical officer of health Dr Amrit Pal Singh Warring to Punjab over his poor performance. Following this, the UT adviser has fixed the responsibilities of various departments and will hold fortnightly review meetings to ensure an improvement in rankings during the Swachh Survekshan 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-show-cause-notice-to-82-sanitation-workers-found-absent-from-duty-101637867912022.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet gives nod to ink MoU with to ‘improve in-house capacities’||The Haryana cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to ink a memorandum of understanding between the National Institute for Smart Government (NISG) and the state government to bring in the experience and expertise of the public and private sector to “enhance and improve in-house capacities”.An official spokesperson said this MoU will be valid for five years from the date of signing which may be extended further up to five years by mutual consent of both parties.As per the MoU, the state government and the NISG may nominate coordinators as nodal officers to represent the parties and promote interface so as to plan, implement, monitor and review the schedules of various activities from time to time.They will identify mutually agreed areas of work for projects or assignments to be undertaken, for which individual governing agreements will be separately entered into by the Haryana government represented by the secretaries, heads of departments, PSUs, boards, organisations, institutions, and bodies concerned.The NISG is a not-for-profit company set up by the central government on the public-private-partnership (PPP) model with the secretary, Union ministry of electronics and information technology as its chairman.NISG is shaped as an institution of excellence in e-governance to assist governments for ushering in smart governance, process reforms and digitisation. It has been at the forefront of e-governance initiatives in India and contributed towards improvement in government processes and establishment of service delivery systems resulting in faster and simpler service delivery to end-users, including citizens and businesses.The Cabinet also accorded the approval for framing of the Transport Department Haryana (Group B) Service Rules, 2021.An official spokesperson said the rules have been drafted for bringing in efficiency and reforms in the department.Meanwhile, the cabinet on Thursday decided that the winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha will begin from December 17. The session is likely to be a three-day affair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-gives-nod-to-ink-mou-with-to-improve-in-house-capacities-101637867853707.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Kovind says new education policy will strengthen regional languages||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said the new education policy (NEP) would strengthen the regional languages as it recommends their promotion in research and scientific education.Kovind also said this would be in line with Mahatma Gandhi’s vision and the new education policy would play an important role in making the country a knowledge superpower.Kovind was speaking at the centenary celebrations of Harcourt Butler Technological University (HBTU) in Kanpur.Girl students should be encouraged in the field of technical education, he said.“The participation of girls in technical education was not satisfactory. I have been to numerous convocations and have found the girls excelling and their performance impressive. Their participation in this field (technical educations) needs to get better and encouraged, and boost women empowerment in the true spirit,” he said.He asked HBTU to improve its national rankings and break into top 25 institutes of the country by 2047. President Kovind emphasised on the need for innovation and technology development in the country.“Only those countries remain at the forefront that give priority to these two aspects and prepare their citizens for future challenges,” Kovind said. India has moved rapidly in the field of technology development, but a long road is still ahead, he said.“Institutes like HBTU become important in this context. The technical institutions should inculcate the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship in students,” Kovind said.It should be done in a way the students become job givers rather than being job seekers, thus making a contribution to the country, Kovind suggested.He underlined the importance of making Kanpur a garbage-free city and the role that the institutes of higher education, industrial research, people and students can play.“A cue can be taken from Indore city in the field of cleanliness and Kanpur should rank in the top five most clean cities,” he said.The President released a coffee table book, university history book, postal stamp and commemorative coin on the occasion. Kovind also inaugurated 10 buildings.HBTU is one of the oldest engineering institutes of the country and has completed 100 years this year. It was named after Spencer Harcourt Butler, who was the governor of the then United Provinces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kovind-says-new-education-policy-will-strengthen-regional-languages-101637867852306.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||“Swarnim Vijay Mashaal” welcomed at NCR HQ in Prayagraj||As part of commemorative events of 50 years of Indian victory in 1971 Indo-Pak War, “Swarnim Vijay Mashaal” (victory torch) reached North Central Railway (NCR) headquarters, on Thursday. The mashaal was handed over to NCR general manager Pramod Kumar by Brig Ajay Pasbola, deputy GOC, Purva UP and MP Sub Area, said chief public relation officer of NCR Shivam Sharma.The GM said Indian Railways ran over 2000 special trains for movement of forces and equipment during the war and 800 trains were run after the end of conflict to move prisoners of war and refugees. He also mentioned contribution of 1033 Railways Engineers of the Territorial Army commanded by Lt Col ML Khanna, whose 1000 railwaymen-turned-armymen TA battalion, was called upon to activate and operate the work of 40 km rail line of Pakistan Railways in the middle of Thar Desert that straddles the two countries at that point. “The task was completed in a day and in the bombings that were encountered during the operation loco driver Durga Shankar sustained burn injuries and offered to drive with his elbows. He was decorated with Veer Chakra while the unit was awarded with two Vishishth Sewa Medals,” he added. The torch was later taken to the house of 1971 war veteran, Col (retd) K Kumar at Mehanduri area of Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-welcomed-at-ncr-hq-in-prayagraj-101637867733262.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||British Sikh teenager stabbed to death in London robbery||Scotland Yard officers launched a murder investigation on Thursday following the fatal stabbing of a 16-year-old British Sikh boy on a west London street. The victim was named locally as Ashmeet Singh.The Metropolitan Police said they were called to Raleigh Road in Southall on Wednesday night to reports of a stabbing and attended along with paramedics from London Ambulance Service (LAS).“Despite the efforts of emergency services, he died at the scene a short time later. His next of kin have been informed; formal identification awaits,” the Met Police said.“Homicide detectives from Specialist Crime have been informed. There have been no arrests. Enquiries are ongoing,” they said, appealing for anyone with information related to the murder to come forward.Social media footage shows police officers battling in vain to save the victim’s life in a front garden. According to the ‘Evening Standard’, Singh’s friends fear the British Sikh boy was attacked for a fake Gucci bag he always carried with him.“Police came to check my CCTV and said there had been a stabbing, I couldn’t believe it,” a local shopkeeper was quoted as saying by the newspaper.“I knew him, he was a good guy. His friends are all saying he was stabbed over this Gucci bag, it wasn’t even real. It’s terrible. I wish I had heard something or he had run to me. I would have pulled down the shutters to keep him safe – I had the staff to handle it,” he said.According to locals, Singh did part-time jobs to care for his disabled mother, who lives above a shop close to where her son was killed. His stabbing marks the 28th teenage killing on the streets of London this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/british-sikh-teenager-stabbed-to-death-in-london-robbery-101637867672743.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four killed in fire, Yamunanagar scrap godown owner booked||A scrap godown owner was booked on charges of causing death due to negligence after a 35-year-old labourer and his three children died due to fire at his store on City Centre Road in Yamunanagar on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, police said.The suspect was identified as Naveen, while the deceased were Niyamuddin alias Raju (36), a labourer at a plywood factory, and his kids Fiza (12), Chand (8) and Rihan alias Chotu (3), all from Bihar’s East Champaran district. The wife Nasima (30) managed to escape with minor injuries.Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said excessive suffocation and burns were ascertained as the cause of death. “The bodies were handed over to the family after autopsies were conducted. The wife is undergoing treatment at a civil hospital and is out of danger,” Dr Dahiya said.The family was living in the quarters behind the godown near OP Jindal Park along with six other families from the past five years. At least 18 residents were rescued by the police and fire officials. A cow and a calf also got burnt during the incident, Niyamuddin’s brother Kaimudeen said.He alleged that Naveen had stuffed huge quantities of scrap (more than the godown capacity) and many loose wires were hanging over the godown, about which, he, his brother and other tenants had complained about, fearing the risk of fire due to the presence of inflammable items.“Naveen told us that this is their work. I got to know about the fire at the godown at 2am. Police and fire officials broke walls of the quarters and rescued my brother’s family but four of them died while undergoing treatment,” Kaimudeen said.He alleged that the fire took place due to short circuit and his family members died due to Naveen’s negligence.Sub-inspector Dal Singh, SHO of Yamunanagar city police station, said the owner has been booked under Sections 338, 427, 429 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and is yet to be arrested.Fire officer Parmod Duggal said six fire tenders managed to douse the fire in three hours.On being asked about fire NOC with the owner, he said, “He had no such certificate and was running a temporary structure.”Mayor Madan Mohan Chauhan said a probe will be initiated, while deputy commissioner Parth Gupta said the public works department (B&R) will conduct a checking of the building, to ascertain that there is no damage to the neighbouring structure if it collapses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-killed-in-fire-yamunanagar-scrap-godown-owner-booked-101637867619316.html
26-11-2021||Other||TN vaccinates over 1.2 million against Covid in 11th mega drive||ChennaiTamil Nadu vaccinated 1,201,832 people against Covid-19 in the 11th mega vaccination campaign held across the state on Thursday.A total of 4,52,969 people received the first dose while 7,48,863 people received the second jab. With this, 77.02 per cent of the population has received the first dose and 41.60 per cent second, an official release said. According to minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian, the department has set a target to vaccinate 100 per cent of the eligible population with single dose by month-end.Earlier in the day, he inspected the vaccination drive in the city that was conducted in various places like primary health centres, government hospitals and schools. TN records 739 new casesTamil Nadu added 739 fresh infections to the cumulative Covidtally, which mounted to 2,723,245 while the toll rose to 36,432 with 17 additional deaths, the health department said on Thursday.Recoveries eclipsed new cases with 764 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,678,371 leaving 8,442 active infections, a medical bulletin said.A total of 101,993 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.37 crore.Coimbatore and Chennai accounted for the majority of new infections with 112 and 107 cases, respectively, while the remaining were scattered across other districts.As many as 24 districts reported less than 10 new cases, while Ariyalur, Perambalur recorded zero cases, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tnvaccinates-over-1-2-million-against-covid-in-11th-mega-drive-101637867617644.html
26-11-2021||Other||Amid Andhra liquor policy row, Jagan govt says revenue will be used for people’s welfare||AmaravatiOpposition parties in Andhra Pradesh hit out at the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s liquor policy even as the government on Thursday boasted of record sales and profits in the last three years.The government said the liquor money would be used for some of its major freebie schemes and has amended a law to enable this.The government, however, claimed consumption of liquor in Andhra Pradesh fell by 37 per cent and beer by 77 per cent.In the first eight months of this calendar year, the state government – which is now the sole wholesaler and retailer of liquor – earned a record profit of ₹12,005.56 crore out of a total revenue of ₹14,375.23 crore.In 2020, the Covid-19 lockdown notwithstanding, the government earned a profit of ₹13,435.65 crore from a total revenue of ₹16,979.44 crore.In 2019, the gross revenue was ₹17,625.78 crore and profit ₹12,541.74 crore, the government informed the state legislative assembly.Given the current trend in sales, the profit on liquor is expected to cross at least ₹18,000 crore this calendar year, according to official sources.The liquor sale issue was raised through a question by Telugu Desam Party members Anagani Satya Prasad and others who sought to know by when would the YSR Congress government implement liquor prohibition in the state in accordance with its assurance to the people.They boycotted the ongoing session in protest.The government said it was committed to its “avowed policy of reduction in consumption of liquor” and gave details of revenue and expenditure through liquor sale since January 2019.“Liquor rates have been increased to keep the poor people away from consumption. The government has taken over retail trade through the AP State Beverages Corporation and reduced the number of shops from 4,380 to 2,934,” deputy chief minister (excise) K Narayana Swamy said in the reply tabled in the assembly.On Wednesday, the state Legislature passed a Bill amending the AP (Regulation of Trade in IMFL and FL) Act, 1993, making the Beverages Corporation responsible for implementing welfare programmes like Cheyuta, Aasara and Ammavodi to the extent of their application to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes.Incidentally, the state government has escrowed the revenue accrued in the form of Additional Excise Retail Tax to help the State Development Corporation raise loans for those three freebie scheme that have a total annual outlay of ₹16,899 crore.“The state has been brought to such a pathetic stage where welfare programmes are linked to liquor consumption. It is highly disgraceful that the law has been amended entrusting the welfare schemes’ responsibility to the Beverages Corporation,” Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said in a statement.He lashed out at the Jagan regime saying it gave up its promise of liquor prohibition and was now solely banking on liquor sale for implementing the welfare schemes.“How could they link a scheme like Ammavodi, meant to increase enrolment in schools, with liquor sale? Will the dole not be given to mothers unless the fathers buy and consume liquor?” Yanamala wondered.MLC Vitapu Balasubrahmanyam said amendment to the liquor Act would only bring ignominy to the government.“Will you tell the children that they are drawing the Ammavodi dole only because their fathers are drinking (liquor)?” he asked and demanded that the amendment be withdrawn.BJP member P V N Madhav and Progressive Democratic Front members K Narasimha Reddy and I Venkateswara Rao too criticised the state government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-andhra-liquor-policy-row-jagan-govt-says-revenue-will-be-used-for-people-s-welfare-101637867611873.html
26-11-2021||Other||CM Stalin seeks civil aviation ministry to make air transport bubbles with Singapore, Malayasia for Tamil diaspora||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday wrote to civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, urging him to make a temporary agreement for ‘air transport bubbles’ with Singapore and Malaysia to resolve travel difficulties faced by the Tamil diaspora due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In his letter, Stalin said Tamils who have permanent residences in Singapore and Malaysia and other travellers from Tamil Nadu, who made their trip to India during the pandemic, are facing hardship to return due to non-availability of direct flight services.“They have to travel through Dubai, Doha and Colombo which is causing serious inconvenience and financial burden as they have to pay more air charges and travel long distance due to the detour,” he said. Stalin spoke of how the Indian airline industry was also impacted in the absence of such agreements with these countries. “In addition, due to the lack of agreement of temporary ‘air transport bubbles’ between the countries of Singapore and Malaysia, the travel business is being cornered by other foreign airlines like Qatar Airways, Emirates and Srilankan Airlines and not to our country’s airlines,” he said. “Hence, I request you to make a temporary ‘air transport bubbles’ agreement with Singapore and Malaysia at the earliest for providing temporary airline services and resolving the difficulties faced by the Tamil diaspora in Singapore and Malaysia.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-stalin-seeks-civil-aviation-ministry-to-make-air-transport-bubbles-with-singapore-malayasia-for-tamil-diaspora-101637867551828.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||PIL filed in Calcutta HC challenging BSF jurisdiction||A public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the central government’s power to decide the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) was moved before the Calcutta high court on Thursday.The Centre recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the petitioner to serve notice to the BSF authority on the matter.The bench directed that the matter will come up for hearing on December 14.According to the petitioner’s lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the PIL claimed that the power of the central government under Section 139, Clause I, of BSF Act on deciding jurisdiction of the force is against the federal structure of the country.Section 139 of the Act deals with powers and duties conferrable and imposable on members of the force.The governments of West Bengal and Punjab have objected to the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of BSF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pil-filed-in-calcutta-hc-challenging-bsf-jurisdiction-101637867491927.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||“Swarnim Vijay Mashaal” arrives at CAC in Prayagraj on Friday||The “Swarnim Vijay Mashaal” (victory torch), which was lit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at War Memorial on December 16, 2020 to commemorate the victory in 1971 Indo-Pak war, will reach Central Air Command (CAC) headquarters in Prayagraj on Friday.“The liberation of Bangladesh is a proud chapter in the history of CAC as the birth of Bangladesh in 1971 owes a lot to air operations. As the situation on the subcontinent deteriorated, the Indian Air Force (IAF) was alerted to the possibility of another armed conflict. On November 22, 1971 an aerial interception battle, called ‘Battle of Boyra’ was fought between IAF and intruding Pakistani Air Force (PAF) jets that had crossed into Indian airspace while giving covers to its ground forces,” said regional public relation officer (defence, Prayagraj) Group Captain Samir Suresh Gangakhedkar. He said a detachment of four Gnats of 22 Squadron had intercepted a PAF aircraft. The PAF pilots ejected over Boyra and were made prisoners of war (POW) by Indian forces. The battle of Boyra took place before the formal start of Indo-Pak war of 1971, he added. Gangakhedkar further said on the evening of December 3, 1971 (at 5.45 pm), the Pakistan launched a pre-emptive air strike at Indian air fields of Amritsar, Srinagar, Awantipur, Pathankot, Uttarlai, Jodhpur, Ambala and Agra. “India was fully geared up to respond and went into action. The IAF continued operations at an unprecedented pace of over 500 sorties per day. As the Indian Army progressed forward in the East Pakistan, the IAF continued with its attack against Pakistani targets as the campaign developed into a series of anti-airfield, anti-radar and close-support attacks by the fighter jets with night attacks against airfields and strategic targets by MIG 21s, Canberras and AN-12s,” he added.“Transport and airlift operations were handled by the three C-47 Dakota Sqns, two Antonov-12, one DHC Caribou, one DHC-3 Otter and one C-119 Packet Sqn augmented from Western, Central and Eastern commands and based at Jorhat, Guwahati, Barrackpore and Dum Dum during December 3 to 16, 1971,” informed the official. Gangakhedkar also spoke about an interesting incident wherein the Governor of East Pakistan had to resign following the action by IAF fighters.“On the morning of December 14, a message was intercepted by the Indian intelligence concerning a high-level meeting in East Pakistan. A decision was then made to mount an attack within 15 minutes of the interception of the message and a strike was launched against Dhaka. Armed with tourist guides map of the city four MIG 21s of 28 Squadron became airborne. Only a few minutes had passed after the meeting had started when the IAF aircraft blasted the governor’s house with 57mm rockets, ripping the massive roof off the main hall and turning the building into a smouldering wreck,” he informed. AH Malik the governor of East Pakistan was so shocked after the incident that he resigned on the spot by writing his resignation on a piece of paper, thereby renouncing all ties with the West Pakistani administration, he recalled. “The December 1971 war also witnessed the gaining of India’s highest award for gallantry to the IAF Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, flying Gnats with number 18 Sqn from Srinagar, secure hits on one PAF Sabre and damaged another. He was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, informed the PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-arrives-at-cac-in-prayagraj-on-friday-101637867372381.html
26-11-2021||Lucknow||Process to embellish airport-like facilities at Prayagraj Junction railway station begins||North Central Railway (NCR) on Thursday rolled out tender process for revamp of Prayagraj Junction station that would be embellished with airport-like facilities, said an NCR official.Three other stations of the NCR zone, including Kanpur Central, Gwalior and Agra Cantonment, would also be revamped, the official added.“Earlier, the work for revamping the facilities at railway stations was entrusted upon Indian Railway Development Corporation (IRDC) which was dissolved a few months back. Following this, it was instructed that the revamp work would now be done in the respective zones, under which Prayagraj and Kanpur Central would be revamped under Prayagraj Division of NCR, Agra Cantonment under Agra division and Gwalior Junction under Jhansi division,” said chief public relation officer (CPRO), NCR, Shivam Sharma.He said the revamp is expected to cost about ₹400 crore.Under the plan, several works will be done at both sides of the junction-- City side and Civil Lines side. By constructing a multi-storey building here, the facility of lodging, food and shopping of essential items will be provided under one roof. During this, the route for arrival and departure of passengers of route wise trains will be made. “This arrangement will also facilitate the passengers during Kumbh Mela. The number of lifts and escalators at the junction will also be increased. A modern waiting room will be constructed. Construction of dormitories with a capacity of about 100 passengers, ATVMs etc. will also be arranged for the purchase of ordinary tickets on all the platforms,” he said. Construction of pickup and drop point lanes on both sides, prepaid taxi booths and vehicle parking with modern facilities are also on the anvil, the CPRO said. Sharma said the plan to make Prayagraj Junction a world-class station was conceptualised in 2018 but due to the Kumbh-2019 and later the pandemic, nothing was done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/process-to-embellish-airport-like-facilities-at-prayagraj-junction-railway-station-begins-101637867311879.html
26-11-2021||Other||Penalise those erecting illegal flag poles under Land Conservancy Act: Kerala HC to Vijayan govt||Kochi: With the 10 days given by it for voluntary removal of illegal flag masts erected across the state coming to an end, the Kerala high court on Thursday directed the government to invoke provisions of Land Conservancy Act against all flag poles, which number 42,337.The high court on November 15 had given 10 days’ time to those who have put up flag poles in the state to remove the same on their own before any action is initiated by the government or its authorities.On Thursday, the state government told Justice Devan Ramachandran that it had given wide publicity to the court’s November 15 order and the authorities have ensured that no new flag masts were erected since then.The court said that if the stand of the government -- represented by senior government pleader S Kannan -- was accurate, then all the flag masts in the state will prima facie have to be made subject to the Land Conservancy Act and consequent prosecution and imposition of penalties provided under it have to be invoked and pursued.It said that since the time frame given by it is over, it has to be assumed and presumed that people are aware about the law and the consequences for the violation of the same.The court also said that if any new flag masts are erected illegally and not removed by the competent authorities, the latter will have to face the consequences mandated under the law.”It is high time we understand we are governed by the rule of law. The court gave everyone one opportunity to remove the flag masts on their own.”If no one intends to remove them, they will have to be removed as per the Land Conservancy Act and penalties, as provided under it, should be imposed,” Justice Ramachandran said.Let these people show they erected it with proper permissions, the court added.On November 15, the court was alarmed and amazed by the “mind-boggling” figure of 42,337 flag poles existing across the state and had told the Left government to take action under every applicable law against the perpetrators, irrespective of political affiliations.“No more illegal flag poles,” the high court had added.It had on November 1 passed an interim order directing that no illegal flag poles or masts be put up in the state while the issue was being examined by it.“Lawlessness” is how the high court earlier termed the installation of illegal flag masts across the state by political parties, their affiliates and trade unions.The court was hearing a plea by a cooperative society alleging that a particular political party was illegally putting up flags and banners on its land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/penalise-those-erecting-illegal-flag-poles-under-land-conservancy-act-kerala-hc-to-vijayan-govt-101637867011939.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Bommai to officials: Intensify Covid vaccination drive to improve 2nd dose coverage||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday instructed the Deputy Commissioners of all districts to intensify the COVID-19 vaccination drive to improve state’s coverage of second dose.The Chief Minister today held a video conference with Deputy Commissioners of the districts to review the progress of Covid vaccination drive.“The state has achieved 90 per cent coverage of the first dose and the extent of coverage of the second dose stands at 57 per cent. The second dose coverage should touch 70 per cent by the end of December,” Bommai said.According to a release from the CM’s office, Bengaluru Urban district tops the list, while Kalaburagi is at the bottom.Deputy Commissioners should devote at least one hour daily for the vaccination programme and constitute teams to visit the villages to convince people to get vaccinated, Bommai was quoted as saying in the statement.He also cautioned against any complacency in vaccination drive in the backdrop of reduction in COVID cases.The cases are again on the rise in many countries, he pointed out, adding that “We should not give scope for a third wave here.” The state has reported 306 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 2 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2994,561 and the toll to 38,187, the health department said on Thursday.The day also saw 224 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,49,853.Out of 306 new cases reported on Thursday, 171 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 147 discharges and no deaths.Total number of active cases in the state is 6,492.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.65 per cent.Out of 2 deaths reported on Thursday, one each are from Kalaburagi and Kolar.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 171, Dharwad 42, Mysuru 20, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi 13, followed by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bommai-to-officials-intensify-covid-vaccination-drive-to-improve-2nd-dose-coverage-101637866773056.html
26-11-2021||Other||Second judge recuses from hearing plea involving Khaira||Chandigarh A Punjab and Haryana high court judge on Thursday recused from hearing a plea by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) involving Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira. The bench of justice Lisa Gill ordered that matter be listed before some other bench after obtaining orders from the chief justice. On Wednesday, the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh had recused from hearing the case, while ordering that “..this petition be listed before another bench tomorrow itself, i.e. November 25, 2021, after obtaining orders in that regard from the honourable chief justice.” Both the judges have not specified reasons for their recusal. The matter will now be taken up by the bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur on Friday. The short date for hearing was allowed by both the benches as additional solicitor general of India, SV Raju, who had appeared for the ED had submitted that the period of 15 days of custody with central agency, expires on November 26, and hence the matter be listed on priority. In its plea, the ED has challenged a Mohali court order, which denied it custody of Khaira and sent him to judicial custody on November 18, a lawyer associated with the case said. Khaira, was arrested by the central agency on November 11. The urgency shown by ED is borne out of the fact that after 15 days of custody, it won’t be able to seek Khaira’s remand, another lawyer added. The Mohali court had sent him to judicial custody, even as ED had sought seven-day remand on November 18. The ED arrested Khaira, a former Punjab MLA, on November 11 under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency had raided his premises in March this year and proceedings have been initiated in connection with a 2015 First Information Report (FIR). Nine persons were convicted on October 31, 2017 in the case by a trial court and sentenced to imprisonment, ranging between 3 years and 20 years, for trans-border heroin smuggling. In the same order, the court had summoned Khaira as “additional accused”. In December 2017, the Supreme Court had stayed his summoning order. Khaira had won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala district on an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. He resigned from the primary membership of the Arvind Kejriwal-led party in January 2019, and floated his own outfit, the Punjab Ekta Party. He joined the Congress in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/second-judge-recuses-from-hearing-plea-involving-khaira-101637866771849.html
26-11-2021||Noida||Noida airport event: Yogi slams ‘Jinnah followers’ for spewing hate||Leveraging his “Ganna (sugarcane) Vs Jinnah” plank, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said while farmers added sweetness to society, certain followers of Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah started a series of riots.He was referring to Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s comments on November 1, on the occasion of the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Patel, wherein he said Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah had helped the country attain freedom. Speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Noida international airport in Jewar, Adityanath said the people in western Uttar Pradesh made great efforts to grow the most exquisite sugarcane, while some people tried to vitiate the atmosphere by starting a series of riots in the country. “Now it is the responsibility of you all to decide — whether you want to add sweetness of sugarcane or support those who added bitterness in society,” the UP chief minister said, sounding the poll bugle. The state is set to go to assembly polls early next year. Adityanath first raised the “Ganna Vs Jinnah” narrative in 2018, ahead of the Kairana bypolls. “You all have witnessed the change that was started in 2014. You all saw how even during a global pandemic the government at the state and Centre protected people. We have seen the how Prime Minister has made the country a global power. Airport is an important project for western UP because farmers of this region have always worked to strengthen the country,” said Adityanath in his seven-minute speech before Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the airport project before a gathering of over 100,00 people.“All farmers are to be thanked as they have given up their land for the airport. I express gratitude to all farmers. I pay my respects to all western UP farmers for supporting the development work that the state has started,” the CM said. Criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party in a series of tweets, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said what is being built today (referring to the airport) will be put on sale tomorrow.He also attacked the Prime Minister’s remarks on double-engine growth for UP. “Those whose plane has been grounded by the force of public anger, and those whose flight has been cancelled may claim whatever engine their plane has, but the people have realised that it is nothing but a ‘jumla’”, the SP chief tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-airport-event-yogi-slams-jinnah-followers-for-spewing-hate-101637866711658.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Chinnaswamy stadium blast: 2 convicts awarded life sentence||In the Chinnaswamy stadium blast case, a court here on Thursday enhanced the quantum of punishment awarded to two convicts to rigorous life imprisonment from a seven-year incarceration.The convicts-- Ahmed Jamali and Aftab Alam, members of Indian Mujahiddin, had pleaded guilty before the sessions court, which sentenced them to seven years in prison, in 2020.Challenging the sessions court order, the Bengaluru police had moved the Karnataka High Court to increase the quantum of punishment.The blast at the stadium here ahead of the Indian Premier League (IPL) match between Royal Challengers and Mumbai Indians on April 17, 2010 left 15 people, including five security men, injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/chinnaswamy-stadium-blast-2-convicts-awarded-life-sentence-101637866591787.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks govt to state readiness to combat third wave of Covid||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought to know from the state government whether it would be in position to render its services and sources on short notice in the unfortunate event of a third Covid-19 wave.“In the light of the present state of the pandemic, our present concern is only whether the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) would be in a position to render their services and sources on short notice in the unfortunate event of the country experiencing a third Covid wave.“Our purpose is to only sensitise both the governments of the need for them and readiness on the possibility of the third wave hitting us. We hope and expect that this aspect of information from all relevant portals,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh.The court was hearing a bunch of pleas, including one by lawyer and petitioner Rakesh Malhotra on the need for better facilities during the Covid-19 pandemic.During the hearing, amicus curie, senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, highlighted the issues regarding the functioning of the delhifightscorona.in website of the Delhi government and said that certain information has not been updated since September.He also said that the information regarding EWS (Economically Weaker Section) beds was still not available on the said website and that the process of several web pages for translation to Hindi was incomplete. He also pointed out that while some hospitals were updating the availability of beds on the website, others were not doing so.However, senior advocate Rahul Mehra for the Delhi government told the court that the website was updated as recently on November 22. The court asked the state government to file a status report on this aspect.The bench was also informed by Kanwaljeet Arora, member secretary of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), that it has filed the application for over 4,000 people who are to get ex-gratia from the Delhi government for losing their family members during the second wave of the pandemic.The court sought a status report from the government on various aspects of preparation, including the ratio of doctors versus patients to ascertain whether the authorities were well-prepared for an increase in the number of cases.The matter will now be heard in February, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-govt-to-state-readiness-to-combat-third-wave-of-covid-101637866411788.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||26/11 special: ‘Survivors say they are prepared for the worst, now’||It has been 13 years since the terror attacks in Mumbai orchestrated by Lashkar-e-Taiba left 166 people dead and 238 injured. In what way did the attacks change the state’s politics? Are we prepared to handle disasters better? How does 26/11 still loom over our lives? We examine these questions and talk to the survivors.Dr Gautam Bhansali, a consultant general physician practising at the Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines, had a dinner planned at the Masala Kraft restaurant in the Taj Hotel to ring in his fourth wedding anniversary on November 27, 2008. He finished his hospital round and called his wife to come down from their residential quarters in the hospital building. As Bhansali walked towards the casualty ward, he saw several patients in a pool of blood with multiple injuries. “The first victim I spoke to had a gunshot injury in the abdomen. He worked in a canteen at the CST railway station,” said the 43-year-old who worked as a clinical associate at the time. Within minutes, dinner plans were scrapped and Bhansali got to work. “I pitched in to start intravenous drips, suture wounds to stop bleeding, move patients from Emergency Room to Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and operation theatres,” Bhansali said. The Bombay Hospital has a 145-bed ICU ward, of which 62 beds were vacant on the night of November 26. All operation theatres began humming with activity. “Patients were coming in with severe bleeding and fractures. We first started with giving them intravenous fluids and blood transfusion and simultaneously preparing those who were in need of emergency surgeries. Some of the patients had so much blood loss that their haemoglobin levels had dropped to two points,” Bhansali said. The hospital admitted nearly 114 patients over the course of that long night. At least 46 major and minor surgeries were carried out in those hairy hours as the city came under siege. In the middle of the chaos, doctors began receiving news of an attack on Cama and Albless Hospital, a mother and child facility near CST. Ajmal Kasab and his partner, Ismail Khan, attacked the hospital after leaving behind a carnage at the CST station. Ashok Kamte, the additional commissioner of Mumbai police at the time, died during a gun fight that ensued near the hospital. His body was eventually taken to the Bombay Hospital. Kasab was eventually apprehended at Girgaum Chowpatty after the duo tried to escape — he was the lone terrorist caught. With little information coming in, rumours began spreading. “Many of us got calls that the terrorists were now targeting hospitals,” Bhansali recalled. Bombay Hospital authorities alerted their security and decided to check all vehicles and patients entering the premises. “We were worried that a terrorist may come in pretending to be a patient.” “It was the scariest experience of my life,” Bhansali said. “The 26/11 terror strike prepared me for the worst disasters,” he said. **************‘Waiting for government to respond to my plea’megha.sood@htlive.com It has been 13 years since the terror attacks in Mumbai orchestrated by Lashkar-e-Taiba left 166 people dead and 238 injured. In what way did the attacks change the state’s politics? Are we prepared to handle disasters better? How does 26/11 still loom over our lives? We examine these questions and talk to the survivors.Devika Rotawan is the youngest survivor of the Mumbai terror attacks of November 26, 2008 and was a key witness to identify Ajmal Kasab, the lone gunmen among 10 who held the city under siege 13 years ago. She was nine at the time. Today, the 22-year-old is preparing for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination, whilst also nursing her aged father . She’s also fighting to secure a roof over their head.“I still hope that the government will allot me the house, as was promised to me,” said Rotawan while on her way to a doctor, taking her aged father for a routine check-up, who is currently battling a viral fever. Rotawan, who is pursuing a graduation in Sociology from Chetana College, Bandra wants to become a civil servant, was barely nine year old at the time of the attacks. She was at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station, waiting with her family members to catch a train to Pune, when two terrorists — Kasab and his partner Abu Ismail Khan — opened fire, and began to hurl grenades at passengers inside the terminus. Rotawan said that on the day of the attack, her father and she were waiting on the platform while her brother bought tickets. “That was when all hell broke loose and bullets started flying in the air,” she said. As soon as the two started running, a bullet hit Rotawan’s right thigh. As she fell, she caught sight of Kasab who was firing indiscriminately. Writhing in pain, she soon fell unconscious and woke up several hours later at St George Hospital. Over the following two months, she underwent six operations on her leg, and it would be another six months before she could leave the bed and walk. However, when the Mumbai police Crime Branch officials asked her to testify in court against Kasab, she agreed immediately. Soon after the trial started in April 2009, Rotawan walked into a court room and pointed towards the Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba operative, identifying him as the one who was shot her and others at the station. While she recuperated, many state and Central government officers visited her; many promised that the government would allot the Rotawans a flat from the economically weaker section (EWS) quota, as there was no earning member in the family. Her father could not work because of a condition in his lumbar region. He was not injured during the attacks, but he was an eyewitness too. Last year, during the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown Rotawan family was on the verge of being evicted from their rented premises at Subhash Nagar in Bandra east. In August 2020, Rotawan approached the Bombay high court and wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. In October last year, the HC directed the state government to consider her plea, but nothing has happened so far. “I can’t forget the day when those terrorists unleashed havoc on Mumbai, but now my struggle is to get a house. I do not know what will come of the court case, but we are waiting for the government to answer my plea,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2611-special-survivors-say-they-are-prepared-for-the-worst-now-101637866352947.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Jarkiholi case: HC stays action against Bengaluru police commissioner||The Karnataka high court on Thursday stayed proceedings against Bengaluru police commissioner and two other senior officers for allegedly delaying registration of a first information report (FIR) against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in an alleged sexual harassment case. A single judge bench of Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar said the FIR was indeed registered after the victim came forward and gave FIR through her lawyer. “Investigation is completed and the final report is ready. It is not filed because of an interim order issued by the high court … It appears that the complainant is not aware of all these proceedings and in these circumstances investigation against petitioners as ordered by the magistrate, is not proper. Therefore till next date operation of the impugned order stands stayed,” said the bench. Adarsh R Iyer, who filed a private complaint in a lower court, said he approached a police station to file a complaint against the officers on March 17 for the delay but no action was taken. Subsequently, he unsuccessfully took up the matter with deputy police commissioner (central) MN Anuchet on April 1. “The delay from the officers to file an FIR (against the minister) based on the complaint of social activist Dinesh Kallahalli amounts to a case under Section 166A (public servant disobeying direction under the law) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code). I approached the court seeking action against officers under this section as police did not respond to my complaints,” Iyer said. In their petition in the high court, Pant, Anuchet, and B Maruti, the police station in charge, argued that the lower court passed the order without mentioning whether Iyer’s allegations would amount to action against the officers. The plea said an FIR is registered based on the complaint given by the victim. “The impugned order passed by the magistrate is contrary to law, facts and material available on record and as such the magistrate has slipped into an error, resulting in grave miscarriage of justice to the petitioners,” the petition stated. Jarkiholi was forced to resign as a minister in March when Kalahalli lodged a complaint of sexual harassment and exploitation against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader. Kalahalli withdrew the complaint within five days. He claimed he was distressed by the allegation that he had lodged the complaint for money. Police did not register an FIR saying the woman, who was allegedly harassed, has to appear before them. They subsequently dropped the investigation. On March 11, then home minister and now chief minister Basavaraj Bommai announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team to probe the case. The woman later filed a complaint through her lawyers, as police insisted that an FIR will be filed only based on her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/jarkiholi-case-hc-stays-action-against-bengaluru-police-commissioner-101637866291839.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka contractors’ body writes to PM Modi, complains of corruption||The Karnataka State Contractors Association on Thursday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that they are made to cough up around 25-30% of tender amount to elected representatives and others before starting works, which indicates corruption continues to engulf the southern state.The letter, the association stated, was to highlight the “miserable plight” of working contractors in the state as well as remedial measures to be taken.“The contractors face (an) unhealthy atmosphere and are discouraged to taking up the works of Roads & Buildings. They are facing untoward and ugly situation in getting the tender works in various department like public works department, minor & major irrigation, panchayat raj engineering, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, health department, etc,” stated the letter.In the letter, they allege that the concerned minister “insist and harass’ payment of 5% on amount put to tender before approval while a few elected representatives demand 3% before starting of works.In district and taluks, the association said, there are demands to the extent of 5% on buildings and 10% on road works.The letter comes at a time when the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government as well as the administration under his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, has come under the scanner for alleged corruption in all departments.The allegations come even as the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) continues its raids on officials from various departments during which money and valuables were recovered from mid-level officials including those hidden in drain pipes and other places.The Bommai government also faces allegations of money laundering through Bitcoins and other crypto currencies -- a charge that the chief minister has denied.The contractors association also alleges that the provision of directly allocating funds without tenders has led to a situation where aides of elected representatives in neighbouring states are causing losses to original registered contractors within Karnataka.“The injustice in tender conditions through e-procurement portal in various local contractors by departments is injurious to the registered local contractors,” they said in the letter.“Thus, the local registered contractors of our state have (to) pay to the extent of 25% to 30% (for elected representatives & others) of the tender amount before starting the works. Such being the position how (will) the contractor undertakes good work,” the letter stated.After the allegation surfaced, chief minister Bommai on Thursday said all tenders will be scrutinised despite the fact that the letter by the contractors does not provide any specifics.“When tenders are scrutinised, everything will come out. If there has been any irregularity or other anomalies, it will come out in the investigation. But in the letter, they have not given any evidence or specific case or any number. They have written a general letter. But even then I have asked that an inquiry be conducted. That department’s chief officials have to scrutinise the tenders, especially after our government came. What more transparency than this is required,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-contractors-body-writes-to-pm-modi-complains-of-corruption-101637866111583.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Cost of delivery in Karnataka govt hospitals shoots up: NFHS||Data from the National Family Health Survey 5 (2019-20) shows that the average out-of-pocket expenditure per delivery in a public health facility in Karnataka on average has risen only by 2.69% from ₹4,824 to ₹4,924.But a closer look into district-wise data shows that the rise is much more significant in the most backward regions of the southern state where regional imbalance has led to lower expenditure into healthcare infrastructure, adding to costs of delivery.For instance, in the mineral-rich region of Ballari, average out-of-pocket costs for delivery have gone up from ₹4,413 in 2014-15 to ₹12,348 or an increase of nearly 180%.In Haveri, the home district of Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, the average out-of-pocket costs for delivery at a public hospital has risen from ₹2,866 to ₹11,573, and has shown an increase of 303% in just six years. In comparison, Bengaluru has seen its costs plunge from ₹9,333 in 2015-16 to ₹3,633, registering a degrowth in costs by over 150%.The continued focus on Bengaluru, the state’s biggest contributor to the exchequer and home to almost a quarter of its over 70 million population, it has added to the growing regional imbalance that even a special status of the constitution has not been able to fix in the Kalyana-Karnataka region.Public health experts said the trend was “a matter of concern” if people had to spend an average of ₹5,000 (state average but higher in some districts) in public health facilities.“This shows that public facilities that should ideally be giving fully subsidised care, especially for things such as delivery, people are spending around ₹5,000 and there needs to be some further studies on where these expenses are being incurred,” Dr Adithya Pradyumna, faculty member, Azim Premji University told Hindustan Times.The regional imbalance continues to rear its head despite the state taking steady strides in attracting foreign direct investments and large corporations to set up their business in the state.However, this has been mainly in Bengaluru and surrounding regions that have influenced successive governments, irrespective of party or ideology, to fixate on “developing” the city and turning a blind eye to other backward regions.The stray scheme, project or sector-specific parks in some of these backward districts, it appears has done little to change the on-ground realities of such districts.Experts say the cost of healthcare shoots up when their travel quotient is factored. And this is prevalent in backward districts where people are forced to go to the district or taluka headquarters for any treatment due to the shortage of hospitals or staff.“Our coverage needs to improve in terms of the AB_ARK (Ayushman Bharat- Arogya Karnataka) card distribution. Our health minister has taken it upon himself to ensure that AB-ARK cards are distributed across (the state),” D Randeep, Karnataka’s commissioner for health and family welfare told Hindustan Times.He said that the number of cards distributed are around 1.4 crore but there is scope to take this to 4 crore. He said that there needs to be a sustained drive like distribution of ration cards as well as raise awareness.On the rising cost of delivery in public healthcare facilities, he said that the sampling data needs to be looked into for this.“The whole thing of referrals outside (the hospital) that needs to kind of stop. Be it for medicines outside, diagnostics.. Within the system there is adequate access be it in district hospitals and medical colleges. Almost every diagnostic facility is available. Most of the high-end drugs are also available,” he said.While costs are up, the push by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the Centre for health insurance schemes like Ayushman Bharat has had a negative impact, data shows.The key indicator on households with any usual member covered under a health insurance/financing scheme (%) remains stagnant in the state at 28.1 but data from districts show that it is the most backward regions that continue to see a decline in people covered under health insurance.Just 13 districts out of the 30 surveyed in the report, show an increase in healthcare coverage. In Haveri, which falls under the Kittur-Karnataka region (earlier known as Mumbai-Karnataka), the fall in health insurance coverage is down 15.6% from 44.4 in 2015-16 to 28.8 in 2019.The state and city of Benglauru, are known globally as home to India’s silicon, technology and startup revolution, but the growing number of urban poor is hidden in plain sight as migrants from regions that are backward come into the city in the hope to get better education, healthcare and opportunities that are denied to them in their respective villages or towns.The Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns exposed the fault lines of India’s urban centres where the poor had survived much of the time indoors without income largely due to the help of generosity of individuals and organisations rather than the government.A November report by Azim Premji University (AZU) shows that due to rapid and unplanned urbanisation, the need for a better coordinated and governed health care system is crucial at this point.“Our evidence from Bengaluru shows that 30% of even the poorest quintile seek delivery care from private sources. Since there is a 10-fold difference in cost between public and private facilities, this significantly adds to their financial burden,” according to the report.“There seems to have been some focus on Ayushman Bharat and other sorts of insurance schemes but for whatever reason the proportion of households that are covered with insurance seems to have remained stagnant,” Dr Pradyumna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cost-of-delivery-in-karnataka-govt-hospitals-shoots-up-nfhs-101637865811640.html
26-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka official with 800% disproportionate assets found: ACB||​ The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continued its raids at several government officials across the state on Thursday for the second consecutive day to catch officials having disproportionate assets to their known sources of income. ACB officials said in their assessment, they have recovered properties running into crores and in some cases the disproportionate assets were found to be over 800% from an official’s salary.The agency conducted simultaneous search operations at 68 locations related to 15 government officials, it said in a brief statement. The ACB searched houses, offices, and residences across Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Mandya, Kalburgi and other locations. The agency said 503 ACB officials took part in the raids.Apart from large recovery of property, the raids saw bizarre scenes such as officials using a bucket to drain out ₹13.50 lakh in cash, stuffed inside a water pipe of public works department (PWD) junior engineer Shanta Gouda, during a raid in Kalaburgi district on Wednesday.The ACB statement said following the raid at his Gouda’s house, they found ₹41.52 lakh worth property, which included 2 houses in Kalaburgi, 1 in Bengaluru, three cars, 1 school bus, two-wheelers, 2 tractors, cash, 100 grams gold ornaments, 36-acre agricultural land, and ₹15 lakh worth household materials. The ACB claimed that Gouda has 406.1% disproportionate assets compared to his salary and other earning.According to the ACB, the largest recovery was reported during a raid at home of Vasudev RN, a former project director (planning), Nirmithi Kendra, in Bengaluru Rural district. A total property worth ₹18 crore, which included 5 houses and 8 plots in Bengaluru, 4 houses in Nelamangala, 10.20 acre agricultural land in Nelamangala, 850 grams of gold ornaments, 9.50kg silver ornaments, ₹15 lakh cash and ₹98 lakh worth household materials.“We found that he had 879 % disproportionate assets. It is the highest we found during the raids,” an ACB official said.Besides, the ACB seized assets (moveable and immovable) to the tune of ₹4.9 crore from the premises of Mayanna M, a first division clerk Major Roads and Infrastructure at Bengaluru civic body BBMP. “Even he has used several Benami properties registered to his wife, mother-in-law, and some friends. We have raided four locations related to Mayanna. He is yet to provide explanations for the disproportionate assets. Legal proceedings will be followed,” the officer said.His properties included 4 houses in Bengaluru, 6 plots, 2 acres of agricultural land, 2 two-wheelers, 1 car, ₹59,000 cash, ₹10 lakh Fixed deposit, ₹1.5 lakh in savings accounts, 600 grams gold ornaments, 3 benami immovable properties, ₹12 lakh worth household materials, the ACB statement said.The raids come at the time when the BJP government in the state is still facing heat from the Opposition on the Bitcoin scam. The Congress has been relentless in its attacks on the Basavaraj Bommai government over the alleged laundering of money using the cryptocurrency with the help of a hacker named Srikrishna or Sriki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-official-with-800-disproportionate-assets-found-acb-101637865752856.html
26-11-2021||Mumbai||26/11: The day terror hit us||Exactly thirteen years ago on the evening of November 26, 2008, a group of 10 Pakistan-trained terrorists landed near a colony of fisherfolk at Cuffe Parade on Mumbai’s southern coast. Armed with automatic machine guns and grenades, they attacked, with military precision, multiple carefully-selected buildings in south Mumbai: A crowded Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus railway station and the nearby Cama and Albless Hospital; two five-star hotel complexes – the Taj Palace at Colaba and the Trident-Oberoi at Nariman Point; Leopold Café, a popular restaurant in Colaba; and Chabad House, a Jewish synagogue, also in Colaba. The siege of Mumbai that started on November 26 ended three days later. By then, the terrorists had killed 166 persons and injured 238. Security personnel led by National Security Guard (NSG) commandos countered the attack and killed eight terrorists while one was killed by Mumbai police. The tenth terrorist, 25-year-old Ajmal Amir Kasab was caught alive after Tukaram Omble, an assistant sub-inspector, charged at him with just a lathi despite being shot five times and held onto to the terrorist’s weapon, allowing his colleagues to capture him. Omble died in the process, but Kasab was captured, tried and sentenced to death by a Mumbai court. The incident shook the nation and the rest of the world. There was widespread anger against the governments in the state and at the Centre for their failure to prevent such an attack as well as their inadequate, scattered response to it. Terror attacks were not new for Mumbai. India’s financial capital was struck by another coordinated terror attack on March 12, 1993, when the city was rocked by 12 serial bomb explosions, killing 257 and injuring 1400. In 2006, the city’s famed local train network was attacked with bombs exploding in seven suburban trains, killing 209 and injuring 700. However, the 2008 attack was different. For the first time in India’s financial capital, terrorists barged into public places and opened fire, killing innocent people. It was unprecedented. With widespread anger among the people who were scared and felt helpless, the political fallout was inevitable. And quick. On November 30, then Union home minister Shivraj Patil resigned, accepting moral responsibility for Central government’s failure to prevent the terror attack due to an intelligence failure and also the failure to effectively counter the terrorists. It was alleged that the delay in National Security Guard (NSG) commandos reaching Mumbai led to more deaths. The next day, state home minister R R Patil, whose department was directly responsible for the city’s and the state’s security and law enforcement – had to resign. The public anger did not die down. Chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh had to step down on December 5. A minister in the then Deshmukh cabinet said, “It was a military-like operation by the terrorists. Intelligence agencies were unable to get much information beforehand. There were intelligence inputs that an attack was likely, but specific details were not forthcoming. But then, one cannot deny the fact that a city that had seen deadly terror attacks since 1993 was just not prepared for this kind of attack.” He added, “Since 1993, trains or train stations as well as five-star hotels were targeted but no system was in place to prevent another terror attack at these places. This was evident during the 26/11 attack. The public’s anger was not surprising at all. It had an everlasting impact on the state; politicians had no option but to give top priority to security.” Expectedly, 26/11 significantly influenced the way the government and the parties in power reacted to terror activity. On December 8, Ashok Chavan, a senior Congress leader, took over as chief minister while Jayant Patil of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) became home minister. At the Centre, Congress leader P Chidambaram took over as Union home minister. On December 30, Chavan appointed a two-member inquiry commission under former Union home secretary Ram Pradhan to probe the lapses in preventing as well as handling the terror attack, and also to recommend steps to be taken to avoid a repeat of 26/11. The Pradhan Committee submitted its report in April 2009. The government adopted most of its recommendations. “Security became a priority and politicians (in power) understood it. Immediately after the incident and later after Ram Pradhan led committee submitted its report, several decisions were taken to restructure the police force. From a force than maintained law and order, it was made a security focused force,” said Chandra Iyengar, a retired Indian Administration Service (IAS) officer who took over as state home secretary in the aftermath of 26/11. “We spent significant funds on upgrading the intelligence infrastructure. It was also decided to install a CCTV network across the city. Even private establishments were told to set up surveillance cameras in their premises. We also started focusing on coastline,” she said. The state government created Force One, its own elite commando unit similar to the NSG. Iyengar said that in the aftermath of the dastardly attack, the government wanted to ensure that “we didn’t become a frightened society.” She said, “We wanted to ensure Mumbai remained Mumbai and hence avoided clamping down on public activities. Instead, we stressed on analysing each and every intelligence input. A statewide anti-terrorism squad was formed to deal with terror threats.” A senior home official in the current administration said security measures have continued to remain a top priority of successive governments, even if parties in power kept changing since 2009. For instance, Devendra Fadnavis who headed the BJP-Shiv Sena government from 2014 to 2019 ensured that the city’s CCTV network project became fully operational during his tenure. The system that has been set up to gather intelligence and analyse any terror threat continues to function. “For us, the terror attack anniversary doesn’t mean much since it is a continuous process. It is an everyday job for the state’s security apparatus,” the official said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said political parties realised that they could not take chances when it came to security. “Security and anti-terror measures are now on the agenda of every prominent political party. Of course, there were controversies. Decisions taken regarding the purchase of bulletproof vests for the city police, setting up CCTV network and even the quality of certain equipment bought for marine police faced scrutiny. However, by and large, the task of constantly updating the security infrastructure is taken seriously by politicians. Will it remain so? Well, that remains to be seen,” he said. Though there were angry reactions, the ruling Congress-NCP combine returned to power in the assembly elections held next year in 2009. Desai said, “Ruling parties managed to deflect the criticism by quickly removing the home ministers and chief ministers to show that those who erred were being held accountable. The steps taken by them to upgrade security infrastructure probably convinced people that efforts were being taken to prevent a repeat of 26/11. Besides, a better performance of the UPA government on the economic front restored some goodwill among the public, and the mood of the electorate was not hostile to the ruling combine.” The city has not witnessed any major terror attack in the 13 years since 26/11. “One might say we are lucky but if we see from the governance angle, it is also outcome of the effort of both Central and state security and intelligence agencies,” added the above-mentioned home official. But can we truly say our government and its agencies have learned the lesson? “Let’s hope so,” remarked Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2611-the-day-terror-hit-us-101637865751628.html
26-11-2021||Noida||Enthusiastic crowd welcomes PM Modi at Noida airport event||Around 200,000 people gathered in Jewar on Thursday to watch Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi lay the foundation stone of the ambitious Noida international airport project. Though the event was scheduled to start at noon, people started trickling into the venue from 8am. All roads leading to the venue in Ranhera village, Jewar, were crowded with people in tractors, buses, cars, all driving to the same destination. Huge billboards welcoming PM Modi to Jewar and congratulating locals on the “bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking ceremony)” of the airport were erected along Yamuna Expressway and other major roads in Jewar. Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh also took out a massive tractor rally at 10am from the Faleda exit on Yamuna Expressway, 10 kilometres away from the venue. “Exactly a year ago, farmers of the country set out to New Delhi to put their demands in front of PM Modi regarding the farm laws. However today, farmers at our rally are celebrating PM Modi’s arrival here and have set out to welcome him. Almost 100,000 people participated in our rally and arrived at the venue,” said Singh.Coming close on the heels of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled early next year, local BJP workers said that the event holds significance for the state government.“PM Modi’s presence here today means that our vote matters to him. February’s elections are dominating discussions among villagers and with this event being held here, it will play an important role to decide the vote of the people,” Jagdish Singh, a local BJP worker from Faleda village, said.The Noida airport is the 10th airport to be built in the state in the last seven years, will have a capacity of 12 million passengers per annum (in the first phase), and will commence construction of its second phase by 2031-32. The cost of the first phase of development is ₹4,588 crore and the total cost of the project is pegged at ₹29,560 crore, senior officials said. A total of 1,324 hectares have been acquired for the project in the first phase, and two runways will come up in the first phase. According to civil aviation ministry officials, flight operations are expected to commence from the greenfield airport by 2024. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is closely monitoring the airport’s development,” said Rajiv Bansal, secretary, Union ministry of civil aviation. Depending on passenger demand, the airport is expected to be built in four phases, said people aware of the matter. After the second phase (which is expected to cost an estimated ₹5,983 crore), the capacity of the airport is expected to go up to 30 million passengers per annum, officials aware of the matter said.In the third phase (expected to be developed at a cost of ₹8,415 crore), work on which is expected to begin by 2036-2037, the estimated target capacity is 50 million passengers; and after the fourth (expected to be developed at a cost of ₹10,575 crore) and final phase (by 2040), the aviation hub will be able to handle 70 million passengers per annum, the officials said.There will be a maintenance, repair and operation (MRO) facility here built on 40 acres of land at a cost of ₹30,000 crore, by Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, the special purpose vehicle formed to develop and operate this airport. On Thursday afternoon in Ranhera, large life-size cutouts and banners of PM Modi were dotted across the dusty, grassless ground. Masses waiting for PM Modi to arrive would clap to beats, often break into dance and sing along to the tunes. The most repeated lyric in these songs was about “vikas (development)”.Local leaders took to the stage around noon and spoke until the PM’s arrival.When the sound of a helicopter was heard, the crowd yelled “Modi has come!” and climbed atop barricades to catch a glimpse of the PM. However, they were disappointed as the security arrangements didn’t allow the crowd to get close to him.As Modi began his descent from the helicopter, chants of “Modi-Yogi”, “Jai Shri Ram” and “Vande Matram” went up.Starting his address at 2.40pm, Modi listed the UP government’s achievements and detailed the benefits that the Noida airport would bring to the locals in Jewar. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia also spoke.Within minutes of PM Modi and his entourage of ministers leaving the stage, the crowd dispersed from the venue. Many took the opportunity to carry back home the large cutouts of PM Modi’s waving figurine. When asked what they plan to do with the cut out, Siraj Zaidi, a resident of Kishorepur village in Jewar,said, “PM Modi is the most popular star of the country. I will place this cutout at my tea shop in the village to attract more customers and to give my shop a uniqueness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/enthusiastic-crowd-welcomes-pm-modi-at-noida-airport-event-101637865332832.html
26-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 253 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Thursday||PUNE: Pune district reported 253 new Covid19 cases and six deaths on Thursday, as per the state health department. The total number of active cases in the district is 1,982. As per the state health department, of the 253 new positive cases, 100 cases are from Pune rural, 94 cases from the Pune Municipal Corporation and the balance 59 cases are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. With cases in PMC and PCMC in two-digit figures for the last few days and a new surge in Europe, authorities are appealing to citizens to use a face mask in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-253-new-covid-19-cases-and-six-deaths-on-thursday-101637865271464.html
26-11-2021||Noida||Low temperatures cause dengue cases to decline in Ghaziabad||The number of dengue cases in Ghaziabad peaked in October and are now witnessing a decline, officials of the district health department said on Thursday.According to official figures, Ghaziabad recorded 1,200 dengue cases till Wednesday, with the first case reported on September 1. Figures indicate that the overall positivity rate is 22.72%. The district reported 312 dengue cases in September on the back of 984 tests and a positivity rate of 31.71% -- highest in the past three months. The positivity rate in October was 23.55%, with 647 cases returning positive for dengue of the 2,747 tests. In November, the positivity rate dipped further to 15.55%, on the basis of 241 cases from 1,550 tests, said officials.“The overall positivity rate has declined, and we can safely say that the dengue cases are declining. It has resulted due to lowering of temperatures. At present, we have a maximum of five to six cases daily. In October, nearly 30 or more dengue cases were reported a day. The overall tally includes a dengue death in October, which was confirmed by the Elisa test later,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer, Ghaziabad.“It is expected that no fresh dengue cases will be reported for another fortnight or so. Nearly 150 to 200 people tested themselves for dengue till October, but in November, the numbers have considerably declined to 30 to 40 per day. Teams concerned are working on surveillance, and taking up anti-dengue measures till date,” Dr Gupta added.There is a declining trend of dengue cases already, experts say.“Dengue cases usually decline during November or December, with a rise in the temperature. There has been a considerable decline in the number of dengue cases being reported During the past 10 to 15 days. At present, there is a persistence trend in cases of viral fever and influenza. It is expected that dengue cases will see a further decline in December,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.According to official figures, Ghaziabad this year reported the highest number of dengue cases at 1,200, after 2013, when the count for the vector-borne disease was 1,622 with a total of four deaths. Ever since, the dengue tally has remained below the 1,000-mark.“The rise in dengue cases has also resulted due to the prolonged monsoon this year, which gave way to rapid waterlogging incidents. There is no other apparent reason behind the spike in dengue cases, other than the prolonged monsoon. Fresh cases, however, are seeing a decline at present,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/low-temperatures-cause-dengue-cases-to-decline-in-ghaziabad-101637865211542.html
26-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body allocates land in Sector 70 to set up waste transfer station||With an aim to enhance waste segregation and reduce the load at Bandhwari landfill, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has allocated land in Sector 70 to its waste concessionaire Ecogreen in ward 25 for setting up a waste transfer station that will help segregate waste coming from the areas falling under Zone 4 , said civic officials on Thursday. A waste transfer station is a centre where a large amount of waste is segregated -- both with machines and manually -- and recyclable items, such as bottles, plastics, batteries, glass, wood, are recovered. The recyclable items are sent to authorised recyclers while the remaining is sent to Bandhwari landfill. A waste transfer station helps bring down the total waste load that is sent to the landfill by 20-25%. Each transfer station has the capacity to segregate around 120 tonnes of waste daily.The MCG has waste transfer stations at Atul Kataria Chowk, Beriwala Bagh, Sushant Lok 1 but does not have one in Zone 4. Areas falling on the left side of the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) after Vatika Chowk, such as sectors 66 to 76, Badshahpur, and Darbaripur, come under ward 25. Besides these, areas such as South City 2, sectors 30, 31, 32, 51, Nirvana Country fall under Zone 4. With the municipal corporation taking only segregated waste from residents since November 11, setting up another waste transfer station is expected to further reduce the load on the overburdened Bandhwari landfill. “We will be initiating the takeover (of the land) from next month and start setting up the infrastructure. While the centre will be used for segregation, Ecogreen is also in the process of sensitising residents about the need for waste segregation in their households, the success of which will do away with the need for such waste transfer stations in future,” said Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson of Ecogreen.“Waste segregation is not only an important step for reducing garbage load but also shows us ways of how we can generate wealth out of the waste we produce -- either by recycling or converting organic matter into compost. The allocation of land for a new waste transfer station in zone 4 is just another step towards this cause. This will help decentralise and streamline the waste management system and reduce the total garbage load carried to the Bandhwari landfill,” said Dr Vaishali Sharma, additional commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-allocates-land-in-sector-70-to-set-up-waste-transfer-station-101637865155115.html
26-11-2021||Pune||The science of training an athlete’s mind and body is the key: Tapan Panigrahi||PUNE Pune-based swimming coach Tapan Kumar Panigrahi, who received the Dronacharya award on November 13, has urged city coaches to include sports science in their physical training schedule, as this will play an important role in the overall training of an athlete. “Scientific training should be started at a young age. The right age to introduce this training in an athlete’s daily schedule is from 12 to 14 years. The results, however, will be seen in the future,” says Panigrahi. Panigrahi, till date, he has trained 250 national level swimmers and 60 international swimmers. He has also trained para swimmers. “I tell the athletes about the characteristics required to compete in sporting events. Once they are aware, they prepare their body in a better way,” says Panigrahi.Coaching para swimmers Para swimmer Suyash Jadhav who was a medal prospect for India at the Tokyo Paralympics has been trained by Panigrahi, however, due to health issues, Jadhav could not give his best performance at the event. “He (Suyash) and his father, both were not well for 12 days in Tokyo and had a mild fever. I was expecting him to win a bronze medal. I hope that he wins a medal in the 2024 games,” added Panigrahi. India’s Olympic swimming medal hopes Panigrahi feels that Indian swimmers are falling short and are not performing well at the Olympics. “Our swimmers are winning medals at international events, but when it comes to the Olympics, we are falling a short in the qualifying rounds. The performance has improved, let’s hope to see more swimmers qualify for 2024 Olympics,” added Panigrahi. In the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, three swimmers – Sajan Prakash, Srihari Nataraj and Manna Patel qualified for the games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-science-of-training-an-athlete-s-mind-and-body-is-the-key-tapan-panigrahi-101637865094867.html
26-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Schools to reopen today even as IMD forecasts ‘very poor’ air||Taking a cue from neighbouring Delhi, which decided to reopen schools from coming Monday, the district administration of Gurugram said all schools and educational institutions will open from Friday onwards with strict compliance to Covid appropriate behaviour. The decision to reopen schools and educational institution comes despite the Supreme Court reimposing the ban on construction activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), while allowing some ancillary non-polluting works like plumbing and electrical fitting. Previously, the Supreme Court had ordered for the shutting of schools and a ban on construction activities for around a week after pollution levels spiked to ‘severe’ levels.Meanwhile, according to the air quality index (AQI) bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, Gurugram was in the ‘very poor’ zone on Thursday with an AQI reading of 334. The monitoring station in Vikas Sadan recorded an AQI of 329, Sector 51 monitoring station recorded AQI 374, TERI Gram recorded AQI 293 while at Gwal Pahari, the recording was 246. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday there will be mostly calm and slow winds on Friday, which are unfavourable for the effective dispersion of pollutants. “The air quality is likely to be in the upper end of the very poor category on Friday and Saturday. For the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category. Gradual improvement is likely from Saturday,” said the IMD in its forecast. IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 26 degrees Celsius on Thursday and a minimum of 9.4°C. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said declining temperature and low wind speed will ensure that pollutants do not get dispersed and the air quality remains in the ‘very poor’ category in the city for next few days. “We are expecting things to improve slightly in December when it rains,” he said. Meanwhile, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board said that as per the directions of the Supreme Court, it had reimposed the ban on construction and demolition activities to curb air pollution in Gururgam and adjoining NCR districts. The district pollution authorities also directed 48 industries to use only clean fuel as only industries using piped natural gas are allowed to operate. They also said they have imposed environment compensation penalty of ₹12.25 lakh against those found violating Grap (graded response action plan) guidelines. “We have imposed penalty on NHAI and its contractor for pollution on Dwarka Expressway. Three construction sites in Udyog Vihar and one in Sohna were also penalised. Penalties were also slapped on those using diesel generator sets. Strict action is being taken against violators; We have also asked government agencies to follow norms, else penalties will be levied on them,” said Kuldip Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, north. S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, said that all directions given by the Supreme Court are being implemented in the NCR districts. “The construction activities are banned. The non-polluting activities, such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry, are allowed to continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramschools-to-reopen-today-even-as-imd-forecasts-very-poor-air-101637865091610.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Probe pending in half the cases, say police||Of the total 758 cases registered in connection with communal riots in north-east Delhi in February last year, the city police has completed the investigation and filed charge sheets only in 361 cases as on October 4, the Delhi high court was informed on Thursday.Even in cases where the charge sheet has been filed, trial has begun in just over 67 cases (18%), Delhi police told the court.The police also added that four cases have been quashed by the Delhi high court and accused have been acquitted in one case.In a status report filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, the city police said that of the total, 695 cases are being probed by the local police and charge sheets were filed in 315 cases. It further said that of the 695 cases, charges have been framed in 56 cases and in two cases, the accused were given a clean chit even before the trial started.The status report was filed by special public prosecutor Rajat Nair, appearing for the Delhi Police, in a batch of petitions related to the last year’s violence.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after a standoff between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and opposers got out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.On Thursday, the court asked the police to file an updated status report and posted the matter for hearing on January 28.“We direct the respondent (Delhi Police) to file a further detailed affidavit giving details of cases pending before the trial courts,” the court said, noting the present affidavit was not on its record. The city police informed that the legal process in all pending cases is at an advanced stage.“Out of 758 cases registered, 695 cases are being investigated by north-east district police. 62 cases that pertained to major incidents like murders etc were transferred to the crime branch, which had undertaken an investigation in the said cases by employing 3 dedicated special investigating teams (SITs), being continuously monitored by the superior officers. One case of larger conspiracy behind the engineering of the communal riots in Delhi is being investigated in special cell,” the affidavit stated.It said that all cases are investigated promptly, diligently, fairly, and in accordance with the law and that there is no ground to transfer the cases to a fresh SIT.“The same is manifested from the orders passed by this court, while considering the bail application of the accused, where this court has been pleased to dismiss the bails, on the basis of material available against the accused belonging to both communities,” it said.The court is hearing several petitions including a plea which has alleged that several politicians gave hate speeches in the lead up to the riots. Apart from seeking action against those who allegedly gave the hate speeches, some pleas have also sought other reliefs, including setting up of an SIT, FIRs against police officers who were allegedly involved in the violence, and disclosure of persons arrested and detained.The court has also been hearing a PIL by Delhi resident Ajay Gautam seeking an NIA probe under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) law into the violence. The petition has urged the court to direct the Centre to order the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to find out the “anti-national forces” behind the agitations and to probe the role of Popular Front of India (PFI) which is allegedly “funding, motivating and supporting the protests”.In its response, the police had earlier told the court that it had already created three SITs under the crime branch and that there was no evidence till now that its officers were involved in the violence. It had added that the families of people arrested and detained in connection with the riots had been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-probe-pending-in-half-the-cases-say-police-101637864794053.html
26-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Muslims to approach court for relief in namaz controversy||With disruptions of namaz gatherings in the open continuing to take place every Friday in Gurugram, members of the Muslim community on Thursday said they have no option left but to approach the court, seeking relief from the continuous harassment and uphold their constitutional right to religious freedom and worship.cBut Muslim groups have maintained that the number of mosques in the city is not adequate for Friday congregations.As protests that started in Sector 37 spread to Sector 12A and other areas, Gurugram administration earlier this month reduced the number of public sites for namaz from 37 to 20. But disruptions continued even at these designated points until last Friday.Muslims said apart from taking legal recourse, they would also file complaints with the police against individuals and organisations for hurting religious sentiments. “We have little hope from the authorities, so we are planning to approach the court to enforce our constitutional rights. We have also decided to lodge complaints against those who have harassed our community members,” said Altaf Ahmad, founder, Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ platform. He said they were still working out the details of which court to approach and when, among others.On Thursday, a few Hindu residents of Khandsa Village submitted a memorandum to the district administration opposing Friday prayers near Khandsa Chowk.Rajiv Mittal, spokesperson, Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, an umbrella group of rightwing organisation opposing namaz in the open, said the protest in Khandsa will be led by residents but they will support it.“The memorandum to oppose the namaz has been submitted by residents of Khandsa Village and those living in Sector 37. We will support the protests and, if need be, gather there,” said Mittal, adding that they have already given a deadline of December 4 for stopping such public prayers.HT has a copy of the memorandum received by the administration but none of Khandsa residents, who submitted it, could be reached for a comment.Mittal also said around 30 persons from the Sikh community are coming from Delhi and Amritsar to oppose the proposal of offering gurdwara premises for Friday prayers.Last week, Sikh community leaders offered the premises of gurdwaras for namaz, but withdrew the offer a couple of days later under pressure from rightwing groups and also from those within their community.Sardar Raviranjan Singh, vice-president, Gurmat prachar Jatha Panch Khalsa, said Sangat members will reach the gurdwara in Sadar on Friday to prevent namaz on the premises. “People from all community are welcome to pray and share the langar prasad but we will not allow namaz or any other religious worship that is not permitted by the Gurmat Rehat maryada,” he said.The Gurugram police, meanwhile, said personnel will be deployed at all designated spots to maintain law and order. “Duties have already been assigned and adequate deployment would be made to maintain law and order so that there is no disturbance during Friday prayers,” said Subhash Boken, police spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-muslims-to-approach-court-for-relief-in-namaz-controversy-101637864611411.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns severe, no relief in sight till next week||The air quality in the city deteriorated on Thursday, and was on the brink of the “severe” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, before plunging into deep red later in the evening, as calm surface winds were unable to disperse pollutants. Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) touched 400 – just point short of “severe” -- in the 4pm reading that is taken as the pollution marker for the day. By 9pm, the average climbed to 401, and was on an upward trend at several stations across the city. The Capital has seen a sudden drop in air quality in the past 48 hours: it was 290 (poor) on Tuesday and 361 (very poor) on Wednesday.Weather forecasting agencies said no immediate relief is expected as calm conditions are likely to continue till November 28, after which wind speeds may increase to 15-20 km/hr on Monday, facilitating the dispersal of pollutants.According to Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), calm wind conditions will prevail at night and in the early hours of the morning for the next three days. “A combination of local emissions and weather conditions are playing a part now, with stubble burning reducing considerably,” said Beig.The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentration was 6%, with 219 fires recorded by Safar across the northern plains. “On November 29, local surface winds are likely to increase, resulting in improvement of air quality, but even then, it will be within the ‘very poor’ category,” Beig added.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9.7 degrees Celsius (°C) on Thursday, 0.5 degrees above Wednesday’s minimum temperature of 9.2°C. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at private forecasting agency Skymet, said temperatures are not likely to dip below 9°C this week. “Temperatures will hover around 10-11 degrees for the next few days,” he said, and concurred with Safar’s forecast of three more high-pollution days until Monday.According to Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi – another forecasting mechanism under the ministry of earth sciences -- a combination of low wind speed and a low ventilation index was negatively impacting Delhi’s air. While wind speed in the city touched 10km/hr during the day on Thursday, EWS said, it will drop to a maximum speed of 8km/hr on Friday and Saturday, with the Delhi’s ventilation index (measure of the volume rate of horizontal transport of air within the mixing layer) varying from 500-1,500 sqm/second in the next two days. “A ventilation index lower than 6,000sqm/sec, with an average wind speed less than 10km/hr, is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants,” it said.The Delhi government on Thursday announced a ban on construction and demolition activities in the Capital once again, following a Supreme Court on Wednesday reimposing the ban in the wake of deteriorating air quality. Schools and educational institutions in the Capital are set to open next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-turns-severe-no-relief-in-sight-till-next-week-101637864431463.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Farm protests: Farmers at Singhu prepare for first anniversary||On the eve of the one-year anniversary of the farmer’s protest, Singhu border appears as vibrant as it was when the farmers first arrived at the Delhi border. The sale of flags, badges and t-shirts bearing popular slogans such as ‘I Love Farmers’, ‘No Farmers, No Food’ and ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad’ has shot up in the last 48 hours, with tractors carrying farmers from villages in Punjab reaching Delhi to mark the occasion.Farmers said there will be special langar (community meals) services and music on Friday to thank all those who stayed put to make their movement against the three farm laws successful.Thousands of farmers rallied to the borders of Delhi last November to protest against three laws brought by the centre that sought to deregulate farm trade. Though the protests continued at several border points, Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur emerged as the ground zero of the agitation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced that the government will repeal the three farm laws, even as the protesters described it as a “half victory”, and said that they will continue their movement until all of their demands are met.After the Centre’s announcement, and with the first anniversary of the protests approaching, there has been a festive atmosphere at Singhu.Till last week, only a handful of flags could be seen adorning the protest site at Singhu, but now there is a new-found enthusiasm even among the local residents, several protesters at the site said on Thursday.“Badges in particulars are finding a lot of takers once again. I have sold over 500 badges since Thursday morning and anyone reaching here from Punjab and Haryana wants to join the celebrations,” said Sehendar Pal, who hails from Uttar Pradesh and has been selling these items at Singhu for the past one year.On Thursday too, hundreds of farmers could be seen reaching the Singhu border, mostly on tractors with Punjabi songs being played on attached speakers. Parvinder Singh, a farmer from Hoshiarpur, who reached the border on Thursday, said most of the people in his village have either reached Delhi, or are planning to come. “Only a handful of people may stay back. While we would go back home in batches, everyone wants to come here for the November 26 anniversary,” he said.Till Thursday evening, the Prabandhak Committee members were planning how the anniversary celebrations will unravel, stating that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will take a final call. “This will be an occasion to thank all those who stayed behind and helped make this movement so successful. It will also be the occasion to commemorate all the lives that were lost,” said committee member Bhajan Singh, adding that they were still contemplating whether to cut a cake to celebrate the occasion or not.Popular Punjabi singer Babbu Mann will perform on the main stage on Friday. “We are giving five minutes to everyone (those who will come to affirm their support), including him. He can perform a song, or spend his time talking about the movement and thanking the farmers,” Bhajan Singh added.Closer towards the stage, a blood donation camp was opened on Thursday, and will go on till Friday, the farmers said. “We have been periodically setting up camps, as those visiting have been keen on donating blood. We were called to set up a camp for the occasion,” says Sumit Kumar from the Divine Charitable Blood Centre in Faridabad.Langar services are also being prepared. Seasonal vegetables such as saag (green leafy vegetables) were on the menu for Friday, the organisers said.Hardyal Singh, part of the Guru Nanak Langar sewa, said the numbers at the border have increased considerably over the past one week. “We will be preparing kheer and seasonal vegetables. We will be satisfied to serve everyone who wants to enjoy the langar tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-protests-farmers-at-singhu-prepare-for-first-anniversary-101637864254421.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||NFHS-5: Physical abuse of pregnant women, sexual violence rising in Delhi||Instances of physical abuse of pregnant married women and sexual violence on young women are on the rise in the national capital, the fifth round of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), the findings of which was released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday, has revealed.According to the findings, physical abuse of pregnant married women, in the 18-49 age group, rose marginally from 3.4% in 2015-16 to 3.6% in 2020-21. The survey also shows that the number of young women (18-29), who have experienced sexual violence by the age of 18, rose from 0.0 (nil) in 2015-16 to 1.6% in 2020-21.There was, however, a decline in incidents of spousal violence among married women — it came down from 26.8% in 2015-16 to 22.6% in 2020-21. Spousal violence is defined as physical and/or sexual violence. While experts attributed the increase in physical abuse of pregnant women and sexual violence on young women to the pandemic-induced inequalities and restrictions, they said the decline in instances of spousal violence could be due to a lack of avenues (for reporting such crimes) or the absence of reporting mechanisms. The data for the survey was collected in two phases — January 4, 2020, to March 2, 2020 (prior to the Covid lockdown), and November 21, 2020, to January 20, 2021. A total of 9,486 households, 11,159 women, and 1,700 men were surveyed in the Delhi. All comparative figures are from NFHS-4, for which data was collected in 2015-16. Ranjana Kumari, director, Centre for Social Research, said the findings pertaining to the decline in spousal violence did not align with the experience of women rights organisations and NGOs that registered a significant increase in distress calls during the pandemic. “There is a possibility that there was no support system for women to report (the violence). Women probably did not come out to report even if they were suffering. Almost all organisations, including the National Commission for Women, saw an unprecedented increase in instances of domestic violence. However, it is also possible that there might have been some improvement in the period before the pandemic,” said Kumari. Jaya Velankar, director, Jagori, a women’s organisation based out of Delhi, said they witnessed an over 70% increase in the number of distress calls during the first lockdown (in March 2020) and incidents of domestic violence did not abate even after the lockdown was lifted. “Families lost their sources of livelihood. Men lost their jobs. People are still spending time at home due to which women continue to be with their abusers for a prolonged period of time. While structural violence has gone up, there has been an increase in inequality as well with women being deprived of college education,” said Velankar. She also added that pregnant women were most vulnerable and anecdotal evidence showed that incidents of violence against such women were not uncommon. Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) member Ranjana Prasad said the commission operated helplines through which awareness pertaining to issues of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children were being taken care of since the pandemic started. “We receive all kinds of complaints on our helpline — of physical violence or request for relief for pregnant women. We take cognisance of all complaints. The lockdown period was a time of crisis. People lost their jobs and there was stress on the family setup, which might have aided violence. However, whenever any kind of complaint reaches us, we take steps. We also provide mental health support to young women and families through our helpline,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nfhs5-physical-abuse-of-pregnant-women-sexual-violence-rising-in-delhi-101637864253196.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Four out of 10 people in Delhi overweight, finds survey||Almost 4 out of every 10 people in Delhi are either overweight or obese according to the summary findings of the National Family Health Survey-5 , a significant deterioration from the previous edition of the survey in 2015-16. According to the survey, 41.3% of adult women and 38% men have a body-mass index (BMI) in excess of 25. This has increased from 33.5% for women and 24.6% for men from NFHS-4. The numbers are also higher than the national average -- 24% women and 22.9% men. BMI – an indicator of body fat based on the height and weight of a person – between 18.5 and 24.9 is considered healthy, and between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight. That over 30 is considered obese. The NFHS data does not give a clear break up of how many people are overweight or obese.“The increasing rates of obesity means more people will end up with lifestyles diseases in the future. We need to ensure that we take action now to prevent this... We need to increase awareness about proper diet and exercise. Not only are people eating more than the required daily calories, they are also leading a more sedentary life, especially in urbanised centres like Delhi. There is also a need to add labelling about fat, sugar, salt, and total calorie content in the front of packaged items to warn people,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College. A 2020 study by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine predicted that 27.4% women would be overweight and 13.9%, obese by 2040 in India. For men, the corresponding proportions are 30.5% and 9.5%. Obesity is one of the biggest risk factors for other lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, and heart ailments. A little over one in two men (56%) and close to two-thirds (65%) women who are currently 20 years old are likely develop diabetes later in life, with the obese being at an 85% risk of developing diabetes, according to a 2020 study by researchers from US, UK and India including doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The silver lining? There has been a decline in the proportion of people who are underweight, the data shows. In Delhi, 10% women and 9.1% men are underweight, meaning they have a BMI under 18.5. As for lifestyle diseases, 4.2% women and 5.3% men have high blood sugar levels between 141 and 160mg/dL and 6.3% women and 7.3% men have very high blood sugar level over 160 mg/dL. Comparable data from the previous round of survey is not available for these parameters. The survey also shows that 14.7% women had mildly elevated blood pressure and 5.9% had moderately or severely elevated blood pressure. Among men, 21.8% had mildly high blood pressure and 8.7% had moderate to severely high blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-out-of-10-people-in-delhi-overweight-finds-survey-101637864191437.html
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Manohar Lal Khattar enrols in Japanese language course. Big test in 3 months||KARNAL: His aides may need to rework Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s schedule for the next three months if they haven’t already. The Japanese language course for which the chief minister enrolled is tentatively scheduled to start from November 28, a top university faculty member said.Khattar announced his decision to enrol for the Japanese language course in August when he formally launched the online certificate course at a Kurukshetra University event. The chief minister declared that he will be the first student to enrol for the course designed for government functionaries.In a statement on Thursday, the university confirmed that the chief minister did stick to his word.Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said it was a matter of pride for the university that the chief minister was the first student of the Japanese language course. The last deadline to pay the ₹10,000 fee was November 22.Prof. Brajesh Sawhney, chairperson of the university’s Department of Foreign Languages said the online course is tailored specifically to meet the needs of government representatives and top officials to further collaborations between India and Japan in the field of business, economy, research and education.The classes will be held on two days every week, he said. The university has engaged a teacher from Japan for the certificate course.Of course, all students will need to attend a minimum number of classes, and will be tested for their language proficiency before they get the certificate, Prof Sawhney, who is also the university’s Dean, Faculty of Arts, said. He didn’t, however, specify if the test will be written or oral.The last time the chief minister probably sat in a classroom was 46 years ago, in 1975 when he graduated from Delhi University.This online class isn’t going to be as crowded. A university official told HT that there will be just six students. Among his coursemates will be his principal secretary V Umashankar, adviser Pawan Chaudhary and vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva.Prof. Sawhney said the course was designed to help government representatives improve interaction with top Japanese executives since Japan is one of the biggest investors in Haryana.The basic certificate course, he said, “will cover Japanese history, Japanese life-values, basics of Japanese writing and pronunciation, Japanese vocabulary and basic greetings used in daily life and business meetings”.To be sure, Haryana has gone to great lengths to encourage Japanese business leaders to set up shop in the state and expand existing factories. Like the India Japan Golf Meet hosted by the Haryana government in early 2020, weeks before the Covid-19 pandemic forced a national lockdown in India. Khattar made it a point to be present at the event, and in his speech, threw in a smattering of Japanese to impress his guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manohar-lal-khattar-enrols-in-japanese-language-course-big-test-in-3-months-101637863171968.html
26-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro launches driverless operations on Pink Line today||Driverless train operations on New Delhi’s Pink Line were inaugurated by union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and the Delhi government’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday.The move makes the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) the fourth biggest driverless Metro railway network in the world. The Pink Line, which connects Majlis Park with Shiv Vihar, is the longest Metro corridor in the Capital. The Pink Line is also the second Metro corridor in New Delhi to have driverless train operations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the country’s first driverless operations on the DMRC’s Magenta Line - connecting Botanical Garden with Janakpuri West - in December 2020.Puri said at the inauguration, “The DMRC is now the fourth largest driverless network [in the world]. The difference between the DMRC and Kuala Lumpur’s operational driverless network (No. 3 in the world) is just 500m. In less than a year, we added 58km to the driverless network… I can say with confidence that Delhi Metro can be compared with the best [metro systems].”Also Read: Delhi Metro services disrupted after bird gets stuck on train tracksGahlot said, “This is a milestone. Despite all the difficulties, the DMRC has completed the work. It will ensure passenger safety and minimise chances of human errors.”The flagging off event for driverless trains was done via videoconferencing.The DMRC’s driverless network now stands at a total of 96km, which is 9% of world’s total driverless Metro operations. Dubai, Singapore, Shanghai, Vancouver and Kuala Lumpur are among the few cities that have driverless Metro train services.Once the DMRC completes construction work on the Maujpur-Majlis Park extension corridor by 2023, New Delhi’s driverless Metro network will go up to 109km.Driverless operations on the Pink Line were scheduled to start earlier this year, but it was delayed as the DMRC couldn’t complete work on the Trilokpuri section, where it had to construct a viaduct. The section was made operational in August.DMRC officials said the corridor was inspected by the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety last week. The DMRC uses a signalling technology called Communication-based Train Control for driverless train operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-launches-driverless-operations-on-pink-line-today-101637832867735.html
