28-11-2021||Delhi||Cops probe tenants’ role in outer Delhi killing||The body of a 42-year-old man with his throat slit was found in a room in outer Delhi’s Ranhola area.Police said that Mamta, the victim’s sister who lives in Peeragarhi village made a PCR call on Friday night, saying she was unable to get in touch with her brother; and while looking for him at a building he owned, spotted a body on a bed through a window. “The room was opened in the presence of police and the man, identified as Pawan, was found with his throat slit,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer) Parvinder Singh said.Pawan’s sister Mamta said her brother, a resident of Ranhola village, owned another house in the village which he had rented out to a few families.She said his phone had been switched off all Friday. When she couldn’t get in touch with him all day, she panicked and went looking for him with her husband.When she reached his other property, she found that all the tenants had locked their rooms and left. When she checked the rooms on the first floor, she spotted the body in one of the locked rooms, a senior police officer said.“The tenants in the property had fled the rooms after locking them,” DCP Singh said.A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Ranhola police station on Saturday. Efforts are being made to arrest the perpetrators and raids are currently underway at the possible hideouts of the suspects, the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-probe-tenants-role-in-outer-delhi-killing-101638124042374.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Mann ki Baat: PM praises people’s efforts to restore Noon river in UP’s Jalaun||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly “Mann ki Baat” session on Sunday praised people’s collective efforts to rejuvenate the Noon river in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh, said the state government in a statement. “Noon river was on the verge of extinction. The river had virtually turned into a drain causing an irrigation crisis in the area. It was then that people made the resolution to restore it. A committee was formed in May this year and thousands of villagers and panchayats voluntarily joined the mission to revitalise the river. As a result, the river stands restored today with “sabka prayas (collective effort),” said the PM according to the statement.“Noon river has been rejuvenated in very little time and at little cost with people’s effort. It is a brilliant example of how people’s will can do wonders. When we protect nature, it also protects us,” the PM added.Earlier on June 28 last year during his Mann ki Baat session, PM Modi had lauded the Uttar Pradesh government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the rejuvenation of the river Kalyani in the Barabanki district of UP.The statement also said the UP government has revitalised dozens of rivers since 2018 as part of its vision to protect the environment. In the financial year 2018-19, the government rejuvenated six rivers, including Aril, Mandakini, Karnavati, Varuna, Morva and Gomti. In 2019-20, nineteen rivers spread over 26 districts, including Tedhi, Manorama, Pandu, Varuna, and Sasur Khadedi, were restored. Similarly in 2020-21, twenty-five rivers in 36 districts were rejuvenated. The statement said CM Yogi Adityanath thanked the PM for his continuous support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-praises-people-s-efforts-to-restore-noon-river-in-up-s-jalaun-101638123981965.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||AAP’s MCD poll campaign to kick off this week: Gopal Rai||New Delhi: Ahead of the municipal elections scheduled for early next year, Delhi environment minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state convenor Gopal Rai on Sunday said that his party will launch the poll campaign from Thursday.Also Read | Delhi: Municipal bodies hunt for cash crunch fix ahead of next year’s pollsRai said that responsibilities have been assigned to the office-bearers for the “MCD Badlaav” campaign which will also see the use of a dedicated mobile application to assist the drive. He added that an in-charge will be appointed in each division.“On December 5, teams in every division of Delhi will launch the campaign at the ground level by placing help desks,” Rai said.According to Rai, AAP functionaries will also carry out a membership drive under this campaign. “We will upload the data through a special app to streamline the data and for efficient work. The training for this app will be given at the party office. On Saturday, the district teams of the party’s state organisation, observers, and the speaker and organisation ministers from each assembly were trained at the party office,” he said, adding that a series of training sessions have been planned between November 28 and December 1.Rai said that the party has further finalised the members who will be in-charge of the campaign from each mandal, adding that the idea is to have at least 8-10 people in every street.AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta said that the aim is to have about 50 names from every booth. “Out of them, at least two people should be the ones to whom we can give the responsibility,” Gupta said.As the five-year term of three municipal corporations is set to expire in April 2022, Delhi will be holding elections to elect 272 municipal councillors in three municipal corporations early next year. The North and South MCDs have 104 municipal wards while EDMC has 64 municipal wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aaps-mcd-poll-campaign-to-kick-off-this-week-gopal-rai-101638123924405.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body push for stray adoption: Free vaccines, sterilisations||In a bid to encourage the adoption of community dogs (the correct term for strays) in the trans-Yamuna area, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will help with free sterilisation, vaccination and registration of the canines. EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said that the civic body will also run a campaign for the adoption of community dogs. “If anyone wants to adopt a community dog, the municipal corporation will complete vaccination, registration and other formalities,” Anand said, adding that interested people can contact the veterinary department through EDMC helplines.Dr Mool Chand, who heads the veterinary department in east Delhi, said that an institutionalised community dog adoption programme is being set up. “We are working with two NGOs who are running sterilisation and vaccination programmes in animal birth control centres. Every colony has community dogs and we are trying to encourage the adoption of community dogs. Free vaccination, sterilisation and registration can be an incentive,” he added. The veterinary director said that people can adopt more than one community dog. “We hope that this will also help resolve the conflict between people who feed and care for dogs and residents who do not want such dogs in their neighbourhood. The dogs will be officially registered under the adopter’s name and live with them,” he added.The civic body also plans to increase the number of animal birth control centres and tenders will soon be issued to find interested NGOs, Dr Chand said. “We have two operational centres in Usmanpur and Ghazipur. Delhi has 16 such animal birth control centres. We are paying NGOs ₹1,000 per dog for sterilisation and vaccination, and ₹900 in case the animal is also picked up and transported by the veterinary department,” an official said. The government does not have data on how many community dogs roam around on Delhi streets. “The last pan-Delhi survey was conducted by the erstwhile united MCD in 2009, when the number of community dogs was found to be over 560,000. Officials said that the number must have only increased in the following years.The national Capital has a chequered history of tackling its community dog population. Once the community dog population skyrocketed in the 1990s, corporations started feeding them the neurotoxin poison strychnine, which leads to convulsions and painful death. The practice was stopped in 2001, after which civic bodies tried using chemosterilant Talsur---a drug injected in male dogs’ reproductive parts---but this too proved to be ineffective and painful for the dogs, an official said. Since then, civic bodies have been using operative sterilisation to control the dog population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-civic-body-push-for-stray-adoption-free-vaccines-sterilisations-101638123921897.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Speeding truck kills PhD student in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park||A 29-year-old PhD student from Haridwar died after a speeding truck ran over her in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area on Saturday evening, police said.Police said that the incident took place around 10.20pm. They said they received a PCR call at Shastri Park police station regarding a fatal accident. The complainant Mohammad Muid (34) stated his friend Poonam, a resident of Cigarette Wala Bagh in Model Town, was returning from Haridwar. He said he picked her up from Old Delhi railway station and was taking her to Khajuri Khas on his scooter.When Muid crossed the Yudhister Setu, a truck hit his scooter and he and Poonam fell. Later, the truck ran over Poonam and the driver tried to flee the spot, a senior police officer said.The driver was caught by a head constable, Mamchand. While Muid was injured, Poonam was immediately taken to a hospital but was declared dead on arrival, police said.A case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (causing death by negligence) was registered at Shastri Park police station and the accused driver taken into custody, the officer said.Police identified the driver as Pramod Kumar (35), a resident of Pilibhit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/speeding-truck-kills-phd-student-in-northeast-delhi-s-shastri-park-101638123742922.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Pandemic catalyses growth of CNG crematoriums, but ​Delhi falls back to traditional ways||The subsequent waves of Covid-19 pandemic pushed alternative cremation methods into prominence in the city earlier this year but the demand for CNG and electric crematoriums have dwindled drastically in the subsequent months as people have returned to traditional wood-based cremations.Delhi had just two CNG crematoria earlier -- at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhumi -- but the pandemic saw the government doubling the number of furnaces at these facilities, and setting up new units in places like Green Park, Karkardooma, Subhash Nagar and Ghazipur.Avdhesh Kumar, funeral supervisor at the city’s biggest cremation ground at Nigambodh Ghat, said that people are returning to traditional funerals. “Almost everyone now prefers wood-based traditional cremation instead of CNG cremations, which is now less than 10%. When there was rush due to Covid, the CNG furnaces were in very high demand as people wanted a quicker medium. If there are around 50 normal wood-based cremations in a day, we get hardly 5-6 requests for CNG units now,” Kumar said.​Suman Gupta, the chief-coordinator of the NGO managing the ghat, too said that the preference for wood-based cremations is “clearly several-fold higher than CNG”.Across the western part of the city, Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhumi operates second largest battery of four CNG hearths but the funeral managers claim that these are barely utilised. “...some have religious apprehensions about the alternative methods. Many of them state that relatives will object to a non-traditional method,” said a funeral manager. A senior SDMC official overseeing the Punjabi Bagh and Subhash Nagar CNG units agreed. “Given an option, people are once again opting for wooden platforms and not for the CNG units,” the official said.​In the last one year alone, five new CNG crematorium sites -- in Dwarka Sector 24, Jwala Nagar, Seemapuri and Aya Nagar -- have been approved. The MCDs are inclined towards CNG crematoriums as electric ones are costlier due to high commercial electricity rates and filament maintenance, and they face regular tripping of power connections. Officials said that the electric unit at Green Park, which was laying unused for years, was converted to CNG in February this year, and the electric crematorium at Sarai Kale Khan is used only to cremate unclaimed bodies.Before the onset of the pandemic, the city used to see around 90,000 cremations every year, out of which over 90% were wood-based traditional cremations. The latest statistics released by the Delhi government in the ‘Annual Report on Registration of Births & Deaths in Delhi-2020’ shows that over 140,000 deaths were registered in 2020. The data for 2021 has not been released though. As per the daily Covid bulletin released by the Delhi government, the city has seen 25,097 deaths since the pandemic began in March 2020, but several news reports claim the number may be more than twice this figure.“Every year, Delhi witnesses deaths of people coming for treatment in its hospitals. On removing the burials in other communities and infant deaths, we estimate that at least 80,000 to 90,000 wood-based cremations are taking place every year,” said a senior public health official overseeing the operations of funeral sites in the city.Adding to pollution Each wood based traditional cremation utilises 400-500kg of wood and it is estimated that at least 32 million kilos of wood is consumed in the shamshan bhumis of the city. Delhi witnessed wood shortage in April-May period as demand grew sharply due to Covid related deaths. A 2016 study conducted by IIT Kanpur, which took a conservative amount of 216kg wood per funeral and assessed only 53 cremation sites, indicated that cremation sites are adding 4% of toxic carbon monoxide emissions into Delhi’s air. It concluded that over 2,129kg carbon monoxide, 33kg of sulphur dioxide, 346kg of PM10 and 312kg of PM2.5 dust particles were being emitted every day by cremations. While hearing a 2016 case, the National Green Tribunal had directed the Union environment ministry and the Delhi government to initiate programmes to provide alternative modes of cremation, saying the “traditional method of wooden pyres emitted hazardous pollutants into the environment”.Anshul Garg, director of Mokshda - a company that sets up metallic funeral pyre systems that consume less wood, feels that a midway can also be found in fulfilling the religious sentiments while also reducing the pollution load due to traditional cremations. Noting it is not easy to suddenly change the feelings and religious sentiments of people, he said CNG/electric cremations will remain low under normal circumstances. “We use ashtdhatu frames, which improve air circulation and maximise the heat utilisation. It leads to only 1/4th of wood being used in each cremation while the chimney captures most of the harmful pollutants,” he explained. Mokshda has installed 19 such units in Delhi-NCR at nine locations and 54 units across seven states, including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Kumar at Nigambodh argued that followers of certain religious sects, where gurus and spiritual leaders are pushing people to opt for eco-friendly cremations, are showing an inclination towards CNG/electric funerals.“Nirankaris for instance have shown preference for CNG units as it has been a part of the discourse. In 2016, when a key head of a sect passed away in a road accident, he was cremated using CNG pyre method.at Nigambodh Ghat. Spiritual leaders will have to convince people to opt for greener ways to remove the hesitation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-catalyses-growth-of-cng-crematoriums-but-delhi-falls-back-to-traditional-ways-101638123681666.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Business Blasters: Delhi govt starts TV programme for project pitches||To scale up its Business Blasters programme, the Delhi government on Sunday launched a television programme to allow school students to pitch their projects to investors.As part of the Business Blasters, a programme launched in September, students in classes 11 and 12 will be mentored and provided financial capital of ₹2,000 as seed money to help kickstart their business ideas. It is a part of the Entrepreneur Mindset Curriculum (EMC) for classes 11 and 12, designed to train students to work in teams, brainstorm and identify social challenges or business opportunities, prepare business plans and implement ideas in their neighbourhoods.Speaking at the launch of the television event, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the Business Blasters programme will provide a launchpad for students’ business ideas and encourage confidence and a problem-solving mindset, which will benefit India’s economy in the future.“It is encouraging to see children pitch some creative ideas which when scaled have the potential of bringing about tremendous social impact. This programme, for the students of classes 11 and 12, is going to form the basis of the country’s progress. Through this, children will not run after jobs, but jobs will come after these children,” said Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio.The first episode of the eight-part series that kicked off on Sunday saw three teams competing against each other. The three teams sought investment for their businesses of low-cost Bluetooth speakers, high-quality compost, and paintings.“We were given a seed amount of ₹2,000, and with our paintings, we managed to earn a profit of ₹30,000. The Business Blasters programme has taught us things we learn after college now. This includes how to communicate with people, customer management, the value of money and most importantly time management,” said Divyanshi, 16, a member of the team that sold paintings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/business-blasters-delhi-govt-starts-tv-programme-for-project-pitches-101638123503079.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Municipal bodies hunt for cash crunch fix ahead of next year’s polls||The poor financial health of Delhi’s three municipalities could be a serious handicap to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ambition to retain control of the civic bodies it has helmed for over 14 years, a concern highlighted by strikes by resident doctors in North Delhi civic hospitals over unpaid salaries.Also Read | AAP’s MCD poll campaign to kick off this week: Gopal RaiThe municipal corporations need a plan to resolve the severe cash crunch before the upcoming elections to the civic bodies, party leaders said.The corporations’ poor rankings in the recent Swachh Survekshan have compounded the BJP’s concerns. The South Delhi corporation ranked 31st, the North corporation 43rd, while the East body cropped up in the bottom four, ranking 45th.“While we have to deal with anti-incumbency, the bigger issue is the poor corporations’ financial position,” said Jai Prakash, a BJP leader and former mayor of the North corporation. “We are unable to pay salaries on time due to delay in payment from the state government. But it is difficult to explain it to our employees, who are also voters in Delhi. We have taken up the matter with the party.”The three civic bodies have been rocked by fresh protests by resident doctors and paramedical staff of the North Delhi corporation due to salary delays. This agitation on Saturday may snowball into a wider strike, after the Confederation of MCD Employees Unions, which comprises 22 municipal workers’ unions, threatened to stay away from work from December 13 if their issues were not solved by then.While the party has been targeting the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government for “paralysing the corporations by stalling the funds” and held several protests in this regard, the corporations themselves have done little to improve revenue.The three corporations recently initiated a process to finalise the budget for financial year 2022-23, in which South and East corporations have proposed a hike in property tax to tide over the financial crisis. None of the three corporations have proposed any major infrastructure projects due to the funds crunch. With municipal elections scheduled early next year, chances of BJP-led corporations passing the resolution are slim.Unifying the corporations could solve the problem, Prakash said. “If not the corporations, then the finance and planning departments should be unified to overcome the financial crisis. We proposed this earlier this year,” he said.The AAP, however, said corruption and financial mismanagement in the corporations was to blame for the financial crisis.Durgesh Pathak, in-charge of the party’s municipal affairs, said, “They are blaming the Delhi government to hide their inefficiencies. The problem is corruption and financial mismanagement. They are not able to streamline property tax collection due to which the collection is far less than what it should be. Ideally, the corporation should be getting over ₹2,000 crore as revenue from property tax, but they are able to collect around ₹600 crore.”But the bigger issue, Pathak said, is the BJP’s failure to improve sanitation in the city in the past 15 years. “The three civic bodies in the capital are not even in the top 10 or 20 of the Swachh Survekshan rankings. The issue of lack of sanitation directly impacts people, but the corporations have done little,” said Pathak.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that the corporations’ functioning will improve dramatically if the government releases the funds on time and clear the dues. “We are facing problems in giving salaries on time due to the delay in payment of funds by the government. It is a big issue and we are exploring other ways to address this issue. As for sanitation, the corporations have installed compactors to make the city dhalao-free. We are trying to manage everything in the limited funds we have,” said Gupta.He said that the corporations have done a lot of good work despite the fund crunch. “People, including our employees, understand this. While we will tell people about the work done by us despite shortage of funds, we will also tell them about the lack of work done by the government that has all the funds at its disposal,” he said.This is what the party is trying to achieve through its Jhuggi Samman Yatra, which started in mid-October. On November 29, BJP president JP Nadda will attend the last day of the 45-day-long campaign. “The slum clusters in the city don’t have basic facilities despite the government having all the funds. The corporations have still done a lot of work despite the fund crunch. This is what we are telling the people in our outreach campaigns,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-municipal-bodies-hunt-for-cash-crunch-fix-ahead-of-next-year-s-polls-101638123383835.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Previous UP govts robbed people of their rights: CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched projects worth ₹200 crore in Deoria on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion at Raghu Raj Singh Inter College there, the chief minister said while 35 medical colleges were established in UP in nearly last five year of the BJP rule, only 12 medical colleges could be set up in the state during 70 years after independence. Attacking opposition parties for criticising his government’s action against mafias, Yogi said that the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) were feeling bad after the houses of the Mafiosi were razed. “Mafias under the patronage of previous governments used to seize lands of the poor and raised money by extorting business men and traders. Should we not act against such mafias,” he asked to which the crowd repiled in the affirmative.“Earlier when Durga Puja came, riots would occur in Bhatpar Rani (the place where the CM’s event on held). When other festival came, riots would take place then too. In Deoria alone, three major riots took place during the SP government when weapons of police were looted from police stations. Back then, the government stood by rioters and not by victims. However, in the four-and-a-half-years of BJP government, not a single riot has taken place,” he said. “The earlier government was entangled in a Mahabharat with cheaters like ‘Chacha-Bhanja’ and ‘Bua’ and people were robbed of their rights,” Yogi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/previous-up-govts-robbed-people-of-their-rights-cm-yogi-101638123321588.html
28-11-2021||Noida||Increase in wind speed may improve air quality in Noida, Ghaziabad||Some respite is likely in store for Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, which have been reeling under ‘very poor’ air at least for the last five days till Sunday, as the forecast by Safar indicates that there might be a slight improvement in the air quality over the next two days (November 29 and 30) due to increase in wind speed. According to the air quality index bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida recorded AQI values of 353, 346 and 362, respectively, on Sunday. “Local surface winds are likely to increase moderately on 29th and 30th (November) that increases dispersion of pollutants leading to slight improvement but AQI remains in ‘very poor’ category. From December 1, wind speed and temperature are likely to decrease reducing ventilation and leading to slight deterioration of air quality. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” said the forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar). Experts, on the other hand, said there are chances of a western disturbance around December 5-6. “This could lead to snowfall in hilly regions and light rains may take place in Delhi-NCR. The rainfall may be moderate in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Due to this, there is likelihood of further drop in temperature, which may lead to foggy conditions after December 7,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. “The rainfall would prove beneficial as it is likely to bring down the pollution levels,” he added. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said they are implementing measures, such as road sweeping and water sprinkling, to control local sources of pollution. “Ghaziabad’s AQI levels have come down. However, our overall AQI has been affected for the past one week due to high pollution levels at Loni, where road construction is going on. We have asked the concerned agencies to take up corrective measures,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. In Noida, the air quality readings recorded at the Sector-62 monitoring station is adversely affecting the overall AQI. “Air pollution levels have spiked sharply at the Sector 62 monitoring station. We are trying to find the reasons for the high pollution levels but nothing has come to the fore till now. Since this station is of the Indian Meteorological Department, we have asked them to re-calibrate the sub-station in order to resolve the issue. All the local measures to curb pollution are already in place across the city,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/increase-in-wind-speed-may-improve-air-quality-in-noida-ghaziabad-101638122902270.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Anti-CAA speech: Allahabad HC grants bail to Sharjeel Imam in sedition case||The Allahabad high court on Saturday granted bail to activist Sharjeel Imam in a sedition case registered against him for his alleged inflammatory speech made on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on January 16 last year.Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh of the Allahabad high court granted him the bail. However, Nikhil Mishra, the counsel for the applicant, said a detailed order in this regard was awaited. Sharjeel was arrested on January 28, 2020, from Bihar’s Jehanabad district.The court has granted Sharjeel Imam the bail in a First Information Report (FIR) lodged against him with Civil Lines police station in Aligarh last year. The allegation against Sharjeel, who was a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) scholar when he made the speech, is that he indulged in spreading hatred towards the government of India and the Indian Armed Forces by creating enmity and hatred between the two communities and endangering the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the nation.However, as per sources, though the bail has been granted by the high court in one of the cases registered by the Uttar Pradesh police against Sharjeel Imam, he will remain in jail as he is also accused in a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with Northeast Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anticaa-speech-allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-sharjeel-imam-in-sedition-case-101638122842905.html
28-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Fresh tender floated to hire coaches for sports complex||The Greater Noida authority has revised the terms and conditions for hiring coaches and private agencies, which are interested in offering coaching services for different sports at the Shaheed Vijay Singh Pathik sports complex, and floated a fresh tender on November 26. Spread across 39 acres, the state-of-the-art sports facility was readied in 2015 but it could not be run by a professional agency. In 2015, the Greater Noida authority promised that the facility, which was constructed at an estimated cost of ₹130 crore, will be opened to the public in 2016. However, the authority has not been able to open the facility for public use till now. The Greater Noida authority will hire an agency or coach for sports, such as cricket, tennis, gym, basket ball, volleyball, skating, shooting, football and boxing. It is likely to appoint an agency to run and look after the maintenance of the swimming pool and four-walled court to be provided for playing squash. Interested coaches and agencies can apply till December 10 to participate in the bidding process. In July this year, the authority issued a tender to select the agency or coach but it did not get the desired response. It will open technical bids on December 13 to evaluate the eligibility criteria of agencies and coaches. “We have revised some terms and conditions and issued request for proposal to select an agency and coaches. Hopefully this time, the authority will be able to hire the agency and coaches,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of Greater Noida authority.According to the revised terms and conditions, an agency which wants to offer coaching services for a particular sport will have to show their balance sheet (financial statements) of the last five years, unlike the previous rule which mandated disclosing financial statements of three years. The condition has been relaxed because the Covid-19 pandemic, which was raging for most of last year as well as this year, has impacted the businesses of sports agencies, said officials. The authority has also removed the condition that a coach will have to look after the maintenance of a facility used for the particular sport for which he will be offering his services. With these relaxed conditions, the authority hopes to start offering coaching services in a month’s time. The authority has made available a contact number 0120-2336015, where an interested coach/agency can call and seek more information.The sports complex has a cricket ground with a seating capacity for 10,000 people, a swimming pool the size of the one used in Olympics, a shooting range, a football ground, a skating rink, a 12-lane bowling area as per the international standards along with other facilities such as a changing room for players, toilets, and a tennis stadium which can accommodate up to 2,200 spectators. There are four tennis courts, , squash courts, billiards table, two volley ball courts and two basketball courts among other sports facilities. The athletic arena has facilities for all events like 400 m athletic tracks, javelin, shot put, triple jump, long jump, high jump, hammer throw etc. There is also a practice track of 200m where athletes can hone their skills. The stadium has a jogging track of 2km with exercise station at specific distances. Besides, ample green cover has been provided by planting large trees as well as shrubs at strategic points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-fresh-tender-floated-to-hire-coaches-for-sports-complex-101638122602163.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj police arrest suspect, claim cracking murders of four of a family||Prayagraj police have arrested a suspect with strong circumstantial evidence against him indicating his involvement in the gruesome murders of four members of a family, including a woman who was also raped, at Mohanganj Gohri village earlier this week.The bodies of a 47-year-old man, his 45-year-old wife, their 25-year-old daughter and 10-year-old differently able son were found at their house in the village on Thursday (November 25) morning. In connection with the crime, an FIR was lodged against 11 people of whom 8 were arrested by police on November 26.The 23-year-old suspect Pawan Saroj used to stalk the woman and would send her messages on Whatsapp. “The victims and the suspect belong to same caste and prima facie it appears that one sided love affair was the reason behind the gruesome killings and rape with the woman,” police officials said at a press conference here on Sunday. However, the police officials maintained that the suspect was still to be questioned about his accomplices and the sequence of events.Addressing media persons, ADG zone Prem Prakash said scanning of murdered 25-year-old woman’s WhatsApp messages revealed that she was receiving messages from a number that was traced to be of one Pawan Kumar Saroj, a labourer. As per the police, the last message that Pawan sent to the woman on November 21 was “I Love You” in reply to which the woman sent “I Hate You”. After his arrest, Pawan tried to mislead the police but later confessed that he had been sending messages to the woman since September 18 with his love proposals which were continuously rejected by her.While the woman had deleted her chats, the messages sent by Pawan were found in his mobile. Circumstantial evidence indicates that Pawan committed the murder with the help of his accomplices as he was enraged over being rejected by the woman. The forensic team found blood spots on Pawan’s shirt.“Moreover, Pawan stopped sending messages to the woman after her family and she were murdered. Now the police will take Pawan’s remand of Pawan to question him about his other accomplices involved in the murders and will take his DNA sample to match it with vaginal swab of the raped woman and bite marks found on her body. Investigations also revealed that Pawan lived at some distance from the house of the victims and was a regular visitor to a nearby brick kiln”, ADG added.He also said the arrested accused, who were named in the FIR, had denied their involvement in the murders. “The named accused were locked in a dispute with the brother of the murdered person and his family and no evidence has been found which could establish their involvement in the murders. However, their DNA samples will also be taken for matching them with the vaginal swab preserved for detailed examination,” the ADG said.
28-11-2021||Noida||Better safety at ₹150: Greater Noida housing complex gets automatic boom barriers||The residents welfare association (RWA) of Greater Noida’s Sector 36 on Sunday installed two automatic boom barriers using radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags at two entry gates of the sector for safety purposes, said officials.This system works similar to the FASTag installed at different expressways and highways, which helps the residents in navigating without stopping at entry or exit gates if their vehicles bear a valid tag. FASTag is a device that employs RFID technology for making toll payments directly while the vehicle is in motion. FASTag (RFID Tag) is affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle and enables a customer to make the toll payments directly from the account which is linked to FASTag.Jeet Singh, president of Sector 36 RWA, said that there are nearly 1,750 houses in the residential complex. “People have been living in the housing complex for over 10 years. There are four entry gates and two of those are operational for the movement of the people. We found that there have been some instances where unwanted elements committed crimes and later escaped. So, the RWA has decided to install two automatic boom barriers at gate numbers 1 and 4 to keep a watch,” he said.Singh also said that residents will have to provide a copy of their identity card, like Aadhaar card or voter ID, for registering themselves for this facility. “A tag will be given to a resident for ₹150 after his/her details are fed in the system, which he/she will paste on the car’s windshield glass. Cameras installed near the gates will read the tag and the boom barrier will automatically lift when the tagged car reaches near the barrier,” he said.“The boom barrier will not open if an outsider, like a guest or a delivery boy, tries to enter the housing complex. Security guards will question them and verify their credentials before allowing them entry into the housing complex. This will surely improve the safety of the residents,” Singh said, adding that 11 security guards in the residential complex look after the security and safety of the residents 24X7.The inaugural event of the automatic boom barriers at the Sector 36 housing complex on Sunday was attended by Greater Noida additional deputy commissioner of police Vishal Pandey, and station house officer (SHO) of Sector Beta 2 police station Anil Kumar.Kumar said that some theft cases have been reported from the neighbouring residential complexes in the past few months. “The Sector 36 RWA has taken this initiative to improve the safety of the residents. If this works well, we will urge other housing complexes, too, to implement similar facilities,” he said, adding that records of visitors and camera footage will help in investigating any unwanted incident, if that happens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/better-safety-at-150-greater-noida-housing-complex-gets-automatic-boom-barriers-101638122303579.html
28-11-2021||Noida||Noida authority to honour residents, agencies for ‘innovative’ waste management||The Noida authority will honour individuals, housing complexes, institutions, schools, and colleges etc., for coming up with innovative ways in waste management in the city, said officials on Sunday. The authority has started a contest -- ‘Swachh Citizen Contest’ -- for the same.Interested individuals, resident welfare associations (RWAs), apartment owners’ associations (AOAs), schools, and colleges among others need to send their entries by December 7, 2021, to the authority’s health department to take part in the contest.Applicants can make a “two-minute jingle”, or a “movie depicting an innovative awareness message”, or a “wall painting”, or a “painting” on Swachhta or Swachh survey. They can also perform a street play on the subject and send it to the authority, said the officials.Winners in each category will be given ₹21,000 as the first prize, ₹15,000 as the second prize, and ₹11,000 as the third prize.“The objective of the event is to engage citizens in the waste management of the city and make it a better place to live in. We hope that the residents will cooperate with us, and we will work together and handle the waste management properly, according to the rules,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.The authority has also started a ‘Swachh innovative technology challenge’, under which, they have invited entries from residents, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), RWAs, AOAs, schools, colleges among other agencies who will share innovative ideas and methodologies of waste treatment in the city.Winners in each category will be given ₹21,000 as the first prize, ₹15,000 as the second prize, and ₹11,000 as the third prize, according to the officials.“In this challenge, participants can share innovative ideas and methodology of waste treatment in the city. For example, if a participant can convert waste into compost at his/her premises of the house, or can recycle waste through an innovative method, the person will share his/her ways and win a prize accordingly. We can also replicate the same way in other parts of the city for better handling of waste,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-honour-residents-agencies-for-innovative-waste-management-101638122301786.html
28-11-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar on alert after detection of new Covid-19 variant ‘Omicron’||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department is on alert after a new variant of coronavirus -- Omicron -- has been detected in several foreign countries, said officials on Sunday. The health department is keeping a tab on people returning to Noida and Greater Noida from abroad and conducting Covid-19 tests on them.At present, there are 16 active cases in the district, with three fresh cases and one discharge reported in the past 24 hours, till Saturday evening. Total 467 deaths have been reported, and 62,930 people have been cured in Gautam Budh Nagar since its outbreak in March 2020.Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Omicron variant -- which has a high infection rate -- is a matter of concern . “We held two video conference meetings on Saturday from the health department office in Lucknow. The district administration also held a meeting about the preparedness to tackle this new variant. Doctors and medical staff have been sensitised, and put on alert. We are awaiting a detailed guideline from Lucknow by Monday,” Sharma said.‘No cases of new variant in district/state yet, but a matter of concern’The Omicron variant, identified first in South Africa on November 24 (on Wednesday), and later detected in Europe and Asia, is raising concern among the people, given the number of about 30 mutations. The district health department said “no Covid-19 case of this variant has been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar or in Uttar Pradesh so far”.Sharma said that several Noida residents have recently returned from abroad trips. “Some foreign nationals have also visited Noida recently. The new variant may spread through these people... The health department will put such people on surveillance, and Covid tests will be conducted on them if they develop symptoms for the same. If a person tests Covid positive, the patient’s test for Omicron variant will also be performed,” he added.Alok Singh, a resident of Greater Noida’s Sector Alpha 1, said that the new Covid-19 variant is creating a psychological and emotional impact on the people. “Normalcy was returning in most of the places, and businesses were also almost resuming. However, these new variants have started creating an uncertain fear among the people... like what would happen if restrictions are imposed again,” Singh said.Dr NK Sharma, former president of India Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter, said that people should continue to maintain social distance, wash hands on regular intervals, and restrict their movement to prevent the spread of the virus. “People should not go to markets or public places unnecessarily. We can beat this problem only if we make suitable changes in our lifestyle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-on-alert-after-detection-of-new-covid-19-variant-omicron-101638122241663.html
28-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Residents protest to press demand for opening national highway 9||Hundreds of residents in Indirapuram staged a protest adjacent to national highway 9 on Sunday and demanded that the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway, which has been shut for about a year due to the farmers’ protest, be opened for movement of vehicles. Police said the protestors wanted to form a human chain opposite to the farmers’ protest site at the UP Gate but were not granted permission for the same. Residents of many high-rises gathered near Amrapali Village high-rise, about 2km from the farmers’ protest site, with placards that bore requests to farmers to clear up the carriageway and ease commuting for thousands of commuters. Police officers and personnel prevented the protestors from venturing anywhere near the farmers’ protest site. The carriageway and the UP Gate area have been occupied by farmers, who are camping here in tents since November 28 last year, to press their demand for the rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing on November 19 that the three farm laws will be repealed, farmers have refused to withdraw from the protest site. Farmer leaders have reiterated that the farm protests will continue till the government came out with a new law on MSP and fulfil their other demands that they have listed in an open letter written to the PM. “People are fed up with the developments. It seems that farmer protests will continue and it will again prolong opening of the road. Every authority in the country knows about the issues commuters face due to road closure but no one is doing anything,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of Federation of Association of Apartment Owners. “The police stopped us from moving near the farmers’ protest site but the day is not far when more citizens will try to move there given the problems they are facing due to road closure. We demand that the authorities open at least one lane between Ghaziabad and Delhi so that commuting becomes easy,” he added. “It has been a troublesome one year. Due to road closure, commuters are left with no choice but to start about 40-45 minutes early from their homes to reach their offices on time. Even students and those going to hospitals in Delhi face issues while commuting. For the past one year, commuters are having to bypass the UP Gate and forced to use the Hindon canal road, Kaushambi border or Noida’s Sector 62 area to reach Delhi,” said Deepak Kumar, president of Amrapali Village apartment owners’ association. “The issue is between the government and the farmers but common man is suffering due to no fault of theirs. No one is listening to the plight,” he added. Protesters also submitted a memorandum to the police and demanded immediate opening of the road. In the memorandum, residents said the highway is the lifeline for commuters and thousands of them from different localities such as Kaushambi, Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Raj Nagar Extension and Khoda among others, have been affected. According to official estimates, about 60,000 passenger car units ply on the UP Gate stretch per day. “The protesters submitted a memorandum, which will be forwarded to the respective authorities. We did not allow them to proceed near the UP Gate area as it may have caused law and order problems,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Farmer leaders said they have their sympathies for the residents who are facing so many issues while commuting. “The government is to blame for all the issues both farmers and the commuters are facing. Residents should forward their demand to the government. We also want speedy resolution of issues faced by farmers so that every farmer goes back home happily,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader and a spokesperson of Samyukta Kisan Morcha-- an umbrella body of different farmer unions--at the UP Gate site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-residents-protest-to-press-demand-for-opening-national-highway-9-101638122181748.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi says will do PhD on Mahabharata||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said he will learn Sanskrit and do a doctorate on the Mahabharata as he announced to set up a research centre on the Hindu texts Ramayana, Mahabharata and Bhagvad Gita.Addressing after laying the foundation stone of a Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthal here, he also compared SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal to Mahabharata’s Dhritarashtra, saying the "putra moh" (blind love) for his son has led to the "ruin" of his party.The CM said the research centre will showcase the message of the three Hindu texts.Since ages, these texts have been a source of inspiration for the entire humanity and the research centre will act as a catalyst for disseminating the message of these among the masses in the simplest form, he said.Channi said his government is trying to rope in a respected Shankracharya for this ambitious project.Striking an emotional chord with the Brahmin community, he said they have strong ties with him.Channi said he will learn Sanskrit language and then do a doctorate on the Mahabharata."I was told by a very wise and scholarly man to learn one shloka of the Bhagavad Gita every day to make my life meaningful and righteous. The Gita updesh is unparalleled. My present PhD will be completed in three months. Then I will start learning Sanskrit and do a PhD on the Mahabharata," he added.The chief minister further said to ensure proper care of stray cattle in the state, the Brahmin Welfare Board will be entrusted with this task.He said funds will be provided to the board for proper upkeep of the stray cattle.It is the need of hour to solve this one of the major social problems, he said.The CM also said his government will develop the "taposthal" of Bhagwan Parshuram as a state-of-the-art architectural marvel.A cheque for ₹10 crore has already been handed over to the district administration and more funds whenever needed will be sent accordingly, Channi added.Channi said ₹75 lakh will be spent on the development of a place related to Mata Renuka, the mother of Lord Parshuram.Evoking the example of the Mahabharata to make a scathing attack on the Akalis, the CM said the "Kauravas" were ruined due to "putra moh" of King Dhritarashtra.In the same manner, he said that Akalis are in shambles due to the "love" of Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal for his son.Channi said the Mahabharata is a treatise regarding statecraft and is still relevant today," adding the "poor situation" of the Akali Dal is an example of it.Slamming Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal for "little knowledge" about the state, Channi said the Delhi CM is "groping in the dark for fulfilling his lust for power".He said besides being an outsider, Kejriwal is a "rumour monger", who knows nothing about the state but pokes his nose into everything.He said such type of "cheap" politics will never be successful in the state.The chief minister said he was fortunate that the Congress leadership has bestowed him this service to serve the state.Paying tributes to Lord Parshuram, the chief minister exhorted people to imbibe the ideals propagated by him so that justice and equality is ensured in society.He said that Bhagwan Parshuram stood for protecting the basic tenets of religion, truth, universal love, compassion and righteousness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-says-will-do-phd-on-mahabharata-101638121821120.html
28-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Builder fined ₹25 lakh for violating construction ban norm||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Sunday imposed a penalty of ₹25 lakh on Mahira Developers for carrying out construction activities--in violation of the ban imposed by the Supreme Court and the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM)--at its project site in Gurugram’s Sector 103 on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. “During an inspection at night, a team from the pollution board found construction taking place at the site of Mahira Buildtech Pvt Ltd at Daultabad in Sector 103. Construction activities were immediately stopped and environmental compensation penalty of ₹25 lakh was imposed on the developer. Likewise, another violator was penalised for operating a diesel generator set on Railway Road,” said Kuldip Singh, regional officer (north), HSPCB. Rajesh Kumar, incharge of construction at Mahira Developers, said only those activities were being carried out at the project site that were permitted by the authorities. “There seems to be some confusion as we are adhering to norms. We will take up the matter with the pollution department,” he said. The state pollution board has been quick in issuing challans to large contractors and industry owners for violating pollution norms after the Supreme Court passed directions to take measures to curb pollution in the NCR districts. In the last two days, the board has issued challans on highway contractors and industry owners for not taking enough measures to control air pollution. Meanwhile, the air quality in the city continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ category for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday with Gurugram recording an AQI of 372. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The air monitoring station at Gwal Pahari recorded an AQI 370, Sector 51 recorded AQI 384, Teri Gram recorded AQI 384 AQI while Vikas Sadan recorded AQI 361. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 24.7 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 10.5°C. The IMD on Sunday said the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the upper end of ‘very poor’ category as mostly calm or slow winds during evening and night are unfavourable for effective dispersion of pollutants. “Winds are likely to be relatively strong from Monday and Tuesday, which will slightly improve air quality but will remain in the very poor category on both days,” said the IMD. Low wind speed and drop in temperatures kept pollutants trapped in the lower layers of the atmosphere and prevented effective dispersion of particulate matter. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said this is one of the worst phases of pollution in the city as mixing height is very low and all pollutants are stuck in the lower atmosphere. “Dispersion by local factors is very low as of now; strict Grap measures are required to reduce local emissions. School timings should be changed.. Senior citizens and those having respiratory complications should take extra precaution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-builder-fined-25-lakh-for-violating-construction-ban-norm-101638121761617.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Seven-day quarantine for South African passengers likely||Maharashtra is likely to announce seven-day institutional quarantine for all passengers flying from or transiting through South Africa. It is also likely to make a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for domestic travellers entering Maharashtra, according to senior state officials. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, in a review meeting with the district collectors and municipal commissioners, said they could go ahead with immediate imposition of quarantine rules without waiting for the Centre to announce new guidelines. Thackeray chaired the meeting from a Mumbai hospital where he is recuperating, following a spine surgery. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had sought 14-day institutional quarantine from passengers coming from geographies of concern in Africa. However, the state is expected to approve seven-day quarantine. Detailed guidelines are expected to be issued in a couple of days, officials said. “A large number of people from abroad have started coming to Mumbai and other places. Many of them land elsewhere in the country and travel by domestic airlines, roads and trains. If any of them are carriers of the virus, others may be at great risk, so it is imperative to investigate such passengers, to keep a tab on them,” Thackeray is quoted in a statement released by his office. During the meeting, Thackeray instructed officials to conduct tests of international and domestic passengers arriving at airports. “Necessary steps should be taken immediately by taking the required decisions without waiting for Centre’s instructions,” said Thackeray. State Covid Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that they are now in “vigilant” mode as the new variant – B.1.1.529 – is reportedly more infectious than Delta, a variant that was largely responsible for the deadly second wave of coronavirus infections in India earlier this year. Joshi, who attended the meeting on Sunday, said, “The Delta variant had two mutations, this has over 50. It is a super mutant, and it transmits rapidly. In 10 days, it replaced the dominant Delta strain in South Africa.” He added, “If you look at the mutation sites, it is likely to cause more severe disease. In the next four weeks, we will have data to understand how severe it is. India is concerned because this new variant can replace Delta. If a new strain comes into India now, we might get a new wave through this strain.” He added that the vaccination drive needs to be faster, and people who have not taken their second dose must not delay, if they have completed the mandatory 84-day period. Meanwhile, on Sunday, Maharashtra added 832 new cases (6,634,444 cumulative). The state also reported 33 deaths to take the toll to 140,941. Mumbai added 210 new infections (762,584 cumulative) and four fatalities (toll 16,330). The active cases in the state were 8,193, while Mumbai has 2192 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sevenday-quarantine-for-south-african-passengers-likely-101638121161675.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Special traffic chowkies at rail terminals to deal with unscrupulous auto, taxi drivers||Passengers arriving at Mumbai’s major railway terminals would now have recourse to a special traffic department of the Government Railway Police (GRP), which has been restarted after 12 years, to deal with unscrupulous autorickshaw and taxi drivers who refuse their fare or overcharge them.A circular issued by the Mumbai Government Railway Police commissioner on November 17 stated that each of the city’s five major terminals, where long distance trains halt, will have a chowkie (station) with a sanctioned strength of 12 officers and 10 constables to deal with passenger complaints against errant drivers. These chowkies will come up at Bandra, Kurla LTT, Mumbai Central, and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Dadar stations, where one officer of Assistant Police Inspector level and two constables will be present at all times. Drivers flouting rules would be penalised under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988. The headquarters for the traffic wing of the GRP will be stationed at Dadar station, between platforms 5 and 6 (Central line) where most long-distance trains halt.“At present we are conducting awareness drives to alert the drivers about the new department who would be keeping a check on them,” GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid said.For 55-year-old theatre actor Radheshyam Sharma, a resident of Vikhroli, who travels on express trains once a week, this was good news. “Every time I get off a train, I take a deep breath as I know there would be at least 20 rickshaw or taxi drivers who will refuse a fare to Vikhroli or demand four times the actual fare. Dragging my luggage across the parking lots and convincing an auto or taxi driver to drop me home takes me at least two hours,” Sharma said.Mulund resident Madhu Kotian recalled a similar experience after he returned with his family from a vacation in Goa. After they got off at Bandra, they took an auto home. However, the driver overcharged them for the ride, the 64-year-old said. “Unaware I am a Mumbai resident, the auto driver took me through longer routes and was roaming in circles around Bandra East just to extract more money from me. I didn’t say a word and let him drive. When I reached Mulund after more than two hours, he asked me to pay ₹500,” said Kotian.“The mafia of these drivers is so strong outside the Terminals that that they don’t even allow Ola or Uber cabs to enter the premises blocking their way by parking haphazardly especially at odd hours when local trains are shut,” said Shashi Parekar, a Vasai resident. The 61-year-old said that he has given in to the demands of drivers who have asked for twice the money to take him home. “Many times, I have paid according to the taxi driver’s demand as I had no choice but to reach Vasai safely,” he said.There are at least 50 to 60 taxis parked outside the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at any given point of time. At Mumbai Central — where more than 30 outstation trains are either entering or leaving the station in a day — hundreds of passengers disembark from each train. At Dadar, over 31 trains bring more than 50,000 commuters every day [CONFIRM] to the station. At least 52 trains halt at Kurla Lokmanya Tilak terminus where more than 150,000 passengers alight and board the trains daily. Commuters across all these terminals said that they are often refused a ride because drivers prefer to take passengers who travel to the outskirts. Many commuters complained that “a mafia” overcharged passengers, asking for fare that was several times higher than what the metres permitted.At Bandra terminus, where more than 40 express trains halt in a day, the footfall is 50,000 passengers daily.“Just like the system at the airport, we are now organising travel for commuters who have already travelled long distances and just want to reach their home without hassle,” said Police Inspector Suresh Bhale, in charge of the traffic division of the GRP.“Drunk drivers will be presented before the court if we get any complaints from passengers,” Bhale said. Rash and negligent drivers would also be penalised with fines varying from ₹200 to ₹2000.When contacted AL Quadros, leader of Taxi Union said that the drivers are following the rules but it becomes difficult to follow the five minute rule (taxi or auto drivers can stop inside the premises to drop a passenger onky for five minutes) as the passengers have heavy luggage or even struggle for change at times. “We will surely oppose if the GRP traffic too flows this rule,” said Quadros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-traffic-chowkies-at-rail-terminals-to-deal-with-unscrupulous-auto-taxi-drivers-101638120261510.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||DRI seizes iPhone 13 worth ₹43 crore at Mumbai airport||Mumbai: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 3,646 iPhone 13 models worth ₹42.86 crore at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. The items arrived from Hong Kong declaring the goods as memory cards to smuggle them in India.According to the press release issued by the agency, “The consignments had come from Hong Kong at the air cargo complex at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai. The sender declared the goods as ‘memory cards’ in the import documents but during a physical examination, it was revealed the actual consignment contained iPhones.”The iPhone 13 models went for sale in India from September 2021 onwards, with a base price of ₹70,000 and some of the higher-end models costing up to ₹1,80,000. Import of mobile phones into India attracts effective Customs Duty of around 44%, said a DRI official. The detection of attempted smuggling of these high-end phones of the latest models in such large numbers shows how quickly the smugglers establish their smuggling networks for the latest products, like iPhone 13. This detection has helped unearth a serious import fraud, reinforcing DRI’s ability to detect and combat unique and sophisticated methods of smuggling, having substantial revenue implications, mentioned in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dri-seizes-iphone-13-worth-43-crore-at-mumbai-airport-101638119601540.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Bring law that guarantees MSP, says Tikait; warns of protest on Republic Day||Farmers’ leader, who represents Bharat Kisan Union, Rakesh Tikait on Sunday warned of a major protest on Republic Day if the Central government does not hold talks with them and bring a law that will guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for the farm produce. Slamming the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, he said the farmers will not go back to their homes until they will speak to them. Tikait was talking to reporters in Mumbai during a ‘mahapanchayat’ held by the farmers outfits to celebrate the historic victory of the year-long farmers’ struggle against contentious three farm laws and to declare the determination to fight for the remaining demands that include MSP, financial compensation to the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation and withdrawal of criminal cases against the protestors among others. According to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of over 40 farmers’ outfits, that is leading the agitation, around 750 farmers died while protesting against the farm laws in the past one year. “The farmers will not tolerate this bullying anymore. We have tolerated enough. Bring the MSP guarantee law, otherwise, January 26 is not too far and four lakh tractors and farmers are all present,” Tikait told reporters. “We need to be careful from this (BJP-led) government. They are yet to start discussion with us. This government is backstabber, conspiratorial, dishonest and is still trying to humiliate the farm community and end our agitation… Farmers will not be returning back to their homes until the government will talk to us. Repealing the three laws does not mean that our problems have to come to an end. There are many issues farmers are facing and one of them is MSP,” he said, while addressing the ‘mahapanchayat’ at Azad Maidan in Mumbai. After concluding the mahapanchayat, farmers’ leaders immersed the ashes of the farmers who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, in the Arabian Sea. The ashes were taken to most of the districts of the state to remind the agrarian community about the treatment given to them by the Central government. Four cultivators were mowed down by a SUV during a protest that triggered the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers have claimed Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, Union minister of state for home, was driving the vehicle that killed the farmers. Mishra was arrested as a prime accused in the case. Targeting the Prime Minister, Tikait said, “They don’t want to give us MSP because they want to loot the farmers and fill the godowns of the industrialists,” he alleged. He also said PM Modi was a supporter of the MSP when he was the chief minister of Gujarat and wanted a nationwide law to ensure that MSP is guaranteed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bring-law-that-guarantees-msp-says-tikait-warns-of-protest-on-republic-day-101638118521445.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Three Europeans test Covid positive in Vrindavan||Three Europeans have tested positive for Covid-19 in the pilgrim town Vrindavan since Friday, a health official said on Sunday.A woman from Lithuania was the first to be found infected with Covid-19 there. Two Spain and Switzerland nationals have also tested positive now.All three had reached India on or around November 15 and were at the same Vrindavan ashram, which has now been declared a containment zone. Their samples are being sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing, the official said, adding that samples of 44 others who were in contact with them at ashram are being tested.“Earlier, a woman from the Republic of Lithuania, aged about 30 years, had tested positive for Covid-19. She arrived in India on November 15 for travel purposes and was staying at Girdhar Dham, Sheetal Chayya Mandir in Vrindavan. She tested positive on Friday. Samples of those coming in her contact, mainly foreigners, at the ashram were subjected to testing,” said Dr Bhoodev, the deputy chief medical officer (deputy CMO) at Mathura. Vrindavan is in Mathura district of western Uttar Pradesh.“A woman from Spain, aged 47 years, and a man from Switzerland, aged 44 years, also tested positive at the same ashram. They were also in India since the last fortnight,” the deputy CMO said.“Today, it was revealed that the man from Switzerland, who tested positive for Covid-19, has already moved away from the ashram and is being traced,” he stated. “Samples of 44 others from the ashram are being taken and sent for testing as they are feared to have come in contact with those testing positive. Samples of these three foreigners are being sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing to ascertain the variant,” Dr Bhoodev further said.Vrindavan, about 150 kilometres from Delhi, is among the favourite destinations for Krishna devotees from abroad as it is dotted with a series of Krishna temples and ashrams. The health department has made arrangements for sample testing of these devotees arriving from overseas.On November 20, a footwear manufacturer from Agra tested positive for Covid after returning from Poland. But 50 others at his shoe factory tested negative. The samples of the footwear manufacturer have been sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing and the reports are awaited, said Agra chief medical officer Dr AK Srivastava.The first Covid positive case in Uttar Pradesh had been reported from Agra on March 2, 2020. That patient had returned from Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-europeans-test-covid-positive-in-vrindavan-101638118461435.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Children were playing near Channi's helicopter. Punjab CM gave them a ride||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday gave a helicopter ride to children during his visit to Morinda. Sharing the pictures of his visit, Channi said children playing near his helicopter made him reminisce of his childhood days when he, too, used to see planes wishing that he would one day get a chance to sit in it.“During my visit to Morinda, saw children playing near the helicopter. When I was young, I used to see planes & think that one day I too would get a chance to sit in it. Reminiscing about the same, I made a few village children fly with me in helicopter & fulfilled their dream,” Channi tweeted.The Congress leader posted three pictures of his Morinda visit, one of them showing the chopper in the air with children aboard. After interacting with the children, Channi said, he felt there was no dearth of talent in Punjab but added that they need proper guidance. He promised he will do his best to create a bright future for all the children of Punjab.“While interacting with them, I felt that there was no dearth of talent in Punjab, but there is a need to give proper guidance to these children. I promise all the children of Punjab that I will do my best to create a bright future for them,” he posted.While interacting with them, I felt that there was no dearth of talent in Punjab, but there is a need to give proper guidance to these children. I promise all the children of Punjab that I will do my best to create a bright future for them. pic.twitter.com/gGyN3XRcOLChanni has stepped up the attack on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls. Addressing a public rally in Barnala Saturday, he asked people to wipe out both parties in the elections and to identify "dubious politicians who are hell bent upon to exploit them emotionally to the hilt."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/children-were-playing-near-channi-s-helicopter-punjab-cm-gave-them-a-ride-101638117459001.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to set up research centre on Hindu epics, says CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced to set up an exclusive state-of-the-art research centre on the epics of Ramayana, Mahabharata and Bhagavad Gita. Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone of state-of-the-art Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthal in Phagwara, the CM said the upcoming centre will showcase the message of the three epics. He said since ages these epics have been source of life and inspiration for the humanity and this research centre will act as a catalyst for disseminating their message among the masses. “The state government is trying to rope in Shankaracharya ji for this ambitious project. We will develop the Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthan as an architectural marvel. A cheque of ₹10 crore has already been handed over the district administration and more funds will be sent,” he added. Tthe Brahmin Welfare Board will be entrusted with ensuring proper care of the stray cattle in the state, the CM said.Citing the example of Mahabharata while taking a jibe at the Akalis, Channi said that the Kauravas were ruined due to king Dhritrashtra’s putra moh (love for son). “Similarly, the Akali Dal is in a mess due to the love of party stalwart Parkash Singh Badal for his son. The Mahabharata is a treatise on statecraft and is still relevant today. The state of affairs in the Akali Dal is an example of it,” he claimed. Terming Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal as a rumour-monger, Channi said his Delhi counterpart knew nothing about Punjab but kept poking his nose into everything. Channi announced a budgetary provision worth ₹2 crore for Bhagwan Parshuram Chair at Punjabi University, Patiala. Cabinet minister Rana Gurjit Singh said that CM Channi represents the secular ideology of Congress. “He has taken path-breaking initiatives for the well-being of all communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-to-set-up-research-centre-on-hindu-epics-says-cmchanni-101638117801583.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Pune: CNG pumps shut due to repair work on pipeline sees auto drivers stuck in long queues||PUNE The sudden closure of CNG pumps in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad on Saturday caused trouble to auto rickshaw drivers and other CNG vehicle owners. The sudden closure was caused due to the repair work of the gas pipeline providing CNG to Pune by the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL). The pumps were reopened on Sunday morning and auto rickshaw drivers were seen making a beeline at the CNG station. “On Saturday morning I went to the CNG pump at Katraj but it was closed. I had to shut my business as no notice was provided beforehand. Now today, I had to wait for more than an hour in the queue to fill the CNG gas due to the rush,” said Mahesh Raut an auto driver. There are around 90 CNG pumps in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, of which 50 were closed due to the repair and cleaning work of the pipelines. “The pressure of the CNG supply to the pumps was reduced, due to which most of the CNG pumps remained closed on Saturday. But now all the CNG pumps have resumed back normally. As such an incident has happened for the first time in Pune, many auto and car drivers had to face inconvenience and we will take care of it in future,” said Rajesh Pande, MNGL independent director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-cng-pumps-shut-due-to-repair-work-on-pipeline-sees-auto-drivers-stuck-in-long-queues-101638117141545.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Portion of 400-year-old church to make way for road-widening project||The portion of 400-year-old St. Anthony’s Church, popularly known as Malvani Church among the locals is set to make way for a road widening project of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The church serves more than 15,000 parishioners. Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant municipal commissioner said that a total of 22 structures are being affected for this project, of which two structures are within the premises of this church. “Structures within the premises of the church that have been given a heritage tag, will not be touched. Only the compound wall will be taken down and the portion of the bungalow, in which, the priest resides will be affected,” Dagadkhair said. According to Father Angelo Fernandez, the church and the administrative building within its premises have been identified as a Grade-2 heritage structure by the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC). He said some portions of the church were rebuilt in 1872 and the origin of the church is more than 400 years old. In order to widen the one kilometre stretch of the existing Marve Road, the P/North (P/N) office of the BMC had issued a notice to the church authorities earlier this year. Earlier this week, representatives of the church held a meeting with the BMC officials and gave their consent to the project. However, the locals have opposed the project. According to the officials the existing width of the road is around 40 feet and the BMC intends to widen it to 60 feet. Dagadkhair said that in return, the BMC will be providing the church financial compensation, based on the present day ready-reckoner rates. “This issue has been delayed for more than 40 years now. Due to this, various development works are getting delayed. The road needs to be widened at the earliest because there is traffic congestion regularly,” Dagadkhair. Meanwhile, Father Fernandez said that the church has given up the land in the larger interest of the people. “We have given 20 feet of our premises to the BMC and have also compromised on the rate that we are getting. We have given them a go-ahead in the larger interest of the people,” he said. He also said that during festivals and mass offerings, the area gets so crowded that devotees often pray from outside the church. “In future, our parishioners will face sheer inconvenience as the proposed road will pass adjoining the main church building and there will be no space for them to stand outside the church,” said the father. He also claimed that the church is a heritage precinct and that the civic body needs to take special permission from the MHCC before starting work. A senior official from the BMC heritage department said that special permission will not be necessary as the project involves the compound wall and it doesn’t directly affect the heritage structures present over there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/portion-of-400-year-old-church-to-make-way-for-road-widening-project-101638115281277.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC to trace travellers who arrived from ‘countries of concern’ in last 2 weeks||Mumbai Concerned about the outbreak of the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to trace travellers who arrived in Mumbai from ‘countries of concern’ in the last two weeks. The BMC has said that they have sourced such data from authorities at Mumbai airport and are now starting to trace such passengers and test them for the new variant.The BMC had issued an advisory requesting citizens to take more precautions on Saturday. The BMC said that all international passengers arriving at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) from ‘countries of concern’ including countries from Africa, would be made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, and if found positive, would be sent to an institutional quarantine centre.The BMC had also said that the travel history of all international passengers would be verified through their passports on arrival. However, in all this, the BMC officials have said that tracing and testing those passengers who have already arrived in the city also becomes crucial.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have collected information regarding tracing passengers who have arrived from countries of concern in the past two weeks from the airport and are segregating it district-wise. We are going to test such passengers and ask them to follow home quarantine regulations.”However, if any of the passengers who have arrived from the countries of concern tests positive, they will be subjected to institutional quarantine and their samples will be sent for genome sequencing. According to BMC, countries of concern include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique apart from some Middle Eastern and European countries.However, experts have said that citizens do not need to panic but continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiologist at Nair Hospital, said, “We do not need to panic for now but continue following Covid-appropriate behaviour irrespective of the spread. Whether Omicron will have any Impact in India or not, but one good thing that is going to happen is that the public will be more cautious.”Dr Sathe added, “South African Medical Association has stated that the Omicron variant of Covid-19 causes mild infection with two to three days of muscle pain, tiredness and mild cough. These cases were seen more in unvaccinated people, and there has not been any rise in hospitalised patients. Hence, we do not need to panic but remain vigilant.”Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra State Covid-19 task force, took to Twitter and said, “Nothing to worry about. Just be alert vigilant and follow all guidelines.”Meanwhile, on Sunday, 210 cases were reported in the city followed by four deaths taking the tally to 762,584 and toll to 16,330. The city’s recovery rate is 97% and there are 741,515 recoveries in the city. The mortality rate in the city is 2.14% and there are 2,192 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-trace-travellers-who-arrived-from-countries-of-concern-in-last-2-weeks-101638114321349.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Op Bluestar ₹1,000 crore damage suit: Fearing backlash, SGPC changes tack on out-of-court settlement with Centre||Apprehending a strong reaction from the Sikh community, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has decided not to go for an out-of-court settlement with the central government in the case of ₹1,000-crore damage suit related to Operation Bluestar.The SGPC has instead decided to resume the legal battle in the lawsuit that was filed in the Delhi high court in March 1985 during the tenure of then gurdwara body president Gurcharan Singh Tohra. On the court’s order, both sides — the Centre and SGPC — were ready to resolve the dispute out of court in 2019, even as no meeting has been held in this regard so far. The decision to comply with the court was taken during the tenure of then chief Gobind Singh Longowal.The current office-bearers were also thinking to take forward the decision, but some Sikh sections disapproved of the move after the matter became public through media reports. “A sub-committee constituted to work on the legal aspects of the case has not submitted its report yet. We told them (committee) that we are going to contest the case,” said SGPC president Jagir Kaur while speaking to HT.The SGPC represents the community and is answerable to it, she said, adding, “We will not strike any compromise till the central government is put in the dock and is held guilty by the judiciary.” The sub-committee has also been asked to prepare a list of valuable items allegedly taken away by the army from the Sikh Reference Library and other places in the Golden Temple complex.The military action carried out in June 1984 to flush Sikh militants out from the Golden Temple had damaged the buildings of the Akal Takht and Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the SGPC headquarters, besides the main shrine complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/op-bluestar-rs-1-000-crore-damage-suit-fearing-backlash-sgpc-changes-tack-on-out-of-court-settlement-with-centre-101638114201160.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||UPTET: Opposition hits out at state government over paper leak||The Opposition parties on Sunday hit out at the state government after the UPTET-2021 was cancelled due to a question paper leak.Taking a jibe at the state government, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said, “Cancellation of UPTET 2021 exam paper due to leak is playing with the future of 20 lakh unemployed candidates. Paper leaks, cancellation of examination and results are common in the BJP regime. UP is at the peak of corruption in education sector. There will be a change for unemployed youth in 2022.”In a tweet, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said the cancellation of UPTET for the recruitment of teachers in Uttar Pradesh is a very serious matter.“The UP government should take this latest incident very seriously and get a high level inquiry done at the earliest and ensure strict legal punishment to the culprits. The government should ensure a solid system to conduct this examination as soon as possible,” Mayawati added.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “Due to UPTET question paper leak, the hard work of lakhs of candidates got ruined. Every time the question paper got out, Yogi Adityanath’s government saved the big fish involved in corruption.”Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary, in a tweet, said, “This is a stupid joke with lakhs of hardworking students. The youth of Uttar Pradesh is fed up with paper leak.”Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad tweeted, “Around 21 lakh candidates had reached hundreds of kilometres away in cold to take the exam. Who will take responsibility for the inconvenience caused to candidates? First, there aren’t enough vacancies and if it all there are any, then question paper gets leaked. First the paper of inspector recruitment was leaked and now that of UPTET.”He also said, “It is our demand that whenever the exam is held the next time, the state government should provide adequate bus facilities so that candidates may reach exam centre without much inconvenience. The government should also make arrangements for their accommodation and food.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-opposition-hits-out-at-state-government-over-paper-leak-101638114081186.html
28-11-2021||Patna||No respite from ‘very poor’ air quality in Patna, Muzaffarpur||The overall air pollution levels in Patna and Muzaffarpur remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday while some observatories ringed alarm as they crossed 350-mark inching closer to the ‘severe’ air quality.Residents are unlikely to get any respite from deteriorating air quality due to a dip in temperature and wedding season, said pollution experts.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), an overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna based on five air monitoring stations stood at 342, which was categorised under ‘very poor’.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as ‘good’, 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 as ‘moderate’, 201-300 as ‘poor’, 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 401 as ‘severe’.In Patna, AQI at three air-monitoring stations inched closer to the ‘severe’ category. Observatories near IGSC Planetarium Complex registered AQI at 394, Samanpura 391, Rajbansi Nagar 386 followed by Danapur 340. Shikarpur-based apparatus recorded ‘moderate’ air quality with an index value of 200.Besides, Hajipur and Muzaffarpur also recorded ‘very poor’ air quality with an index value of 326 and 313 respectively. Gaya recorded ‘poor’ air quality with an index value of 290.Meanwhile, Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) claimed that a series of steps were being taken to improve the air quality in the state, however, results will be visible in coming years.BSPCB’s chairman Ashok Ghosh said that apart from geographical location and decline in temperature, wedding season was also responsible for the spike in pollution levels.“Wedding season is at peak this year as a large number of weddings, which were postponed last year, are taking place this month involving heavy vehicular rush and firecracker bursting. They are also responsible to some extent behind the hike in air pollution levels”, he said. “Mass awareness is going on to encourage people to opt for environment-friendly steps such as switching to CNG vehicles, covering construction sites with green sheets and not burning garbage in open areas. The board has a provision to impose a fine of up to ₹25,000 on burning garbage in open areas. We have yet not penalised any individual as awareness programme is going on but soon, we would start penalising the violators for the offence”, he added.Meanwhile, Ankita Jyoti, senior programme officer at CEED, said, “We need to increase the frequency of measures such as water sprinkling in hotspot zones to reduce air pollution level. The state government has already prepared an emergency action plan for tackling air pollution but strict enforcement is needed to bring effective results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-respite-from-very-poor-air-quality-in-patna-muzaffarpur-101638113721162.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Actress tries to buy liquor bottle online, gets duped of ₹3 lakh||Shivaji Park police on Sunday booked unknown persons for duping a 73-year-old actress of ₹3 lakh. According to police, the actress was duped while placing an online order for a bottle of liquor from a wine shop. The complainant, a resident of the Dadar area, on November 19, found two numbers while searching on the internet and ordered a bottle of alcohol, for which she made a payment of ₹4,800 through an e-wallet platform. When she did not get the delivery, she called on the mobile number again to check on the status of the delivery. The person who received the call asked the complainant to register online for a refund. She was then asked to share the OTP. The accused then made several transactions. On receiving several messages about the amount debited from her accounts, she realised she was duped. She tried to contact the same number again, but it was switched off. She approached Shivaji Park police station and gave a written complaint. The police have registered a first information report for cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act, against an unknown person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/actress-tries-to-buy-liquor-bottle-online-gets-duped-of-3-lakh-101638113661181.html
28-11-2021||Patna||Bihar govt directs officials to conduct genome study, increase vaccination to tackle new Covid variant||In wake of the emergence of the new Covid-19 variant ‘Omnicron’, the Bihar government on Sunday directed health officials to conduct genome surveillance of all Covid positive samples to ascertain the strain of the virus.Chief minister Nitish Kumar during a review meeting of the health department on Sunday directed officials to be alert and ensure that there is adequate stocks of medicines and health facilities at the hospitals. The chief minister also stressed that people who have returned from abroad should be monitored and those who have tested positive should be screened for the new variant. Kumar who also reviewed the ongoing vaccination programme against Covid-19 laid stress on accelerating the vaccination drive and directed officials to use all modes of publicity to encourage people who have taken the 1st dose to inoculate themselves with the 2nd dose as well. “There should be state level monitoring of those districts where the vaccination drive and testing is slow. There should not be any laxity on testing and vaccination drive should be widely publicised ,” the CM said. Till Sunday, Bihar has inoculated 80 million citizens, according to officials.During the meeting, Bihar representative of World Health Organisation ( WHO) Dr Subramaniyam apprised the CM about the new Covid variant ‘Omicron’ and its various aspects. Additional chief secretary (health) Prataya Amrit said the health department is on high alert to tackle the new variant. Health minister Mangal Pandey, while talking to mediapersons on Sunday, said, “Though there has been no positive cases of the new variant in the country so far, the health department is on high alert and directives have been issued to health officials to maintain tight vigil while conducting RT-PCR tests to detect any strain of the new variant so that immediate steps can be taken”. Asked about the central government’s directives to conduct tests of around 281 persons who have arrived from foreign countries in last two months in Bihar, the health minister said the health officials have started visiting residences of the persons mentioned in the list. “ Health officials have started visiting the persons mentioned in the list who have returned from abroad. There are instances where people have their address in Bihar but live in different parts of the country. So, we will tests of all those people staying in Bihar ,” the minister said, who also attended the review meeting of health department along with the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-directs-officials-to-conduct-genome-study-increase-vaccination-to-tackle-new-covid-variant-101638113541179.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||55 senior citizens, along with 7 staff of old age home test positive for Covid-19||Thane: On Saturday, 55 senior citizens along with 7 staff members of ‘Matoshree’ old age home in Khadavli, Bhiwandi Taluka, Thane district tested positive for Covid-19.The infected were immediately sent to the Thane civic hospital for treatment after the diagnosis and according to the old age home, the infected senior citizens were fully-vaccinated.Following the incident, the area was declared a containment zone and the primary health centre carried out a detailed survey on the same.Shedding light on how the cases were detected, Ashok Patil, medical in charge and manager of the old age home informed, “Due to the changes in weather, a few of the inmates were suffering from cold. We initiated the treatment for around 7-8 senior citizens, who recovered. However, one of them was suffering from constant fever. It raised an alarm and we decided to get him tested for Covid-19 and the results came positive.”Without any further delay, the tests were carried out for all the residents. “We do have all the facilities here but we decided to shift them to Thane civic hospital on Saturday night. On Sunday, the hospital staff said that there were no major health concerns for the patients,” added Patil.Ajay Jadhav, district information officer, Thane informed, “One RT-PCR test and 61 antigen tests reported as positive and, five others are suspected to be infected. All preventive measures have been undertaken in the zone by the health department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/55-senior-citizens-along-with-7-staff-of-old-age-home-test-positive-for-covid19-101638113240984.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||High court stays demolition of shops for GMLR||The Bombay high court (HC) last week restrained the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from demolishing shops at Dindoshi for the ₹6000 crore Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR) project after it was informed that the compensation that BMC offered was not adequate as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The petitioners had approached the HC after the BMC reportedly offered them a fourth of the compensation they deserved after they refused the BMC’s offer to rehabilitate them at Charkop. A division bench of Justices AA Sayed and SG Dige, while hearing the petitions of 15 of the 50 affected shopkeepers, was informed by senior advocate JP Sen along with Advocates Irani and Co that BMC had started demolishing a large number of structures bordering Gen AK Vaidya Marg in Goregaon East without following proper procedure or giving adequate compensation. The petitioners also sought directions to the BMC to follow proper procedure before undertaking any demolition work. The GMLR, aimed at connecting the arterial Western and Eastern Express Highways with two flyovers and two 4.75-km-long tunnels to be constructed 20 meters below the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), is expected to cost ₹6000 crore. BMC had begun demolishing structures in an attempt to start work on the flyovers by the end of 2021 and on the tunnels by mid-2022. BMC has been demolishing structures bordering Gen AK Vaidya Marg for widening the road to 150 feet as per the GMLR’s sanctioned plan. Sen, who appeared for 11 shopkeepers (the remaining four were represented by another lawyer who used the same submissions as Sen), informed the bench that though the GMLR was sanctioned in 1973, work on it began only recently, and that shops and other business establishments had come up there as the BMC had not acquired the land till then. He admitted that illegal structures had come up in that period; however, the legal structures of the petitioners and others were also targeted in BMC’s demolition drive. As they feared they will not get proper compensation for their properties, they had approached the HC. According to the shopkeepers, BMC’s compensation of ₹35-38 lakh is only a fourth of the market value. They said they refuse to accept it. BMC’s lawyer Narendra Walawalkar informed the bench that the petitioners had been offered rehabilitation at Charkop, but they had refused to accept it. It was then that the civic authority offered them compensation. As the matter was sub-judice, the civic authority said it was willing to give an undertaking that the petitioners’ properties will not be demolished till the petition is decided. The court accepted the undertaking, and directed the BMC to ensure that the grievances of the petitioners were resolved amicably. However, on November 24, the bench was informed by the petitioners that, with the exception of their shops, the BMC had demolished, without notice, 35 legal shops. Hence the aggrieved shop owners also wished to be heard. The bench was told that BMC’s lawyer Walawalkar was indisposed and could not be present. The bench, therefore, adjourned the hearing to December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-stays-demolition-of-shops-for-gmlr-101638111681099.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Section of MSRTC staff still on strike; say it’s only way to see demands met||PUNE: Even as most state transport employees have returned to duty, a large section is still refusing to resume work demanding the merger of the Maharashtra State Regional Transport Corporation (MSRTC) with the state government – a demand that has been refused by those in power.Instead, the government last week announced an unprecedented 41% hike for workers, to placate the agitating employees. However, the staff is firm on their original demand and has not accepted the government announcement. A large section of the agitating employees backed by prominent lawyer, Gunratan Sadavarte, still believe that this is their best chance to get demands accepted by the government even as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, who were earlier backing the protest, have now withdrawn from it.Sadavarte, who is fighting the legal battle in the high court for the protesting employees, said, “I am very positive that the state government will soon listen to our demand. After a long time, the entire nation and even the state of Maharashtra has seen the unity of workers without any union or flag. We believe in the state, we are not radicals, and the state has to follow constitutional principles in letter and spirit. More than 40 workers committed suicide. This time, the state government should think twice.”Sunday marked the 22nd day of the strike as services at many depots were operational only partially while no buses were seen plying along some routes in the state. With a fleet of 18,500 buses and 96,000 employees, the MSRTC has been a favoured and trustworthy mode of transport for many in Maharashtra even as the corporation has suffered losses year after year. The most crucial part of the current agitation has been that the striking workers have refused to be part of any union as all unions are affiliated to some or the other political party.Sanjay Mundhe, a driver from Swargate depot, who has been suspended, said, “It’s been hard to survive so long without any union or organisation support in the strike, but now every common worker of the organisation has realised the importance of this strike and most of us have decided to fight till the end. We are firm about taking the strike forward till our major demand of merging with the state government is fulfilled.”When asked about the salary hike offer made by the state transport minister, Mundhe said, “This has already happened once with us a few years back. For the time being, the government gives a hike in salary but after the protests die down, it is revoked or adjusted without making much difference to the original payout. So we do not believe in any of their words and all the workers across the state are firm on continuing the strike.”Covid-19 pushed an already loss-ridden state transport body over the edge with MSRTC forced to raise funds. As the corporation delayed staff salaries during Covid-19 after buses were pulled off roads due to lockdowns and restrictions, some workers were forced to take extreme steps. According to the agitating MSRTC staff, around 40 of their workers committed suicide due to the Covid-induced financial crisis. Many believe that if the corporation is absorbed into the government, such a situation will not arise in future.Even after the high court (HC) intervened in the issue and called the strike “illegal”, instructing workers to resume duty, a large number of workers across the state are still reluctant to resume work. The workers believe that they are left with no option but to continue with the strike considering the financial uncertainty the corporation has been facing. They also know the government’s limitation in not being able to recruit drivers quickly without imparting proper training.Till now, the organisation has suspended over 7,800 workers from across divisions. While the MSRTC management has claimed that around 18,000 protesting workers have resumed work, most of them are from the clerical, administrative and workshop departments. The majority of drivers and conductors - who are the backbone of the ST bus service - have still not resumed work. On the other hand, the government has repeatedly made it clear that a committee appointed on the direction of the HC is looking into the demand for a merger. During an interaction with reporters last week, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said, “I read the statement of transport minister Anil Parab that the state government will consider the recommendations of the committee seriously, so the issue of the merger is currently pending before the HC committee and I do not want to speak on that issue.” Pawar said that if the demand for the merger is accepted for these employees, it will have to be applied to the staff of other departments - who are not government employees but are associated with government services - as well. “There are 15 to 16 other departments whose staffers are not government employees, but are associated with the respective services. If we want to consider all these employees together for the merger, then perhaps, the government will have to run for such purpose only and there is doubt that the funds will be available for development projects,” Pawar noted. For the workers though, it has become a “do or die” situation as they look towards an uncertain future. Deepak Garjale, a conductor at one of the Pune depots, said, “It feels bad to go on strike for so long and that too during the peak season of Diwali. We understand that passengers are suffering but we also do not have a choice as it is a matter of life or death for us. Already 40 workers have committed suicide due to this issue and many others have suffered health problems since the strike began. The state government should understand our sentiments and demands seriously, and give orders for a merger immediately.”Speaking about the further plan of action, advocate Sadavarte stressed that the state government knows its limitations and that they have climbed down from their adamant position. “The state transport minister cannot appoint drivers directly from outside as 48 days’ training is compulsory and we will continue our legal fight till justice is meted out to the workers,” he said.MSRTC - by the numbersTotal no. of MSRTC depots in the state - 250Number of employees - 96,000Total no. of bus fleet with MSRTC - 18,500Workers suspended till now - 7,500Workers dismissed till now - 1,496Workers who have resumed work till now - 18,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/section-of-msrtc-staff-still-on-strike-say-it-s-only-way-to-see-demands-met-101638110540870.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Two years of MVA: Turned crisis into opportunity, improved health infra says CM||As Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government completed two years in power on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state government would continue to work for the welfare of the common man, no matter how many crises come their way. Thackeray, in a statement, said that the MVA government succeeded in turning crisis into opportunity. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, has called the two years of the state’s ruling party as the culmination of the “pain and misery”. Thackeray, who is recuperating in a private hospital after a spine surgery earlier this month, said, “We did not get distracted with the man-made or natural calamities, and will never get distracted in future as well. No matter the number of crises that may come, we will continue to work for the welfare of the common man.” The chief minister listed out the various decisions and programmes undertaken by his government to showcase the achievements. He added that a greater portion of the two years of the coalition government was spent in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic “systematically and efficiently.” “Despite the pandemic, the government worked hard on various fronts and succeeded in turning the crisis into an opportunity,” said CM. He added that there was a marked improvement in the health, medical facilities, and infrastructure in these two years. Senior MVA minister Nawab Malik said that the government performed better than other states in tackling Covid. He also said that the government has spoken less and done more work. “More than 6.65 million citizens were affected due to Covid-19; Maharashtra was the worst-hit state, even then, we did better than other states, without any complaints of non-availability of beds or oxygen,” Malik said. Meanwhile, Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘RokhThok’ published in Saamana, listed out the Opposition’s achievements in the past two years and said it was directionless. The Opposition’s list of “achievements” included the misuse of central agencies against MVA, defaming the Thackeray family and MVA in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, allegations against Uddhav Thackeray, Aaditya Thackeray, Rashmi Thackeray, Ajit Pawar, Sharad Pawar, and Supriya Sule and the false case against Nawab Malik’s son-in-law, among other things. Raut said Thackeray braved all the “below the belt” attacks and stood firm against the Opposition. “What the BJP is doing is not politics, but it is conspiring out of desperation,” he wrote. The Sena leader in his column taunted BJP over the 80-hour government of Devendra Fadnavis. “Even though the opposition has not been able to topple the government, it still gives new dates of dislodging the MVA. This is funny,” said Raut, who is also the executive editor of Saamana. BJP leader Ashish Shelar called the two years of MVA government the culmination of the “pain and misery” afflicting the people of Maharashtra. He said, “In reality, this is a government built on nepotism revolving around sons, daughters and nephews... The two years of the MVA government did not centre around the welfare of the people. Instead, it revolved around sons, daughters and nephews of the ruling party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-years-of-mva-turned-crisis-into-opportunity-improved-health-infra-says-cm-101638110360958.html
28-11-2021||Pune||215 new Covid cases and two deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE As of Sunday, Pune district reported 215 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths. This takes the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.13 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 2,0051 with active 2,069 cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 18,464 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 56 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 367,747. The death toll stands at 6,972, as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 99 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 523,108. The death toll stands at 9,217 with no deaths reported on Sunday. PCMC reported 60 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,828. The death toll in PCMC stands at 3,512, as one death was reported on Sunday. Pune district also saw 18,464 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. Of a total of 13,019,582 vaccinations given, 8,076,197 are first doses and 4,943,385 are second doses. A total of 249 sites saw vaccinations of which 147 were govt centres and 102 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/215-new-covid-cases-and-two-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101638110300935.html
28-11-2021||Patna||Bihar govt on alert to tackle new Covid-19 variant, CM asks health staff to be vigilant||The Bihar government is on alert to tackle the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 and has directed health officials to carry out genomic surveillance of all Covid-19 positive samples during RT-PCR tests to ascertain the strain of the virus found. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday directed officials to be alert in view of the new variant of Covid-19 and ensure that there are adequate stocks of medicines and health facilities at hospitals. Kumar, who reviewed the ongoing vaccination programme against Covid-19 during a meeting of the health department on Sunday, also stressed that people having returned from abroad should be monitored and those having tested Covid-19 positive should be screened for the new variant. Health minister Mangal Pandey, on Sunday, said, “Though there has been no positive cases of the new variant in the country so far, the health department is on alert mode and directives have been issued to health officials to maintain high vigil during RT-PCR tests for detecting any strain of the new variant so that immediate steps can be taken”. Asked about the central government’s directives to conduct tests of around 281 people who have arrived from foreign countries in the last two months in Bihar, the health minister said the health officials have started visiting the houses of the people mentioned in the list. “Health officials have started visiting the people mentioned in the list who have returned from abroad. There are instances where people have their addresses in Bihar but live in different parts of the country. So, for all those people who are staying in Bihar, we will conduct their tests,” the minister said. Officials said districts had been instructed to carry out genomic surveillance of all Covid-19 positive samples to ascertain the strain of the virus. The state has also instructed officials for heightened surveillance and proper contact tracing of all Covid-19 cases. It has also instructed officials not to show any laxity in testing. Earlier the Chief Minister during a review meeting of the health department asked the officials to accelerate the vaccination drive against Covid-19 and directed that widespread awareness should be done to ensure that people having taken their first dose of the jab should take the second dose. Kumar also stressed that all modes of publicity should be put to use to encourage people having taken the first dose to take the second dose and also accelerate the vaccination drive. “There should be state level monitoring of those districts where the vaccination drive and testing is slow. There should not be any laxity on testing and wide publicity of the vaccination drive,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-on-alert-to-tackle-new-covid-19-variant-cm-asks-health-staff-to-be-vigilant-101638110180923.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Building permissions to be made available online soon: Eknath Shinde||PUNE Maharashtra minister for urban development and public works Eknath Shinde, on Sunday said that the state will soon have an online system in place to give permissions to construction projects. This has been a long pending demand from real estate players so as to minimse red-tape. “Some municipal corporations and councils have already made arrangements to offer approval online. From January 1, we have decided to start the online process across the state, except Mumbai. It will greatly reduce the stress on the developers,” said Shinde. He was speaking at the General Body meeting of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai) Maharashtra on Sunday. He also unveiled a booklet titled ‘Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (UDCPR). Shinde said that the government has planned to offer an additional Floor Space Index (FSI) to redevelopment projects. “This is being done to encourage redevelopment in the state,” said Shinde. The FSI indicates how high a developer can build on a plot. It is the ratio of total built-up area to the size of the plot. According to Shinde, the complicated rules have been made simpler so that the UDCPR becomes development-oriented as well as people-oriented. This in turn benefits the people. According to Shinde, the demand for the implementation of new UDCPR for Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) region will be considered at the government level. “The developmental projects like Pune Metro, ring road, Samrudhi Highway are beneficial for the progress. The country progresses faster when it’s transport and communication systems are well developed. Maharashtra is the first state to formulate such an integrated development plan for the entire state, which is why it is a matter of great pride for us that other states are also seeking the help of their state authorities to follow suit,” he said. Credai national chairman Satish Magar, said that while creating any manual for rules and regulations, care should be taken on its quick implementation so that it will be easier for the builder to pass on the benefits to the people. Credai Maharashtra president Sunil Furde said, “At present there are difficulties in getting building permits online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/building-permissions-to-be-made-available-online-soon-eknath-shinde-101638110061340.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Power restored in schools ahead of reopening: Pune ZP||PUNE As the primary schools are all set to reopen from December 1, Pune zilla parishad (ZP) has claimed that the disconnected power supply has been restored in the schools. Earlier, in November the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) had snapped the power supply of 800 schools due to non-payment of bills. According to ZP officials, out of the due bill payment of ₹2.28 crore, ₹1.91 crore has been sanctioned. “With most primary schools reopening on December 1, power has been restored in all schools,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer Pune zilla parishad. Pune ZP operates 3,639 schools in Pune district. According to officials, the MSEDCL had snapped power of 800 schools. Elected members in the ZP claim that this number was way higher than what is being reported. As the higher classes were set to reopen after Diwali vacation, ZP had directed local bodies such as the grampanchayat to pay the electricity bills from their funds. “MSEDCL has informed us that they have restored the power supply in the schools. However, if any school still doesn’t have power the school administration should immediately inform block education officers and MSEDCL,” said Prasad. Despite our repeated attempts, MSEDCL officials remained unavailable to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/power-restored-in-schools-ahead-of-reopening-pune-zp-101638109820958.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Reinforce Covid-appropriate behaviour, task force advises state||Mumbai In the wake of the new Covid variant, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force has advised the government to stringently screen inbound travellers, reinforce Covid-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on wearing N95 or double masks, focus on vaccination and check the preparedness of the state’s health infrastructure.The task force had convened an emergency meeting on Saturday to discuss the concerns about the new SARS-CoV-2 variant B.1.1.529, which has been named Omicron by the World Health Organisation (WHO). “The literature coming out about the new variant points to its high rate of transmission and its possible resistance to the antibodies generated through the vaccine or natural infection, which is a cause of concern,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “We should not panic, but focus all attention on the best options available in our hand- follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, vaccination and maintaining physical distance,” he added. Globally, the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 continues to remain dominant but the scientific community is particularly concerned about Omicron’s multiple mutations, some of them in the ACE2 receptor- the proteins that are entry points for the virus into the human cells. “All cases of Omicron found so far are mild, but it is only two weeks since we know about it. It’s better to exercise caution,” he said. The B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to WHO from South Africa on November 24. The WHO too has stated that the preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with Omicron, as compared to other variants of concern (VOCs). The health agency has also called for enhanced surveillance and genome sequencing efforts. The task force has asked the state government to speed up the completion of the last mile of vaccination and also run a preparedness check on the healthcare infrastructure in case of a surge. Dr Joshi said that people should wear N95 masks or wear double masks for better protection instead of simply using a cloth mask. “Better ventilation is crucial and closed-door congregations should be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reinforce-covid-appropriate-behaviour-task-force-advises-state-101638108981108.html
28-11-2021||Jaipur||‘CM’s advisors or Parliamentary Secretaries not to get any ministerial status’: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said that MLAs appointed as his advisors or those who will be appointed as parliamentary secretaries will not get any ministerial status or any perks. Hours after cabinet rejig, CM Ashok Gehlot had appointed six advisors, which include three Congress MLAs and three independents on Sunday. Calling the appointments unconstitutional, the opposition BJP has raised its objection, and also to the possible appointment of dozen parliamentary secretaries. On BJP’s memorandum, Governor Kalraj Mishra has sought clarity on the constitutional status of the appointment.Addressing newspersons at the state Congress office, Gehlot when asked over the controversy, said, “I am only taking advice. Everyone is aware that after Supreme Court orders no one can be given any ministerial status or other perks but if they aren’t given these (status or any perks) what’s wrong?”Speaking on inflation and the party’s December 12 rally on price rise, Gehlot suggested that the Central government should give grants to oil companies to address their financial needs instead of letting fuel prices increase which put pressure on the public. He said that inflation has shaken people across the country and there is a need to curb it. “The GoI should assure people that fuel prices will not be increased so that effective control on inflation can be done.” The CM accused the Centre of weakening the states financially and working against the federal structure. “They are not able to understand the federal structure. They are weakening the states financially. When the states are strong, the country will be strong. The financial management of states is getting disturbed. And all this is happening due to wrong policies of the Centre,” he said.He reiterated that the Centre has reduced basic excise duty on petrol and diesel from which states used to get share and increased special excise duty, additional excise duty and Cess which is kept by the Centre. Gehlot alleged that the Centre has reduced petrol and diesel prices in view of assembly elections in five states and people understand it. “When they can reduce the rates due to election then why cannot they assure the country that the prices will not be increased further?” he asked. State Congress president, Govind Singh Dotasra said that around 40,000 to 50,000 party workers from the state will participate in the rally. “Modi government came to power by making false promises and made the life of the common man miserable. The PM has done nothing to address inflation or unemployment, besides making speeches,” he said. Commenting on the matter, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said if the appointments made aren’t given any status, then what’s the point making them. “It clearly shows that the CM is trying to stabilise factionalism and destabilise the government by such moves,” he said. Pareek added Congress points at the Centre for inflation but why cannot the state government reduce the VAT like done by other states to provide relief to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cms-advisors-or-parliamentary-secretaries-not-to-get-any-ministerial-status-gehlot-101638108381733.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||AC local trains to run on harbour line in Mumbai from December 1||Mumbai Commuters travelling on the harbour line of the Central Railway will be able to travel in the Air-Conditioned (AC) compartments from December 1. The Central Railway has decided to operate 12 AC local train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Panvel railway station from Wednesday. They have decided to operate three AC local trains during peak hours in the morning and evening. Each train is expected to cover 12 rounds in a day, said a senior railway official.Currently, 26 AC local train services are operational on the Central Railway mainline between CSMT-Kalyan and trans-harbour railway line between Thane and Vashi railway stations. On average, as many as 3000 commuters take the AC local trains every day.The first AC local train on the Central Railway was introduced on the trans-harbour railway line in January 2020. The train services were later suspended due to Covid-19 cases in the city.The railway ministry is also considering a proposal on reducing fares of the AC local train in order to increase the patronage of the trains. The fares of the AC local train are likely to be priced on par with the fares of the metro rail.Meanwhile, the railways have also extended their suburban train services operating between CSMT-Andheri to CSMT-Goregaon for seamless travel of the passengers.Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager, Central Railway shares that currently, 44 local train services operate between CSMT and Andheri railway stations that will be extended till Goregaon for comfortable commute. “This will help passengers to save time and travel seamlessly between Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. Also, all local train services between CSMT-Andheri and Panvel-Andheri railway stations will be extended to Goregaon railway stations on the harbour railway,” informed Anil Kumar Lahoti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ac-local-trains-to-run-on-harbour-line-in-mumbai-from-december-1-101638108081063.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Union minister slams MVA govt, calls Thackeray ‘absentee CM’||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday claimed that people call the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra ‘Maha Vasulia Aghadi Sarkar’ and suggested ‘Maha Vishwasghati Aghadi Sarkar’ as the full form for the coalition.Javadekar while addressing a press conference also targeted Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. Calling him ‘accidental and absentee’ chief minister, he said that the government is ‘corrupt, anti-people and useless’ following the MVA government’s completion of two years in office. Javadekar also listed cases of alleged corruption against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena leaders.“There is nothing worth praising about the two years of this government. It has been the most corrupt, opportunist, anti-people and useless government ever in Maharashtra,” Javadekar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. “People call it Maha Vasulia Aghadi Sarkar. I want to give it a new name - Maha Vishwasghati Aghadi Sarkar,” he said.Javadekar further added that the MVA-led alliance led to the criminalisation of politics in the state during its two years in office. “While the income tax raids at a prominent NCP minister's residence revealed 'benami' property worth ₹1000 crore, another NCP minister was arrested for kidnapping and assaulting a common man,” he said. “One NCP minister purchased land at a throwaway price from underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's associate who was involved in 1993 serial bomb blast in Mumbai,” he further alleged without taking any names. He highlighted that Maharashtra gave their mandate to the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance in the 2019 assembly polls but the chief minister forged an alliance with rivals NCP and Congress for the post of the chief minister.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on the completion of two years lauded the government for turning the crisis into an opportunity. He said that most of MVA’s two years were spent on managing Covid-19. He also thanked citizens for their support and said that the MVA is the only ‘people’s government.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-minister-slams-mva-govt-calls-thackeray-absentee-cm-101638107457305.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Kurla rape and murder: Premeditated attack; victim was hit with hammer, stabbed 6 times, say cops||The Vinoba Bhave police, which is investigating the rape and murder of an 18-year-old woman in Kurla, have said in their remand application that the two accused, who were arrested on Saturday night, had pre-planned the brutal and heinous act. On Thursday evening, a partially decomposed body of a young woman was found by three teenagers, at a vacant building in Vinoba Bhave Nagar. The preliminary probe had revealed that the woman was raped before being killed. Deputy commissioner of police Pranay Ashok of zone 5 said the arrested accused had carried a knife and hammer, which were used to kill the victim. It was a premeditated attack. Both the accused, slit the throat of the 18-year-old, smashed her skull with a hammer and then stabbed her 26 times in her abdomen and chest, which resulted in her death. The arrested accused are identified as Rehan, 19, and Faisal Ansari, 19. Both were produced in court and are remanded in police custody till December 6. Rehan lives in the Govandi area where the victim stayed with her family, while Faisal is a resident of Bharat Nagar in Kurla (West). “The initial task for us was to identify the body. We circulated the victim’s picture in all the police stations across the city to find out if any missing complaint was registered. It was found that a missing complaint was registered in Deonar police station on November 23. The description of the missing girl and the murdered woman was almost the same. Missing girl’s parents were called and they identified the victim and her clothes,” added Ashok. Senior police inspector Rajesh Pawar of the Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station said, “Once the victim was identified, we started questioning the relatives and people known to the victim. We zeroed in on Rehan and as the location of Faisal matched with Rehan, he was also taken into custody. After interrogating them together, they confessed to the crime. Hammer was recovered from Faisal’s residence and the knife is still missing, which they claim had been thrown in a nullah, near Faisal’s residence.” As per the statement given by the accused, Rehan and the victim knew each other for over two years and the victim was forcing him to marry her. He then hatched a plan with Faisal to kill her. Rehan called her on November 23 under the pretext of discussing their marriage plan. The duo took her on the 13th floor of a vacant building and killed her, said Ashok. “The accused then fled from there. The accused were found hiding at Faisal’s residence and were arrested under the charges of murder, rape and destruction of evidence” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kurla-rape-and-murder-premeditated-attack-victim-was-hit-with-hammer-stabbed-6-times-say-cops-101638107600808.html
28-11-2021||Other||Nishad Raj’s statue to be installed in Varanasi: UP min||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government would install a statue of Nishad Raj at Telia Nala Ghat Park in Varanasi.Tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari announced this on Sunday after laying foundation of development works worth about ₹1.21 crore at Telia Nala Ghat Park. The Telia Nala Ghat is also known as the Nishad Raj Ghat.“The Telia Nala Ghat park will be developed done in the park where we will also install a statue of Nishad Raj,” the minister said. The minister said the park would be equipped with all the facilities.The minister said Nishad Raj was someone who took Lord Rama across the Ganga in his boat. “Nishad Raj’s faith and devotion is cited even today and the Telia Nala Ghat on the banks of the Ganga is dedicated to the same community in Kashi. It is also known as the Nishad Raj Ghat. Before 1980, it used to be part of Prahlad Ghat. Later, construction of Pucca Ghat was done by the irrigation department,” he said. CAPTION:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nishad-raj-s-statue-to-be-installed-in-varanasi-up-min-101638106281344.html
28-11-2021||Patna||Thalassemia activist from West Bengal cycles to Patna with a message||A labourer turned Thalassemia activist from West Bengal, Shyama Prasad Dutt Roy pedalled a distance of nearly 800 kilometres from Alipurduar in West Bengal on his bicycle to reach Patna in Bihar on Saturday, completing a leg of his nationwide campaign to create awareness about the disease as he meets Thalassemia patients and their families.Thalassemia is a hereditary blood disorder, which results in lower than normal amounts of oxygen carrying protein (haemoglobin) in blood and some of its patients have to often go through blood transfusions to survive. People who are carriers of a thalassemia gene show no symptoms and might not know they’re carriers. If both parents are carriers, they can pass the disease to their kids.Roy says he wants to tell parents of potential brides and grooms that they must understand the importance of conducting tests to ensure the would be couple is not Thalassemia minor.There are nearly 4,000 Thalassemia patients in Bihar. Recently, the state government started a day care centre at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for consultation, blood transfusion and treatment for Thalassemia patients.Roy says the harassment and trauma associated with periodical blood transfusions can be avoided if parents decided to test for Thalassemia before bearing a child.Also Read: Bihar wins gold award in 40th International Trade Fair held in Delhi“It’s a hereditary disease and the only way to stop it is to stop marriages of persons with Thalassemia minor symptoms,” he said.Roy says he first learnt about Thalassemia during his numerous visits to donate blood when told that the camps were mainly for the benefit of Thalassemia patients.“I was told that they would be dependent upon such blood donations lifelong. It was shocking. But far more frustrating was the fact that the patients were the victims of ignorance of their parents. I realised that people need to be told to stop it “ he said.The activist said he then decided on a nationwide bicycle tour to spread awareness on the need to test for Thalassemia before marriage.“I have been travelling since November 18, and during this journey, I realised how ignorant people are about this disease and its reasons. I meet the organisations working for Thalassemia patients and ask them to arrange meetings with them to help them understand the disease and its impact,” he said.Mukesh Hissarya, who runs a nationwide network of blood donors and has been working for Thalassemia patients in the state, said testing for Thalassemia during pregnancy should also be encouraged. “ I appeal to doctors to also recommend this test for pregnant women,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/thalassemia-activist-from-west-bengal-cycles-to-patna-with-a-message-101638098001052.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Your Space: There’s risk in opening schools and there are no ways to manage it||With schools set to resume operations from December 1, our readers say that even if schools reopen with proper preparation and investment in virus control, children can still transmit the virus. Though education is too important to keep all remote, parents can’t risk it all Govt should be well prepared The government should be the one to take a call on reopening schools. Children are now bored with online classes. We should open schools not because it would be risk-free, but because schools are important, and the risks can be managed. The state government should take all necessary precautions to keep the school clean and maintain all Covid-19 safety protocols. We are happy with the decision but worried as we read about cases rising in European countries. We are hoping the government is capable of handling the situation carefully. Vijay Ovhal Do not make it compulsory Government should not make it mandatory for every student to go to school. Children do not listen to parents at home to follow the precautionary measures. How can the teachers and staff handle soo many students at a time? Cleaning is another concern. How many times does the school staff clean toilets, washrooms, and class rooms? Standard operating procedure (SOP) has not been declared yet. We have to consider all pros and cons before sending our children to school. Anukush Kandagale Discuss issues with parents Our children travel by school buses. Will they maintain all safety measures during transportation? How will social distancing be maintained in the class? All this has parents worried and creates confusion. The government must conduct a parents and teachers meeting to discuss all these issues. It will help to smooth the process and resolve the problems of parents. Mehaboob Sayyad Consider all aspects before taking a decision I am a principal at a civic school. It is difficult to follow social distancing norms as there are 40 students in each class and we cannot accommodate all of them together. Will the teacher concentrate on teaching or focus on the students’ hygiene? At present, not all students of Class 9 and 10 are attending the school. How can primary school students join school after governments’ decision? I am not against the decision but it should be taken considering all aspects Lack of teachers is another problem. One teacher teaches at least three to four classes. If we decide to conduct classes in batches to follow the social distancing, teachers will have to face a lot of problems. Namdev Jagtap Will not send my child to school Considering that Covid-19 is far from over, I will not be sending my child to the school. If we send our child wearing a mask, is there a guarantee that the teachers ensure she will wear a mask at all times. I do not send my child to the playground in the society due to the risk of infection, how can I take the risk of sending her to school. We are okay with online school. Government should give both options to students offline and online.” Sharad Jadhav Provide better facilities for online education I don’t understand why the state government is insisting to reopen schools when there are only a few months left until the end of the academic year. While countries like China, Europe, Singapore, and Russia are once again imposing a lockdown, despite vaccination, our state government wants us to send our children to school. I don’t think it is necessary at this stage. Instead of doing all these non-practical things, the government should concentrate on providing better facilities for online education. Prashant Kulkarni No preparedness at government level We are not ready to put our children’s lives in danger for school. Education is necessary but is it more important than life? Now that children are used to online education, why does the state government want to disconnect them from it? There is no vaccine for children; therefore, I feel it is risky for our children to attend school. Children are now falling into a vulnerable category. They will come in contact with all types of people when school reopens. Yes, we are thinking negatively for the sake of our children’s future, but there are no dedicated facilities to tackle pediatric units in the state. We don’t see any preparedness at government level. Laksmi Vardhaman Not worth the risk After almost two years, life has started to come back on track, and we do not want to risk it all by sending our child to school. We have has senior citizens in the family who caught the virus and we have been through enough trauma. We don’t want to face the same problem with our children only for school. Our children are happy with online classes in the current academic year. Our entire family will suffer if anything happens to our child. We cannot afford medical treatment right now and it’s not worth the risk at all. Mahesh Vishwakarma Govt should not make hasty decisions I would like to ask government employees and politicians, if they are ready to send their children to school? Are they confident that their child is in safe hands? It is very easy to tell others to do things. The government should not play with the sentiments of parents. Most people have travelled abroad, hence, the government should have to wait, watch and observe the situation instead of taking any hasty decision, especially to reopen primary schools. They should have to analyse the situation of college, secondary schools which have already reopened. Modaram Solanki School’s might increase fees Instead of reopening primary schools, the government should reopen each class after a certain interval so that teachers, parents, school administrators and staff members are well prepared to handle the situation. If schools reopen, the administration will start charging regular fees or may charge more fees in the name of Covid-19 protocols. Common people are already facing financial problems, and the government has also directed schools to cut down school fees. State government’s decision to reopen school may help private school operating lobby instead of children welfare. Binavath Goud||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-there-s-risk-in-opening-schools-and-there-are-no-ways-to-manage-it-101638096979895.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Curtain call: Theatre and the German connection||The year was 2014. Goethe Institute Max Mueller Bhavan was celebrating its 100th anniversary in India. As part of their celebrations, they had invited a German writer from Switzerland - Mr Charles Lewinsky to address theatre practitioners in Pune and help them get acquainted with his work. Mr Satish Alekar - one of the most important playwrights in India - was going to moderate the session. They had also asked a few of the young brigade in Pune to talk about their work. I was one of them. Mr Lewinsky started his address and I was enjoying the clippings of his plays. They were grand! I remember that one such play was performed on the banks of the lake Geneva. A huge, moving stage was built there. It seemed all his plays were grand. Of course, it helped that many plays received sponsorship from the state there. There was a meet and greet after the session and I had a chance to meet him. I do not know where I got the courage, but I asked him if he had a script that could be performed in India, in venues that were much smaller. I was surprised that even he responded warmly. He thought about it and gave me his email ID. I emailed him after a week and was even more surprised to receive two of his scripts in my inbox! I excitedly opened one of the them to start reading, forgetting the fact that they were in German, which I did not understand! Immediately I sent them to a friend who could read them and asked her to tell me their stories. After nearly a week she got back and narrated their stories. I especially liked one of them. It dealt with the question “Why theatre?”. Something that I ask myself everyday. I started thinking about it and planning it in my head. I spoke to a few friends and even they seemed excited. Before I could actively start this play, a film I was trying to get made was greenlit. Then another, different play. And before I knew it, I had directed three different plays and films. But I always had this play at the back of my mind. The pandemic struck and the world came to a standstill. Theatre was affected the most. And it brought the question “Why theatre?” to the fore. I was reminded of that play again. And I realised that it has become even more relevant in the post Covid era. I got it translated, and finally began its process after seven long years. There is now a new announcement that theatres will open with 100% capacity from the December 1. It is happening after 21 long months! It is wonderful to rehearse every day, just like old times. And now we are waiting for audiences to flock to the theatres in large numbers. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-theatre-and-the-german-connection-101638096682991.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 fallout: Flight to New York remains a dream||Propelled by a hedonistic whim, I fancied a celebratory sojourn in New York soon after retirement, which was due on September 30, 2019. Undeterred by hearsay that getting a US visa was an uphill task, I downloaded the DS-160 webpage to apply for a visitor visa on the verge of retirement. Interviews for the US visa are held at their embassy in New Delhi and consulates in Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Hyderabad. As I hailed from Chandigarh, I chose the US Embassy in New Delhi, as also the first available date for the interview. The long queue at the gate of the US embassy signalled tough competition. Absorbed in observing the body language of fellow aspirants in the queue, I inched forward for security check. After the rigorous frisking, I was ushered into the interview hall to wait for my name to be called. There were many interview counters on one side of the hall. One applicant was called at a time at each of the counters. The expression of dejection or rejoice on the candidates’ face at the end of their interview indicated rejection or approval of their application. The withholding of passport by the embassy symbolised approval. Eventually, my turn came. I responded confidently to the lucid queries, asked gently, about my job, the reasons for a US visit, my stay arrangements in the US, etc. The consular officer, an affable lady, concluded with a smile, “OK, Mr Gupta, you will receive your passport after a couple of days”. I thanked her courteously, beaming. The due diligence in filling in the D-160 electronic application had paid the dividends, I surmised. A few days after the interview and before my retirement, I was overwhelmed with exhilaration upon receiving my passport with the US visa affixed therein. Initially, I intended to go to the US in October 2019 itself. But an NRI friend convinced me that the best season to travel to New York would be the spring season, which is the April-June quarter. So, the next year in February, I booked the flight to New York for the end of April 2020. Feeling upbeat, I started browsing the internet for a suitable hotel in Manhattan. Though the initial news about Covid-19 had started trickling, I never imagined it would jeopardise my trip. By each passing day, the threat of the pandemic started looming larger. Before the end of March 2020, all scheduled international flights out of India had been suspended. India was placed under prolonged lockdown. My air ticket was left in abeyance. When Covid appeared to be abating by February 2021, I rescheduled my trip for NYC for the first half of May 2021. As if my trip was jinxed, the second wave of Covid, more lethal than before, struck our country at that very juncture. Scheduled international flights continued to be in suspension month after month. Broken-hearted, I finally requested the airline to cancel my ticket and refund the amount, which they graciously did. Covid-19 sure did shatter my post-retirement foreign dream as it would have done in the case of million others. chander59@icloud.com The writer is a Panchkula-based retired banker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-fallout-flight-to-new-york-remains-a-dream-101638095840197.html
28-11-2021||Other||MSRTC bus driver arrested for blocking, vandalising state transport bus in Bhiwandi||A 35-year-old Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus driver was arrested by the Kongaon police for allegedly blocking a state transport bus and vandalising it by pelting stone, officials said. Followed by the complaint lodged by depot manager Tukaram Salunke, the Kongaon police arrested Vitthal Balasaheb Khedkar, a driver at Kalyan depot, for blocking the bus, sleeping under the bus, and pelting stones on the front and back windows of the bus. The incident took place at Kongaon while the bus from Kalyan depot was heading to Bhiwandi. The accused allegedly stopped the bus at Kongaon and then slept under it. “Passengers inside bus came out and managed to move Khedkar to a side however he then picked up a stone and threw on the front window of the bus and later another on the back window. The windows of the bus were broken in the incident,” said Salunke, who lodged a complaint. On Saturday night Khedkar was arrested by the Kongaon police. “The driver, who is one among the agitators, vandalised the bus. We have arrested him and will produce him to court. He was booked for stone-pelting, vandalism, leading to a hurdle in governmental service. Further investigation in this matter is under progress,” said GD Pingle, senior police inspector, Kongaon police. The MSRTC employees across the state have been agitating since October 27 demanding a merger of the undertaking with the state government that would give them a better salary and greater job security. This has led to the non-functioning of state transport buses. Meanwhile, the Kalyan depot has managed to resume five buses on the Kalyan-Bhiwandi route since Saturday as some of the drivers resumed work. On Sunday the five buses continued to ply on the Kalyan-Bhiwandi route informed Salunke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msrtc-bus-driver-arrested-for-blocking-vandalising-state-transport-bus-in-bhiwandi-101638095359747.html
28-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka announces more Covid containment measures, mandates negative RT PCR for students from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Sunday announced new Covid-19-related restrictive measures in the state in view of the recent clusters of the disease identified at educational institutions in Dharwad, Bengaluru and Mysuru districts.All passengers arriving from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra are expected to produce a negative RT-PCR certificate, not older than 72 hours, at the state’s entry points. The certificate has been made mandatory irrespective of the vaccination status. Further, students who have arrived from Kerala to medical and paramedical colleges in the state within the past 15 days (between 12 and 27 November) would also be subjected to a compulsory RT-PCR test.Special surveillance measures in the light of recent clusters of Covid -19 detected.@cmofKarnataka @mla_sudhakar @Comm_dhfwka @HubballiRailway@KodaguConnect @IChangeMyCity@WeAreBangalore @bangalore@Belagavi_infra @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe pic.twitter.com/vt99Ixv1oN“Henceforth, those students arriving from Kerala State to Medical and Paramedical Colleges and other such educational institutions within Karnataka shall be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR test on the 7th day after their arrival,” the government further said.Earlier on Saturday, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai met with the state health and disaster department to discuss the looming threat of the omicron variant. Following the meeting, it was decided that the monitoring for the disease in bordering districts would be increased and at the entry point for the state.Also read | K'taka intensifies curbs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, omicron variant scareAmid the worries due to the emergence of the Omicron variant, 281 new Covid-19 cases have been identified across some colleges in the state. The cases are reportedly believed to have been transmitted primarily because of a freshers’ party in the SDM Medical College in Dharwad, which is now being called a “super spreader” event.While the government has said that all the primary and secondary contacts of those infected are being tested, on Sunday, it issued an advisory directing educational institutions to postpone social and cultural events by two months. “Conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions, wherever possible, may be postponed. Alternatively, it could be conducted in hybrid mode i.e. with minimal physical attendance and with more persons attending through virtual mode,” the government said.What changes now?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-announces-more-covid-containment-measures-mandates-negative-rt-pcr-for-students-from-kerala-101638093058254.html
28-11-2021||Patna||Bihar wins gold award in 40th International Trade Fair held in Delhi||Bihar bagged gold medal in the 40th India International Trade Fair (IITF) held at Pragati Maidan in Delhi on Saturday for “excellence in display” in state government/union territory pavilion category.The Bihar Pavilion comprised 41 stalls exhibiting the finest products from the state to reflect the traditional folk art culture. Bihar’s resident commissioner Palka Sahni and the director of Upendra Maharathi Craft Research Institute, Ashok Sinha received the award.Bihar’s state industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain expressed happiness on the state winning the gold medal for the sixth time in the past seven years.“It is an honour for the state to win a gold [medal] among the exhibitions of many states and other countries. The products made by the handicraftsmen and weavers of Bihar are of international standard in workmanship, beauty and quality, and that is the reason why people of the country and abroad liked it so much. The award would encourage the handicraftsmen and weavers in carrying forward traditional skills and folk art with full dedication and hard work.”Also Read: Bihar land acquisition officer’s houses raided, property worth crores revealedDuring the fair, the renowned folk artist and Padma Shri awardee Dulari Devi’s live exhibition of Madhubani paintings remained the centre of attraction.Besides, Bihar Pavilion’s eco-friendly products were also appreciated.“The skills of artisans and weavers living in rural areas of the state are getting recognition in the country and abroad and such international platforms will open up more possibilities for them. Our pavilion has presented the picture of Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) village on the international stage,” added Hussain.IITF was organised at Pragati Maidan in Delhi from November 14 to 27. The fair attracted participants from 24 Indian states and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-receives-gold-award-in-40th-international-trade-fair-held-in-delhi-101638092719475.html
28-11-2021||Bangalore||Munawar Faruqui a ‘controversial figure’, say Bengaluru cops, comedian's show cancelled||The Bengaluru police have denied permission to Munawar Faruqui's stand-up comedy show in the city on Sunday amid protest by the Hindu right wing outfits who alleged that the artist had hurt the Hindu sentiments in one of his shows. "Yes, we have denied him permission. He will not perform any public show today," a senior police officer told PTI on condition of anonymity. According to information, Faruqui had planned a performance 'Dongri To Nowhere' on Sunday evening. The show was organised in Bengaluru by Vishal Dhuria and Siddharth Das of New Delhi-based Curtain Calls Event. However, various right wing organisations including Sriram Sena and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, had lodged a complaint with the Bengaluru city police Commissioner against the comedian charging him of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus by allegedly insulting Hindu Gods. The inspector of the Ashokanagar police station in the city under whose jurisdiction the Good Shepherd Auditorium falls wrote a letter to the organisers on Saturday to call off the event as the comedian is a controversial figure. "It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure..... Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh," the inspector said in his letter. He also stated that many organisations are opposing his show, which may cause chaos, disturb peace and harmony and create a law and order problem. "Therefore, it is suggested that you should cancel Faruqui's stand-up comedy show," the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/faruqui-a-controversial-figure-say-bengaluru-cops-comedian-s-show-cancelled-101638087141250.html
28-11-2021||Patna||Bihar land acquisition officer’s houses raided, property worth crores revealed||The Bihar government’s Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) on Saturday raided houses and office of a district land acquisition officer in Rohtas district, suspecting him to be in possession of assets worth ₹90 lakhs disproportionate to income but managed to discover his property holdings that alone were estimated close to ₹10 crore, officials aware of the developments said.Verification of various ownership documents of the officer’s movable and immovable properties was carried out at his lavish parental house at Forbesganj in Araria district apart from two flats in Patna and his office chamber at Sasaram (Rohtas). The roughly 18 hours long raids were carried out through search warrants issued by the special judge, Vigilance, Patna. The land acquisition officer is identified as Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a 1996 batch Bihar administrative service officer, who currently holds additional charge of Sasaram municipal commissioner. VIB said it also recovered ₹22 lakh in cash, five gold bars, a gold pen worth ₹46,000, jewellery worth ₹61.67 lakh, 25 passbooks, six ATMs cards, two lockers apart from land and plot related documents during the raids. The department claims that the seized documents indicate that Gupta owned more than six flats in Patna, 1.30 acre land in Purnia besides 55,000 square feet land in Ranchi. The estimated value of flats and land is roughly estimated to be around ₹10 crore, in absence of exact valuation, a VIB official said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Nitish Kumar calls for one India one power rate, seeks parity in consumer tariff“The price of land in those areas is very high and what Gupta owns may cost several crores of rupees,” the official mentioned above added. The VIB official said a case of disproportionate assets has been lodged and preliminary probe suggests that Gupta bought property with ill-gotten money. Gupta could not be contacted for his comments on the raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-land-acquisition-officer-s-houses-raided-property-worth-crores-revealed-101638089359074.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||23 arrested in connection with UPTET 2021 paper leak: Report||At least 23 people have been arrested in connection with the paper leak of the UPTET 2021, news agency ANI reported citing a senior police official on Sunday.The Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET) 2021, scheduled to be held on Sunday, was cancelled as reports of paper leaks in Mathura, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Bullandshahr came in before the exam started."Few photocopies of the question papers were found from those arrested. The exam will be again conducted in a month's time. STF to probe the case and take action against those found guilty," Prashant Kumar, additional director general (law and order) was quoted as saying by ANI.Uttar Pradesh basic education minister Dr Satish Dwivedi said the case will be investigated by Special Task Force (STF). "Uttar Pradesh government will soon conduct the exam within a month," Dwivedi said.UPTET 2021 will be conducted again within a month and no extra fee would be taken from the candidates for it, Dwivedi also said.UPTET is conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility as primary and upper primary level teachers in state-government run schools.UPTET 2021 for the primary level was to be held at 2,554 centres across UP between 10am and 12.30pm followed by a test for the upper primary level from 2.30pm to 5pm at 1,754 centres.As many as 12,91,628 candidates were registered to appear in the first shift and 873,553 in the second shift of UPTET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/23-arrested-in-connection-with-uptet-2021-paper-leak-report-101638084489733.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||#ShaadiSeason: Long queues at salons on heavy saaya day||Multiple heavy saaya days are upon us, with November 28 and 29 being the busiest. And now, it’s not only the wedding planners and bandwalas who are working overtime for #DilliwaliShaadis, but also the makeup artists and hairstylists. Last year, Covid-19 had slowed down business for many, but this time around, their cash registers are ringing crazy with record number of weddings this season. And Delhi-NCR’s brides-to-be have made sure to book appointments for makeup artists and hairstylists well in advance. “When we started making reservations for my wedding, a makeup artist was one of the first few people that we booked. I was very specific about the one I wanted and my parents fixed the date months in advance,” recalls Bandhana Karmakar, an event manager from Rajender Nagar, who is getting married today.“We have back-to-back bookings most days this season, especially on dates of heavy saaya. We started taking appointments months in advance for today. To maintain order, we are not allowing walk-ins and functioning on appointment basis only,” says Manpreet Kaur, from a beauty parlour in Shalimar Bagh. As last year posed many difficulties for most beauty parlours and salons in the city, many of them are making the most of this wedding season rush. Kaur adds: “We haven’t increased the cost of our services. If there are any slight increases, they are there as we’re using disposable items and following regular sanitisation as per Covid protocols. But we are also refraining from offering any discounts this time. We want to be careful and cover up old losses. In fact, customers are getting slots with so much difficulty that they are not asking for discounts either!” “The heavy rush is something that we anticipated,” says Neeti Saini, a makeup artist from Green Park, adding, “We have hired more staff for these days since. Pichle kayi saalon se double booking aayi hai iss saal. Last year sirf bridal packages ki booking thi par iss saal pehle ki tarah brides aur unki family members bhi full party makeup and hairstyling karwa rahe hai.”Besides one senior makeup artist, there is a team that has been put to work to ensure more bridal makeup requests can be fulfilled. “Humare paas itni bokings hain ki humne four brides ko ek saath bulana padh gaya hai. I do the main work and my team does the rest and I oversee. And today is such a heavy says that I’ll have eight brides coming in to get ready,” says Bhavna Mishra from a salon in Paschim ViharAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shaadiseason-long-queues-at-salons-on-heavy-saaya-day-101638082039005.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to review Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra with divisional commissioners, collectors||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a review meeting on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with all the divisional commissioners and collectors of the state on Sunday.The development comes amid rising concerns across the world over the omicron variant of the coronavirus—said to be highly transmissible and capable of undergoing rapid mutations, making it the potentially most dangerous variant of the virus after delta.No cases of omicron variant have so far been detected in India so far, according to the Centre. In view of the emerging new variant of the coronavirus, which was first detected in South Africa, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said a day ago that all passengers arriving at the city from that country will be quarantined and their samples sent for genome sequencing.Talking to the PTI news agency, Pednekar said, “There is an increased risk of coronavirus in foreign countries, so those coming from outside will have to undergo genome tests.”Similar restrictions might come into force for passengers coming from other countries affected by the new variant of the virus as well, she said.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has also called for a meeting on Sunday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state, in view of the emergent variant of the virus.“To take steps to stop flight operations with South Africa, etc, hopefully, a discussion will be held with the Prime Minister soon. Tomorrow, in the meeting, some steps will have to be taken (particularly related to the South Africa variant) to stop the spread from that area and of that variant here,” Pawar told reporters on Saturday.Meanwhile, the central government has also directed states to "rigorously' screen and test people travelling from three countries – South Africa, Botswana, and Hong Kong – where the cases of the omicron variant have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-with-divisional-commissioners-collectors-101638073971122.html
28-11-2021||Kolkata||18 killed in road accident in West Bengal's Nadia: Report||At least 18 people were killed and 5 others injured in a road accident that took place in West Bengal's Phulbari area of Nadia district late on Saturday night, police said.As per officials of the Hanskhali police station, people in a matador car were on its way to the Nabadeep crematorium to cremate a body from Bagda of North 24 Parganas on Saturday night.The matador was hit by a lorry loaded with stones which was parked on the side of the road and suddenly started at Phulbari area of Hanskhali police station area of Nadia. At least 18 people died on spot.The injured people have been shifted to Shaktinagar district hospital.Locals claimed that the accident was due to the dense fog and the high speed of vehicle.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/18-killed-in-road-accident-in-west-bengal-s-nadia-report-101638074808001.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Farmers to hold rally in Mumbai's Azad Maidan today, MVA may join||Farmers leaders have said as many as 50,000 farmers are expected to join the rally scheduled at Azad Maidan in Mumbai on Sunday, a day ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session. They also plan to bring the ashes of the farmers, who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on October 3, and immerse them in the Arabian Sea.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told news agency ANI farmers have also planned a ‘Kisaan Majdoor Mahapanchayat’ where they will discuss their demands for all farm-related issues including demand for all crop minimum support price (MSP), implementation of the Swaminathan report, unemployment and other issues.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra is also expected to join the rally to pay tribute to the lost lives."On November 28, we will support the farmers' rally which is to be held in Mumbai's Azad Maidan. However, no political person will share the stage," Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik said while addressing a press conference earlier this week.Eight people, including four farmers, died in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri when a speeding SUV—allegedly driven Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish—rammed into a group of farmers protesting against the three new farm laws in front of UP’s deputy chief minister (CM) Keshav Prasad Maurya and subsequent violence in October.The Centre has said that the bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws will be tabled on the first day of the upcoming Parliament session. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar is expected to introduce the bill in Lok Sabha on Monday, which was approved by the Union cabinet earlier this week.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended its November 29 tractor march to Parliament and said it will hold a meeting next month to decide its future course of action.The farmers' body had earlier said it will not end the stir until the contended farm laws are repealed and all their demands are met.The three laws – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act – were given assent by President Ram Nath Kovind on September 27, 2020, just days after both houses of Parliament passed them unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-to-hold-rally-in-mumbai-s-azad-maidan-today-mva-may-join-101638061446390.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||On Nawab Malik’s ‘trying to frame him in false cases’ comment, BJP has these questions||After Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik alleged that some people are trying to frame him in a false case, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has said a criminal is always under the fear of getting caught."There is always a fear of getting caught in the mind of the criminal. If someone is following him, then whose government is in Maharashtra? Who has the home ministry? BJP spokesperson Prem Shukla told news agency ANI on Saturday.“Instead of posting it on Twitter, why can't he complain to the home minister or police commissioner to initiate an investigation? It simply shows that Nawab Malik now knows that the way action was taken against Anil Deshmukh on the orders of the High Court, in the coming days, his pot of sins is also going to explode,” Shukla added.Also read | Nawab Malik, barred from talking about Wankhede on social media, tweets thisMalik, who is also a spokesperson of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), has claimed he has proof that some officers from central investigating agencies were preparing a draft of a complaint against him. He has also alleged that some people are trying to frame him in a false case just like they did with former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh."I have proof of WhatsApp chats about this. If central agencies are planning to lodge false cases against ministers then this is a serious matter and it will not be tolerated," he said.The NCP leader has also shared photos on Twitter of some people, alleging they were "doing a recce of his house". "These people riding in this car have been doing 'recce' at my house and school for the last few days. Let me know if anyone recognises them. To those in the picture, I want to say that if they need any information from me, I will give it to them," he tweeted on Friday.The NCP leader also said some people caught two men in a car taking pictures. “It was found that one of them has been writing against me on his Koo handle. He is usually seen wherever I go to the authorities or submit documents,” he added.Also read | Does it behove him as a minister?: What Bombay HC said on Nawab Malik's tweetsMalik said he will file a formal complaint with Union home minister Amit Shah and Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale. “I have multiple pieces of evidence against many conspirators. People are framing me like they framed Anil Deshmukh. It is not like we are scared, but what is the intention?" he added.Anil Deshmukh was arrested earlier this month by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for his alleged role in a money laundering case and is currently in jail under judicial custody.Also read | 'IT cell farziwada': Nawab Malik asks if this photo is behind Rane's predictionMalik has been targetting the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede after the anti-drugs agency raided a cruise ship and claimed to have seized drugs in October.Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others were arrested in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. They were later granted bail by the Bombay high court.Malik has claimed that the raid conducted by the NCB was a ploy to extort money from Aryan Khan and this conspiracy was hatched by a purported BJP functionary of which Wankhede was part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-malik-s-trying-to-frame-him-in-false-cases-comment-bjp-has-these-questions-101638065182789.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The Baaz, from prince to pauper||It would entail a feat of extraordinary diligence to unearth another species that could rival the obscurity heaped on the charismatic Northern goshawk (baaz) after Partition. A species that found rich resonance in religious/cultural life and the noble courts of the sub-continent all but disappeared from Indian public consciousness, barring the odd practitioner of falconry who persisted with his/her passion and procured this bird with increasing difficulty. To add to the goshawk’s woes, it is confused in the public mind with humdrum raptor species, such as Black kites, and its distinct profile erased. To be sure, not a single goshawk is retained in any Indian zoo. Regarded as the most esteemed bird of prey in the Mughal period, its association as a raptor trained to hunt with Mughal emperors, Sindh Ameers, hill rajahs, Bhavnagar kings and Sikh Gurus bestowed upon the goshawk exalted titles and names: Shikari chidiyon ka sardar, Shah-en-Shah, Sikander and Shahbaaz. As delineated by its zoological nomenclature in the Latin --- Accipiter gentilis --- this raptor could only be flown by the nobility. It was adored by kings because of its reckless courage while pursuing prey: a prize female goshawk of the Sindh nobles is even recorded to have brought down Chinkara gazelles! Considered without avian peer in the sub-continent’s chivalrous cultures, the goshawk was exchanged between royals as gifts, delivered as ransom and triggered battles between Sikh Gurus and Mughals. Ornithological literature unearths a money trail peculiar to the baaz. In the bygone era, the goshawk was trapped from Afghanistan and Gilgit-Baltistan and sold for staggering sums to the sub-continent’s princes at Lahore/Amritsar mandis. Just how much was a baaz’s price, when salaries were in annas and few rupees:“The baaz (female goshawk) is the most highly esteemed bird of prey in India and a trained bird used to be sold for a large sum in former days...for prices varying from ₹20-50 and ₹10-30 for the male (known as Zurrah)”, wrote the ‘father of Indian ornithology’,TC Jerdon, in The Birds of India, Volume 1, 1862.“The Shahbaaz is an expensive bird...sometimes costing as much as a (sum) fully equal to £200 in England,” wrote Victorian explorer Sir Richard Burton in his 1852 work, Falconry in the Valley of Indus.“Every Indian prince in whose state falconry still survives does not consider his menage complete without a goshawk, and it is the zenith of every Indian falconer’s ambition to possess a goshawk... ₹150-200 being paid for a young female (baaz) a few days after it has been captured,” wrote CH Donald in his 1920 work, The Birds of Prey of the Punjab.“An American soldier wanted to purchase a goshawk from the famous Amritsar mandi for raptors in 1941-’42. He later wrote in a magazine about his failure to purchase the Rajahs’ bird. This was because the goshawk was available for a princely sum of ₹300 then and was being eyed by the ‘baazdars’ sent to the mandi by the kings with bursting purses. In contrast, a Peregrine falcon was available for ₹5-15 at the mandi then,” recalled Sarfrazuddin Malik, an accomplished falconer who flew raptors in California before returning home to imbibe the art from the royal falconers of Bhavnagar, Gujarat. However, a graded change in the goshawk’s fortunes came about when Punjab adopted the goshawk as the State Bird in 1989 and the species was dusted from layers of archival ignominy. Recorded as a sparse breeder in India and a very rare winter visitor to the plains, the goshawk’s rarefied status is set for a much-needed boost the coming week. Under the Government of India’s initiative to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has undertaken a series of activities under the banner of ‘Azadi ka amrit mahotsava’. The Ludhiana zoo has been tasked by the CZA to focus on the goshawk from November 29 to December 5 and undertake massive outreach activities to showcase the raptor regarded as a symbol of the Gurus and culturally embodying the valorous, martial spirit of the people. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-baaz-from-prince-to-pauper-101638054182283.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | When I missed mishap by an inch||‘The incident’ left me numb for several days after it happened. Each time I would sit down for some peace and quiet, ‘the incident’ would play itself in my head. It happened the day, I drove down to my daughter’s school and parked a little ahead the front gate. As per routine, the nanny takes about five to 10 minutes to go get my daughter from class and accompany her back to the car. However, that day she was out in no time and I could see both of them walking down towards the car in the rear-view mirror. So, I did not shift the gear to parking mode. And that was it! That’s when it all happened…The nanny was settling down my daughter in the car and I had my face turned towards both of them. The moment they settled in and I turned my face in front while lifting the brakes; a man and his son were passing right in front of my car. It shudder to think that in that moment I could have rolled over them for my car had promptly drifted forward.God was kind that day, and the petrified father and his cute son, who had no idea what could just have happened, were saved, because I applied the brake in the nick of time. However, for a few seconds after that, I could only shake my head stupidly. Onlookers may have seen me mumbling sorry from behind my face mask, and perhaps the father could have taken my head shake, as either aggression or simply a “gone-nuts” case. I politely gestured them to take their time and cross the road. The father thankfully nodded when he passed by and I was still stupidly shaking my head. Anyway, I drove back home at the speed of 20km per hour that day much to the nanny’s irritation.It was a simple human error. It might have happened to many. Yet, I could not stop thinking or over thinking about what went wrong because with due humility I say I am a good driver despite my gender (sarcasm intended). It was a simple pick and drop your kid from the school task and yet my reflexes were not square enough. I scrolled through doctor Google and came across a recent published study that said that over the years with upgrade of technology, especially the internet, our attention spans have greatly reduced. We have become more absent minded than ever before, losing touch with the subtleties of life that bring the real joy because everything is getting automated. No wonder, our generations have forgotten the art of knitting, the touch and feel of the slumbered brown paper of a Nietzsche book, the thrill of using manual four by fours. Surely, fancy technologies in our daily lives are altering our behaviour pattern, our instincts and reflexes. Or perhaps, I should stop over thinking altogether because “there no zebra crossing” as my father opined. harleen.gurunay.majithia@gmail.comThe writer is a freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-when-i-missed-mishap-by-an-inch-101638054000274.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Salubrious Sunday | The picturesque tree with gigantic leaves||While in the hill town of Mahabaleshwar, a tree with gigantic leaves, around two to three times the size of my palm, caught my eye. Marvelling at nature’s exquisite composition, I took a couple of photographs to share with parents and friends, who like me are ardent nature lovers, and walked on. The next day, I again watched the sun play peek-a-boo through the gaps in the trees branches, and its dark green foliage. Again, I captured a few picturesque sun and shadow photographs and felt enriched. On the third day, I decided to climb down the hill to see the exquisite tree bottom-up. I wanted to explore a little more to catch a glimpse of its bark and base – the woody portion that lay hidden from the regular view. And what I saw left me open-mouthed. There were fruits sticking out of its trunk! Some grew in bunches of three and four, and a couple of them in isolation. And they were fairly recognisable – I heard myself say aloud, “Oh! So that’s how figs grow!!” This was the first time I had seen the deliciously supple and seedy anjeer growing on a tree as opposed to the plucked anjeer laid out on a fruits seller’s cart in the bustling streets of Mumbai. The sight left me thrilled for two reasons. One, of course, it was educative to see the fig tree. I could visualise the journey of the semi-ripe brown fruit to the sweet, red, dried pulp we spoon out of fig jam bottles. And two, well, had I not shown the interest and inclination to know the tree a bit better, would I have ever discovered that it was a fig tree? No. And that was despite the fruits popping out of it in bundles, and waving to us, “Hey there! We’re figs!” What if I had not made the effort to go a little further, step down the hill a bit more, and see the tree in its entirety? What if I hadn’t cared to look beyond the gigantic green leaves? Well, I would have returned from Mahabaleshwar with green eyes, yes, but ignorant nevertheless.As is the case usually, the experience made me reflect a bit about life, particularly how little we understand the people we meet, those we spend time with, cross in the garden and say good morning, purchase groceries from, and even our colleagues and domestic help. People, whom we are sometimes quick to judge. People we think we know, but probably we do not. We might cross the tree with gigantic leaves every day, we might smile at its lovely greens, we might even become more than acquaintances and take pictures together, and yet, we may never really know it was a fig tree.anushasingh3@gmail.com(Anusha Singh is a Mumbai-based corporate communications consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/salubrious-sunday-the-picturesque-tree-with-gigantic-leaves-101638053040175.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column| Last hurrah to the Battle of Longewala||Last week, I received a call from an unknown number. It was a major calling from the golden city of Jaisalmer. He wanted my postal address to invite me for the golden jubilee celebrations of the Battle of Longewala. I was pleasantly surprised, as I had not expected that the jubilee would be marked amid the pandemic. The invitation card has arrived and apart from a day of sightseeing, the main event will be a visit to Longewala where a museum and war memorial have been established. There would be wreath laying ceremony, followed by a half-an-hour re-enactment of the battle. My wife and I , will go, of course, because this might well be my last hurrah as I stand at the spot where I was flying in my small unarmed aircraft as all hell was breaking loose down below in the raging battle field.I also plan to take my son and his family, who will soon be here for a visit from the USA, to the site. Hopefully, the authorities will permit them to see the function and not consider them a security risk. However, if they are not permitted to attend, they can do the tourist circuit, while we do the official one.Earning my spurs I am already feeling nostalgic about visiting the place where I earned my spurs in a short but violent battle that took place on December 5, 1971. I cannot help remember my late flight commander Major Atma Singh, who was called Atom, by his mates. Atom was the first officer commanding of our 12 Air OP Flight that was raised in August 1970. Merely a year and a few months later we went into combat under his leadership. Atom was a simple and down-to-Earth man who believed in pure soldiering. Very different from the rest of the bunch we had there!When the battle is being enacted, I am sure that I would not feel the same as the real battle when a couple of dozen Pakistani tanks were milling around in the Longewala Bowl as the Indian Air Force Hunter aircraft tore into them with their rockets. I would be looking around to see the sand dunes, through which I flew my small plane, keeping an eye on the enemy tanks and directing the Hunter Aircraft onto them. The helipad, which was only 100m long, will catch my attention, because it was here that Atom executed a masterful precautionary landing of his engine-stricken aircraft. He not only saved the aircraft, but also flew it back the next day after repairs, from the narrow road next door. I would certainly look southward and see the sand dune where squadron leader Suresh had a miraculous escape when the tail plane of his Hunter Aircraft hit the dune during a late pull up. The official function would probably wind down, but not my thoughts.After the official function, we plan to drive north to Tanot where the divisional headquarters was located in 1971. After paying obeisance at the Tanot Mata Temple, we plan to head back to Jaisalmer touching Ranau from where we operated during the war. There is an abandoned cemented airstrip there exactly from where we operated on perforated metal sheets that stabilised the loose sand. Standing on that strip, I will remember the first trial landing that Atom and I did on an unprepared surface. It took three attempts before we managed to put the aircraft down safely. Tough place to operate from!Day-long air operations I will remember the day-long air operations that our pilots executed in support of the battle raging at Longewala. Finally, I will remember how our day ended after the last landing, just before sunset. The lovely two hours of de-stressing that we managed to do away from the disapproving eye of Atom. It involved some rum shots and some teen patti in our dug-down tent. I will remember all the participants: Charlie Maitra, Dabbu Mathur, Nat, Bhim Khemani and the IAF bloke CP Naidu, who was the flight adjutant. Not to forget Ramesh, our mess waiter, who took good care of us.That would complete our pilgrimage to the battle field of 1971. As we head back to our hotel in Jaisalmer after a two-hour drive, there will be one thought in my mind. Is this my last hurrah? A final visit to the battlefield where I delivered what I had been trained for. A fulfilment of a soldier’s contract! Well, you never know. I might make it here one more time, if somebody just asks me to come along!bullysangha@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based defence veteran and Vir Chakra awardee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-last-hurrah-to-the-battle-of-longewala-101638052861077.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Charging ₹4 for carry bag costs supermarket dear||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has asked the Easyday supermarket in Rishi Nagar to refund ₹4, which they had charged the complainant for a carry bag, and pay ₹1,000 as compensation. In his complaint, Manu Kumar of Rishi Nagar, had accused Easyday of “unfair trade practices” and “deficiency in service.” On May 15, 2019, Kumar had purchased three articles from the outlet, which cost ₹120. However, the respondent, Easyday, charged him ₹4 for a carry bag that he never asked for. The complainant sought a refund, ₹15,000 compensation, and ₹15,000 as litigation expense. The respondent resisted the same and sought dismissal of he complaint contending that the complainant was informed at the cashier’s counter that in the event of him asking for a new carry bag for purchases from the store, he would have to pay ₹4, as the practice encouraged customers to bring their own bags, and reduced plastic waste. “The complainant has made a false plea that the price of the carry bag was added to the price of the articles purchased by him without his consent,” said the respondent.The commission observed, “The complainant was made to pay a sum of ₹4 towards the cost of the bag after he had collected the goods for purchase, which could not be otherwise carried without a carry bag. It was not brought to the notice of the complainant by way of a prominent notice at the entrance or elsewhere in the store that he would have to pay the additional cost of the carry bag. Therefore, this amounts to unfair trade practice on the part of the opposite party”.The commission pronounced that Easyday shall pay back ₹4 to the complainant along with 6% per annum interset from the date of filing the complaint till the date of actual payment. “It shall further pay a sum of ₹1,000 as composite cost to the complainant”, reads the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-charging-4-for-carry-bag-costs-supermarket-dear-101638052320120.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Transport workers’ stir from Nov 30 if cabinet fails to commit regular jobs||Staging a protest seeking regular jobs, Punbus and PRTC contractual employees’ union members on Saturday announced to go on an indefinite strike from November 30, if the state government fails to take a decision in their favour in the cabinet meeting scheduled for November 29. The protesting employees said the state government had only been assuring to regularise their jobs but no concrete steps were taken. They said hollow promises were being made to woo the voters ahead of the assembly elections. The employees rued that during the last meeting held with transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on November 22, the union members were assured that the cabinet will approve the resolution to regularise the employees. Union leaders Satnam Singh and Shamsher Singh said protests on Saturday were held at all the 27 depots of the state to make the government remember its promise made to the employees. “If the government fails to regularise the employees in the November 29 cabinet meeting, we will go on indefinite strike from November 30,” the leaders said. “The employees have been protesting for long even as the Congress had made a pre-poll promise in the last assembly elections to regularise the employees in the very first cabinet meeting, if the party is voted to power,” said Shamsher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-transport-workers-stir-from-nov-30-if-cabinet-fails-to-commit-regular-jobs-101638052020126.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress councillor, LIT chairman lock horns over regularisation of flat allotment under OTS policy||Congress councillor representing ward number 68, Baljinder Singh Bunty and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam have locked horns over an application to regularise the allotment of a flat under One Time Settlement (OTS) policy floated by the local bodies department recently.Both the leaders also entered into a heated argument when Bunty visited the LIT chairman’s office in Feroze Gandhi market on Friday.Bunty, later on Saturday, claimed that Balasubramaniam was going against the local bodies department’s November 11 notification by adopting a pick-and-choose policy in regularising cancelled properties. He said that cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has been apprised of the issue.The local bodies department’s OTS policy for regularisation of cancelled allotments of plots/properties in the area falling under the jurisdiction of Improvement Trusts across the state provided certain benefits that can be availed by the residents who still have the possession of the cancelled properties. To do so, the allottees would have to apply and make full payment of pending dues along with interest, penalty and deemed restoration charges by December 31, 2021.Balasubramaniam refuted the allegations, saying, “The allotment of that particular flat cannot be regularised under the policy as there are anomalies in the allotment of the flat. It was made clear to the councillor. But he claimed that the allotment can be regularised and started misbehaving. The rules are clear and that allotment cannot be regularised. I have also apprised minister Ashu of the entire episode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-councillor-lit-chairman-lock-horns-over-regularisation-of-flat-allotment-under-ots-policy-101638051780414.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||‘For the first time, we are telling students to dream of a business’: Sisodia||Ahead of the Delhi government’s launch of an eight-episode TV programme featuring its ambitious Business Blasters scheme, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia spoke to HT’s Sadia Akhtar. Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said some of the promising ideas that had come up as part of the Business Blaster initiative will be televised. As part of the programme, students in class 11 and 12 will be mentored and provided financial capital of ₹2,000 as seed money to help kick-start their business ideas. Edited excerpts:In schools, entrepreneurship is usually restricted to theory or business studies. What is the motivation behind initiating something like this in schools?Through the Business Blasters programme, we are offering a full-fledged option to students to pursue a career in business. In our society, students are primed to pursue jobs. They are not encouraged to harbour dreams of starting their own company or business or innovation. We are introducing this dream to students for the first time, and I believe it is being done at the right age. By the time students enter college, they are too conditioned to pursuing jobs their seniors have been doing. Changing the mindset at that stage, within three years, is tough. This is why we began the entrepreneurship mindset curriculum in school.How will the government ensure that the projects students work on with the seed money will not come to a halt after school?Delhi government schools have around 350,000 students in classes 11 and 12. We asked them for business ideas and received around 51,000 ideas. Among these, some will fail. Some students may succeed, but might not be inclined to pursue their ideas further and could choose something else in life. The third set of students will be those who succeed. They will be progressive and innovative and will create jobs. These ideas will be taken to the last stage in February, when we will connect investors with the 10 best ideas. We will give direct admission to the top 100 students into institutions such as Delhi Technological University.Will we see stakeholders from the industry mentoring students?Yes, it is already happening. We have asked schools to engage local entrepreneurs and create a panel. At the second stage, as students go to the district and state levels, we will attach business coaches with them. MBA students or others in higher education could serve as coaches. Lastly, investors are aware they are dealing with school students and will coach them.Do you think students might struggle to juggle the demands of the project along with other academic requirements?We are seeking no-objection certificates from parents. Parents are largely in agreement.I have also asked children and they say their studies are unaffected since the programme has energised them and opened up their minds, which will help them focus better.While schools reopened after 19 months, the uncertainty due to Covid-19 has not abated. Has the state considered a response that will allow learning to continue without disruptions?We all have to be prepared but no one knows what needs to be done. The pandemic compelled us to take online exams, prepare results based on past assessments and rethink schooling. Taking a cue from these developments, we are bringing a new online school that we announced in the budget last year. Online education cannot be just limited to a technical shift of the classroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-the-first-time-we-are-telling-students-to-dream-of-a-business-101638051085076.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Firefighters risk life and limb, while safety suits sit smart in safe||The firesafety and proximity suits purchased for the fire department under the Smart City Mission are still lying pristine in the boxes they came in, while firefighters continue to take on flames without adequate gear. The delay in putting the suits to use almost cost a firefighter his life at a burning textile unit in Phase 7 of the Focal Point Area on Friday. The firefighter, Dharamjot, who was dousing flames without a fire safety suit, suffered burn injuries on face and leg, and was rushed to a private hospital. Four firefighters had also been injured and suffered burn injuries while dousing the flames in May 2017. Around two months have elapsed since aluminium firesafety suits were handed over to the department in presence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu in September, and 15 proximity fire safety suits were purchased for the department the very next month. However, the suits have been carefully kept in a store, and have not yet been distributed among firefighters, who put their lives at risk while dousing flames without any safety. Incidentally, firefighters have been demanding fire safety suits for a long time.An official, requesting anonymity, said the firefighters are not used to wearing the safety suits as they have been working without them for a long time. “They find it difficult to work in the suits. Besides, they are be worn only in an emergency, when firefighters have to enter a building or rescue trapped persons. However, things will get streamlined, if the suits are handed over to the firefighters. There are five fire stations in the city and the suits should be equally distributed among them.” There are not enough safety suits for the firefighters. Only 15 safety suits have been purchased against around 100 leading firefighters, and drivers in the fire brigade. The department says more suits will be purchased. “Storing the expensive suits at the fire department is not easy as they can easily get damaged if not handled properly,” said the official. Meanwhile, assistant divisional fire officer, Swarn Chand, said fire safety suits are available for firefighters at the fire brigade headquarters near railway station and they can be worn in an emergency. More suits are being purchased by the department, which will be distributed among the firefighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-firefighters-risk-life-and-limb-while-safety-suits-sit-smart-in-safe-101638050760011.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 4 days on, missing teens found in Dehradun||Four days after two schoolchildren went missing, they were traced to Dehradun on Saturday. The boys, aged 14 and 13, both residents of Baba Namdev Colony had gone missing on November 23. They were studying in the seventh grade at a private school. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, east) Davinder Chaudhary said the boys’ parents had lodged a complaint at the Tibba police station after they did not return home. The mother of the 14-year-old said that when her son did not return home till 4pm, she contacted the school staff, who told her that her son had not come to school that day, and another child of the same class had gone missing as well. The families suspected that someone had confined the teenagers, after which the police lodged an FIR under Section 346 ( wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.The police learnt that the children had been spotted at the Amritsar Railway station, but before the police could reach there they had already left and reached Dehradun, where an acquaintance identified the teenagers and informed the police. The boys told police that they wanted to travel so they stole ₹4,000 from their parents. They went to Amritsar and then went to Dehradun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-4-days-on-missing-teens-found-in-dehradun-101638050460339.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||8 days on, childless couple held for kidnapping ragpicker’s son in Ludhiana||Eight days after the son of a ragpicker was kidnapped, police on Saturday recovered the child and arrested a childless couple for the abduction. The accused, Juhi, 31, and her husband Avdhesh Kumar, 31, of Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, kidnapped the child to fulfil their desire to have a son. The accused were been living at a rented accommodation on Chuharpur Road and were arrested from a forest area in Lakhimpur Khiri near the Nepal border.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said this was the second marriage for Juhi, while it was the first marriage for Avdhesh. Juhi has a daughter from her first marriage, who lives with her grandmother. Juhi and Avdhesh, who married four years ago, but when they could not conceive, they decided to kidnap a child. The accused targeted Kanhaiya and his wife Rupa Devi as they were living in a shanty and had eight children. The couple carried out a recce before executing the crime. On November 14, the accused turned up at the grain market in a car and kidnapped the infant.The commissioner of police added that the police had formed separate teams to arrest the accused. “A car was captured in CCTVs. The police traced the owner of the car and questioned him. The owner of the car told the police that he had sold his vehicle to Avdhesh Kumar of Chuharpur, following which the police carried out a raid at their rented accommodation, but the couple was not there. The neighbours told police that Avdhesh and his wife had left the city on November 14, following which the police carried out raids in Lakhimpur Kheri for their arrest,”said the commissioner of police.A case has been registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 365 (kidnapping to confine a person) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-days-on-childless-couple-held-for-kidnapping-ragpicker-s-son-in-ludhiana-101638049921073.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Worst Nov for Delhi’s air: 11 ‘severe’ pollution days||November has been the cruellest month this year in Delhi, with 11 days showing severely polluted air on the monitors of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the highest since detailed records have been maintained by the pollution watchdog, with three days for the month still to go.On Saturday, the average air quality index again rose to severe levels (402) for the 11th day this month, breaking the record of 10 dangerous air days in November 2016, CPCB data showed. The alarming situation in 2016 had led to the administration declaring an air emergency and putting in place the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) in the National Capital Region (NCR), following directions of the Supreme Court.In 2020, Delhi saw nine severe days in November, and seven in 2019, historical data showed. In 2018, five severe air quality days were seen in Delhi, while this number was seven in 2017.Delhi has not seen a single day of moderate air quality this November.The air has been this poor likely because of the late withdrawal of monsoon and a delay in the burning of farm residue in north Indian states, experts said. The number of farm fires usually drops around the middle of the month, but has only just subsided this year.“We saw a slow start to the stubble fires this season. Usually by November, the farm fires in Punjab and Haryana start declining. But this time, in October there weren’t many fires, but by first week of November it started increasing,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment, a non-profit.The pollution peak, however, is largely because of local pollutants in Delhi-NCR, she pointed out.“Currently, the stubble fire share in Delhi’s PM2.5 levels [ultra fine particulate matter] is only about 2-6%, which means that the severe pollution levels that we are seeing now is a result of local pollution in all of Delhi-NCR,” she said.PM 2.5, or particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometres, can enter deep into the lungs and bloodstream, and cause serious health problems.“We need targeted action against local pollution sources, and measures will have to be implemented with greater vigour by agencies,” Roychowdhury said.While the number of severe air days was higher this year, the spells of continuous severe AQI days that last for over two days were for shorter durations, but were more recurrent.Delhi saw its first severe spell from November 5, a day after Diwali, to November 7. The next spell, which also lasted three days, continued from November 11 till November 13. The capital city and its neighbouring areas saw another severe air spell that started on November 25, and with Saturday’s AQI recording of 402, continued again for three days.Air pollution will continue to be dangerously high at least till November 29, the India Meteorological Department has predicted.Along with stubble fires, the local weather this month was also unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants, explained VK Soni, head of the weather bureau's environment and research centre. Delhi this month saw several days when slow and calm winds were recorded, he said.“While November generally is a bad month for pollution, this time we also saw slow and calm winds on many days,” Soni said. “The forecast says that improvement is unlikely before November 29-30. The pollution levels are likely to remain in the upper end of very poor category.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.A senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official said, “Keeping in mind the dangerous rise in pollution levels, we ordered a ban on construction in Delhi and this ban was later also put in place by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM). We also banned the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into Delhi and also ordered the closure of schools.”HT approached officials in the Union environment ministry and CAQM for comment on whether new measures will be taken to reduce severe air pollution levels, but they declined to comment and said measures are already being taken and that the Supreme Court was informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/worst-nov-for-delhi-s-air-11-severe-pollution-days-101638048719960.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL to revoke union leader’s transfer ordered on Manpreet Badal’s advice||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has told the high court that it will withdraw transfer order of a union leader effected after recommendation from Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. President, Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant Employees’ Federation, Bathinda, Gursewak Singh, was transferred on November 3 to Roopnagar. Singh was among 11 employees whose transfers were recommended by Badal on October 26 in a communication to the PSPCL. Gursewak had approached the high court on November 24 against the transfer order seeking quashing of the same and had also made Manpreet as party. On November 26, the petition was withdrawn as state’s advocate general DS Patwalia gave an undertaking that November 3 order in respect of the petitioner would be withdrawn. In court, it was argued that Badal had nothing to do with the PSPCL as he is not the minister in-charge. The only reason that finance minister has recommended his transfer is that he is MLA from Bathinda and the petitioner being a president of an employees’ association was raising voice against the policies of the state government and actions of the local MLA, it was submitted. It was also informed that as per transfer and placement policy of PSPCL officials, it is clearly mentioned that employees who are due to retire within the next one year may be allowed to continue at the same station. The petitioner retires on April 30, 2022, so therefore, he should not be transferred as per rule. Also, Roopnagar plant to where he is being transferred is not working at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-to-revoke-union-leader-s-transfer-ordered-on-manpreet-badal-s-advice-101638044459696.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Man in woman’s garb shoots at 2 men in Khanna||A man dressed as a woman opened fire at two men near Alaur village, Khanna, on Friday. The unidentified accused, who was riding a scooter, fled after the incident. The victims, Rohtash Kumar of Mandi Gobindgarh and Major Singh, who both work at Hindustan Unilever Limited, have been rushed to the hospital, where their condition is said to be stable.Rohtash Kumar said that after finishing up for the day, he took a lift from his colleague Major Singh, who rides a motorcycle. They stopped by the roadside near Alaur village for tea, when a bike-borne man in women’s clothes opened fire on them. The accused fired five bullets, which hit Major Singh in the stomach and legs, and Rohtash in both legs. The victims said the accused crossed them thrice, while they were having tea before opening fire at them. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh said the victims say they have no rivalries, nor were they carrying any cash or valuables. The police suspect that a eunuch or transgender person could be behind the crime. Locals say that the area where the incident took place is infamous for flesh trade. Transgenders are active in the areas and often woo truck drivers. Locals say they avoid crossing the area after sunset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-in-woman-s-garb-shoots-at-2-men-in-khanna-101638043619458.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dhakoli youth killed, friend injured in accident near Panchkula||Out for a walk in wee hours, a 21-year-old youth was killed while his friend sustained injuries after being hit by an unidentified vehicle at Dhakoli, police said on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Amit Simar, who lived in Dhakoli’s Krishna Enclave. His friend Rahul, 24, who is hospitalised with a fractured leg, is from Sector 19, Panchkula. Rahul told police that he had left home around 4 am and met his friend Amit on the way. They were going for a morning walk towards Panchkula, when a speeding vehicle hit them from the rear on the bridge near Mamta Enclave in Dhakoli. Passersby rushed them to a private hospital, where Amit was declared brought dead. On Rahul’s statement, police have registered a case under Section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The investigating officials said they are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to identify and trace the accused driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhakoli-youth-killed-friend-injured-in-accident-near-panchkula-101638043321879.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: School bus operators demand tax waiver||Even as the UT administration has allowed all private and government schools to start physical classes from primary classes onwards and the attendance has started increasing, school buses are still missing from roads. School bus operators say that they are reeling under losses caused by the Covid-induced lockdown and will be unable to run buses till the administration waives off their tax payments for the lockdown period.Chandigarh School Bus Operators Welfare Association general secretary Jiwan Rattan Sharma said, “Our buses were grounded throughout the lockdown and many of them need to be serviced and repaired. The administration is not giving us any subsidy for this, instead of asking us to pay road tax for a period when these vehicles weren’t functional.”He said though many schools were asking them to resume the bus service, they couldn’t start unless the administration gives them relief. “We demand an exemption from January 2021 to March 2022 and an extension in the life span of school buses to account for the two-year period for which they were not used,” Sharma added.Meanwhile, schools have also reported a higher percentage of parents who are opting for school buses. Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, has three out of 13 buses running. “The response has been feasible and from December 1 onwards, we plan to run six of the total 13 buses. However, it is still too soon to start plying all buses,” Atul Khanna, director, Strawberry Fields High School, said.Similarly, Vivek High School, Sector 38, has also been running six buses for around 130 students. Chairman of the school HS Mamik said the attendance in junior classes had gone over 90% and the schools themselves were subsidising bus travel to aid transporters.Principal of St John’s High School, Sector 26, Kavita Das added, “With exams going on right now, we aren’t running school buses yet, but we are working on starting them once exams get over.” She added that with buses completely on a standstill since March 2020, it would take significant investment to get them started, but this is what parents are demanding with attendance going over 50% for offline classes here.Parents are also demanding that the bus service be resumed. Many of them are unable to send their children to school because the buses aren’t plying yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-school-bus-operators-demand-tax-waiver-101638043320696.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Struggle for statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will continue: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday said the Valley has gone 200 to 300 years back as people can’t speak their minds for fear arrest.Azad, who along with senior Congress leaders, addressed a gathering in south Kashmir where he criticised the revocation of Article 370 by the BJP government in 2019 and said the struggle for statehood will continue.“People can’t speak. If they speak, they’ll face the jail. They can’t walk freely because somebody will get them killed. Many innocent people were killed.”Referring to the revoking of Article 370, Azad said nobody could have imagined that J&K will be divided into two parts. “The state that is known across the world and discussed in the United Nations and many other countries was downgraded. Usually UTs are upgraded to states and here the state was downgraded its just like a DGP being downgraded to the rank of SHO or chief minister being reduced to an MLA.”“Our struggle will go on till everything is restored,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/struggle-for-statehood-of-jammu-and-kashmir-will-continue-ghulam-nabi-azad-101638043319704.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Psychology student sets up mental health café in Mohali||In order to break the stigma attached to mental health and encourage people to talk more about mental health issues, Chandigarh-based entrepreneur Angel D’Souza, 21, recently opened the tricity’s first mental health café, Your Sugar Daddy, in Phase 2, Mohali. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Angel, who is pursuing psychology at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, conceptualised the idea of providing a warm and welcoming space for customers to talk about mental health issues over a cup of coffee. Visitors are provided mindfulness colouring sheets as a part of art therapy besides colour games, adapted from the Stroop effect, a personality test game, and a game of dares where a customer talks to another sitting on the table beside him/her. When AAP leader Sisodia kept aam aadmi waiting The aam aadmi of Chandigarh waited patiently for Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia at an AAP event at CII building last week. “We were invited at 5pm, but Sisodia showed up around 7pm. Most of us waited because we know the aam aadmi has to wait for big leaders,” said a local resident. The AAP had invited residents from different walks of life to give their inputs for the party’s manifesto for the December 24 municipal corporation elections. For local journalists, who were asked stay out of the event room, the wait of two-and-a-half hours remained fruitless as Sisodia didn’t take questions on the Chandigarh municipal elections. In hurry to take credit, UT cops jump the gun The credit war between different wings of Chandigarh Police came to the fore last week when a unit, based on “a selective leak”, arrested the suspect who fired at the police in Industrial Area, leaving a home guard volunteer injured. In the hurry to take credit, the police team involved in the questioning of the suspect did not carry out proper verification and identification of the accused. Its claims fell flat as the victim failed to identify the suspect and he was released following a habeas corpus writ in the high court. In the “selective leak”, the police even said that the detained suspect has two cases of snatching against him and the weapon used in the crime has been recovered. Cop drives home point on patriarchal mindset A cop posted near the barricade at Elante Mall stopped a car the other day to challan a young couple as they were not wearing masks. Realising they were newlyweds, he congratulated the couple and let them go but not without a piece of advice, “Sir, shaadi toh mubarak ho, lekin gaadi aap chalaaya karo (Congratulations on your wedding, but sir you should be driving the car and not ma’am).” Patriarchy sure is deep-rooted. Sorry, no western culture, we’re Indian During the inspection of the Chandigarh railway station by passenger services committee (PSC) chairman Ramesh Chandra Ratn on Friday, a book stall seller was told to take down two magazines for their being “inappropriate and against Indian culture”. When some people objected as both magazines are from reputed publications, Ratn said, “I’m not against western culture, but I have to keep a check on material that can corrupt the minds of youngsters.” MC elections: Three aces up the sleeve of RWAs With the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections coming up next month, the president of the Modern Housing Complex (MHC) Residents Welfare Association (RWA) has made a video for voters regarding the three aces that RWAs and people hold. “Just as in a card game, whoever holds three aces wins. Whoever you vote for, remember these three traits: The candidate’s ability, availability and assertiveness,” the RWA president said, adding keep political affiliations aside and vote for candidates based on their performance. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal and Rajanbir Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-psychology-student-sets-up-mental-health-caf-in-mohali-101638043271915.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU colleges can call students back as per Covid guidelines||Panjab University (PU) has told its affiliated and constituent colleges that they may invite students, both national and international, as per the prevailing guidelines and protocols issued by the Central and state governments for the current session.An official communication was recently issued by the university to the heads of affiliated and constituent colleges of the university. According to the communication issued to colleges, various representations were received by the university from colleges and students regarding the mode of teaching for the current session.“The competent authority after considering various representations of colleges and students on the mode of teaching for the current session has decided that colleges may invite students for teaching (national and international) as per the prevailing guidelines and SOPs of Covid-19 issued by the Central and state governments for the academic session 2021-22,” reads the communication issued to colleges.It also states that the directions issued by the respective higher education department from time to time will also be followed for the current session. Meanwhile, the university is yet to take any decision for the further reopening of the campus (Chandigarh) for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-colleges-can-call-students-back-as-per-covid-guidelines-101638043270743.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab MLA Hostel: Protesting teacher climbs atop mobile tower||Protesting against being put on probation and subsequent salary cut, an elementary teacher from Barnala on Saturday climbed atop a mobile tower at the Punjab MLA Hostel in Sector 4, Chandigarh, and threatened to immolate himself. According to police, Swarn Singh — an ETT (elementary teacher training) qualified teacher posted at a primary school in Barnala’s Badri area — managed to climb up the tower around 4 am. He was first spotted by the staff of the MLA hostel. Police and fire tenders were rushed to the spot. However, when efforts were made to remove him, the protester pour some petrol on himself and threatened to self-immolate. The protester said that he was recruited as a teacher along with around 6,700 ETT-qualified people during the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) regime in 2016. However, when the Congress came to power, he was put on probation in 2018 and his salary was reduced from ₹65,000 to ₹25,000. He is demanding that his file seeking regularisation and restoration of old salary, which is pending with the education department, be cleared immediately. The teacher was still sitting atop the tower till the filing of this report late in the evening. Among others, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia reached out to Swarn Singh. Badal reportedly also talked to Punjab education minister Pargat Singh on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-mla-hostel-protesting-teacher-climbs-atop-mobile-tower-101638043269644.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association signs pact with Portuguese coach||Giving a push to improve the quality of tennis training in the region, the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) on Saturday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Marco Seruca, a coach from Portugal and former Davis Cupper. The MoU (initially for 1-year extendable further by 4-years) was signed between Megh Raj, chief operating officer, CLTA, and Marco Seruca at the conference room of the CLTA Tennis Stadium, Sector 10, Chandigarh. Javier Sansierra, honorary international adviser, International Tennis Federation /Association of Tennis Professionals international official (Madrid, Spain), was also present during the signing.Under the protocol, the training and coaching systems at the CLTA will receive a big boost. A high-performance centre of international standards will be set up at the CLTA to upgrade training facilities, improve the coaching standards and familiarise trainees with the latest skills. This will be beneficial as trainees will be exposed to top-class techniques in Chandigarh, stated a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-lawn-tennis-association-signs-pact-with-portuguese-coach-101638043268395.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Anil Vij vocal on Pak, but mum on poor health services in state: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party’s state spokesperson Lovleen Tuteja on Saturday said state home minister Anil Vij actively speaks on Pakistan and other national issues but remains mum on poor health services in his state.“There are fewer doctors in government hospitals, but Vij remains silent on health issues. The unruly government framework is at its high and several posts in the police department are vacant. Out of 144 posts of IPS officers, only 109 are filled in the state,” Tuteja said at a press conference in the Ambala Cantonment.The party leader also alleged that the state government is selling jobs and paper leaks had increased during the seven-year rule of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.“Along the lines of farmers’ agitation, the party will also develop a framework for the ouster of the Khattar government from Haryana,” the spokesperson added. Photo: Lovleen Tuteja (in party cap) with district president Gurcharan Singh (on his left), organisation general secretary Gagandeep Kapoor (on his right) and others at a press conference in the Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anil-vij-vocal-on-pak-but-mum-on-poor-health-services-in-state-aap-101638043266022.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Tribunal awards ₹24 lakh relief to kin of road accident victim||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, awarded a compensation of over ₹24 lakh to the family of a security guard with the GMCH-32 as she lost her life in a road accident.Uday Raj and his three children from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh, filed a complaint against a bus driver, Harpreet Singh from Patiala, and owner of the vehicle M/s RK Bus Service and the insurer of the vehicle, Oriental Insurance, Chandigarh.Deceased Renu was 29 years old and working as a security guard at the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and earning ₹15,000 per month.On August 11, 2018, Renu was riding the pillion while her husband Uday Raj was driving a motorcycle. When they reached near a flyover of Nakia village, a bus bearing Punjab number hit their motorcycle. The couple fell on the road, whereas Renu was crushed under the wheels of the bus.In the tribunal, the bus driver pleaded that he was never rash or negligent while driving the vehicle. M/s RK Bus Service responded that no accident, as alleged, took place between the motorcycle and the bus and a false FIR had been registered.The insurer objected that the bus was not having a valid fitness certificate and permit at the time of the alleged accident. The present claim petition has been filed by the claimants in collusion with the driver and M/s RK Bus Service by concealing material facts.The tribunal awarded compensation of ₹24.26 lakh to the family of the deceased. It observed that the liability to make payment of the compensation to the claimants is several and joint of all respondents.The tribunal observed: “The claimants are awarded 24.26 lakh along with interest @ 7.5% per annum from the date of filing of the petition till realisation as compensation payable by respondents 1, 2 and 3 whose liability shall be joint as well as several.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tribunal-awards-24-lakh-relief-to-kin-of-road-accident-victim-101638043263608.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: A mix of urban, rural woes in Ward 21||Regularisation of need-based changes, stray cattle menace, poorly maintained roads and general sanitation are on top of the agenda for voters in Ward No. 21 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation this election. After the fresh delimitation, the ward comprises a mix of urban, semi-urban and rural localities with voters having their own area-specific needs and aspirations. In Sector 47, residents are hoping to get the solution to their long-term demand of regularisation of need-based changes, stray cattle menace and encroachments in markets. For the voters in the semi-urban/rural areas — Bair Majra, Faidan and Char Taraf — the issues revolve around better roads, sewerage system and sanitation issues. Previously, Sector 47 was in Ward No. 22, represented by BJP councillor Davesh Moudgil. The semi-urban and rural parts were in Ward No. 23, also having a BJP councilor, Bharat Kumar. More than 80% of the ward’s voters are in Sector 47, and another major chunk in Faidan village. In Sector 47, which mainly has Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats, Nirmal Dutt, a resident, says: “There should be an immediate acceptance of the Delhi model for allowing need-based changes in CHB allotments. We want our area representative to support us in this endeavour.” Like in the rest of the city, residents here also complain of stray dog menace. “The stray dog problem has worsened in past few years. Dogs have terrorised senior citizens and children. Even after repeated complaints, the MC authorities remain oblivious to the problem.” In addition to stray dogs, the area residents also have to face stray cattle menace. “From evening to late night, every day, the area is full of stray cattle. People from nearby villages leave their cattle to roam on the streets. The MC officials turn a blind eye to it and the residents are left harassed. It even leads to accidents,” said Jyoti Swaroop Bhardwaj, a Sector 47 resident. Meanwhile, a visit to Faidan village indicates the vast difference in the basic infrastructure between the developed Sector 47 and its rural neighbourhood across Purv Marg. Most roads are in a bad shape, and sanitation is a big issue. “Some development works like the laying of sewerge pipelines have started only recently. The roads have improved, but it is still a big mess. Similarly, garbage is collected but dumped in a nearby choe. The streetlights also work only on paper. We hope after elections, this area gets proper attention,” says Balkar Saini, a Faidan resident and a public sector employee. Another resident, Santosh Kumar, working in a private factory, says, “While the population here is increasing at a fast pace, the availability of basic infrastructure is missing. MC officials don’t respond to our complaints at all.” KNOW YOUR WARD Localities: Sector 47, Bair Majra, Faidan and Chahar TarafGeneral Ward Voters: 12,000 KEY ISSUES Basic infra, sanitation and garbage in villages Need-based changes in CHB houses of Sector 47Stray cattle and dog menace LOCAL VOICESWe want our councillor to support us in our efforts to get Delhi model implemented for regularisation of need-based changes. Nirmal Dutt, 72, educationist, Sector 47Stray cattle roaming on roads is a big problem at night. Also, street vendors encroach upon the roads creating traffic bottlenecks. Jyoti Swaroop Bhardwaj, 47, resident, Sector 47The MC’s complaint system is in a dismal state. There is garbage lying on back lanes. Water pressure is also very poor. Sunita Sharma, 52, president, EWS RWA Skylark Association, Sector 47Stray dog menace is haunting the senior citizens and children. MC officials have turned a blind eye to this grave problem. Vijay Wahi, 70, retired government official, Sector 47||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarha-mix-of-urban-rural-woes-in-ward-21-101638043262180.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid victims’ kin to get ₹50,000 relief||The Chandigarh administration on Saturday announced ₹50,000 ex gratia assistance to each of the families of residents who died due to Covid-19. As many as 820 Chandigarh residents have succumbed to the virus since the outbreak in March last year.The decision has been taken in view of the Supreme Court’s order in a case involving compensation to families of Covid-19 victims. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will be disbursing the relief.“The claimant will have to submit their application through a form to the DDMA along with specified documents, including the death certificate certifying the cause of death. The authority will ensure that the process of the claim verification, sanction and the final disbursement of ex gratia payment is done through a robust and people-friendly procedure,” said a UT spokesperson. Panel formed to address grievances of applicantsThe administration has also constituted a grievance redressal committee, which will be headed by the joint commissioner, (medical officer of health), municipal corporation, Chandigarh, as the chairman. Its members include UT’s director, health service, and heads of medicine and pulmonary departments at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.The committee will look into the grievance raised by any person on issuance of certificate as prescribed by the ministry of health and family welfare and Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.Since the first case reported on March 18, 2021, Chandigarh’s tally has climbed to 65,443, as on Saturday. An 82-year-old woman who resided in Sector 18 was the first to succumb to the virus on May 3 last year. Bulk of the cases and deaths were recorded during the second wave that peaked in May this year. While 15,648 people got infected and 99 died in April, May accounted for 17,399 cases and 275 deaths. Since then, the number of cases and deaths fell sharply with a slight uptick seen recently, raising concerns of a third wave. Tricity’s daily tally drops to single digit after 6 daysAfter staying in double digits for six straight days, the tricity’s Covid-19 tally dropped to eight on Saturday. Chandigarh led with five new cases, followed by two in Panchkula and just one in Mohali. Last Saturday, the tricity had reported just five cases, including two in Chandigarh, but the daily tally had been rising since then, reaching 26 on Friday. On Thursday, Chandigarh had recorded nine cases, highest single-day tally in over four months while another eight cases surfaced on Friday. In view of the uptick, the UT administration on Friday also issued an advisory, asking residents to come forward for vaccination and follow strict Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, no death due to the virus has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula this month, though Mohali has recorded three so far. The tricity’s active caseload stands at 134, with Chandigarh leading with 52 patients, followed by 46 in Mohali and 36 in Panchkula.International returnees being monitored: UTMeanwhile, the UT administration on Saturday released a statement to share the surveillance activities being carried out for international returnees in view of the emergence of a new variant of concern, Omicron.“On their arrival, the passengers are categorised. Those passengers from high-risk countries (South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe) have to undergo RT-PCR testing on their arrival in India compulsorily and are quarantined for seven days,” stated the release. The administration added that all such returnees are again tested (RT-PCR) by the Chandigarh health department after eight days even if they have tested negative at the airport. The police department is also facilitating the health department in regularly monitoring high-risk returnees, as per guidelines for international arrivals given by the ministry of health and family welfare, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-covid-victims-kin-to-get-50-000-relief-101638043260865.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Another theft from parked car after smashing glass||Adding to a spree of similar crimes in Chandigarh this month, thieves fled with items kept in a car after smashing its rear windshield at the main market in Manimajra, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on November 25. Hari Om, who resides in Panchkula and runs a departmental store in Manimajra, told police that he had parked his car outside his shop. Later, he realised that someone had broken its rear windshield and stolen his laptop and wallet that was kept inside. A case has been registered under Sections 379 (theft) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Manimajra, Chandigarh. Eighth incident this monthThis is eighth such incident reported in the city in the past one month, according to FIRs assessed from different police stations. A Ropar resident, who had parked his car near Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, lost some cash and valuables in a similar manner on November 24. In another incident reported from Sector 26, an electricity department employee lost a bag containing ₹20,000 that was kept in his car parked near the engineering college on November 22. On November 14, a resident of Sector 39 reported the theft of a bag carrying ₹1.1 lakh, a diamond ring and important documents from her car parked near the Tibetan market in Sector 17. In all these cases, the miscreants had smashed the windowpanes to gain access to the items. Police have made no arrest in any of these cases yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhanother-theft-from-parked-car-after-smashing-glass-101638043259530.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Education must to get rid of joblessness: Haryana governor Dattatreya||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday said the only option to get rid of unemployment was education, not money. He was in Ambala Cantonment to attend “Manthan” School leadership summit-2021 by the National Independent School Alliance (NISA). While addressing the audience, he commended NISA for its contribution to school education during the pandemic. He also praised the New Education Policy, introduced by the Union government last year.“The policy encourages mother tongues that gives equal opportunities to rural students who can learn in their language and push through competition. It will also ensure that the students are given skill-based education right through primary and secondary level, which will make a job giver, not job seeker,” the governor said.He added that through the super-100 programme, the state government was also providing free education to students of economically weaker sections for competition exams and 26 of them have been selected in the IITs this year.Earlier, home minister Anil Vij inaugurated the NISA office on the Hill Road in the cantonment. Society’s president Kulbhushan Sharma thanked Vij, who also holds urban local bodies portfolio, for providing a rebate of one-year property tax to private schools amounting to ₹23.50 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/education-must-to-get-rid-of-joblessness-haryana-governor-dattatreya-101638043208087.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Temperature continues to fall in Chandigarh||The temperature continues to fall in the city as December draws near with the maximum temperature going down from 26.2 °C on Friday to 25.2 °C on Saturday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“The temperature is likely to fall down further in the coming days while dry weather is likely to continue,” said an IMD official. The minimum temperature went up from 9.2 °C on Friday which was the coldest in the season till now to 10.4 °C on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 25 °C while the minimum temperature will remain around 10 °C. MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYPanchkula man, parents booked for wife’s murder Three persons were booked in a murder case after a father alleged that his daughter was killed for dowry. An FIR was registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station, Panchkula. The case was registered on Saturday on the complaint of Sushil Kumar of Dhuri city, Sangrur, against Neelam Bansal, Shiv Kumar and their son Puneet Bansal of Sector 11, Panchkula. He stated in the FIR that his daughter was married in January 2012. Her in-laws used to harass her for dowry and many times they had thrown her out of the house. He said on November 26, he got a call from her in-laws who stated that their daughter had died by suicide. The father alleged that it was not suicide but her in-laws killed her.42 more infected with dengue in tricity As many as 42 fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Saturday, with Mohali reporting 23 cases alone. Thirteen cases surfaced in Chandigarh and six in Panchkula. After a peak of dengue infections in October, the fresh cases are now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature as the climate conditions are not suitable for Aedes mosquitoes to breed. No death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on Saturday. For this year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,902, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,466 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 889, with one death so far this year.Eatery owners booked for flouting normsPanchkula Police have booked two owners of Purple Frog, Sector 9, after the restaurant was found flouting Covid-19 norms and operating beyond the permissible time during checking around 2 am on Saturday. A patrolling team had gone to the eatery on getting a tip-off that hookah was being served there. Although no hookah was recovered, cops found over 50 people gathered there in a small place in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Its owners, Abhinav Bansal and Prabhat Saini, have been booked under relevant sections.Man found dead on train at railway stationA man, aged around 55-60 years, was found dead on Unchahar Express after it took a halt at the Chandigarh railway station on Saturday. “The man looks like a beggar and has the name Raj Kumar tattooed on his right arm and Sadhu on his left,” said the railway police, adding that the body was recovered from near the toilets on the train. Police suspect it to be a natural death. The postmortem will be conducted after keeping it in the mortuary for identification for 72 hours, they said.DAV College student Sarabjot shines in shootingAmbala’s Sarabjot Singh won the 10m Air Pistol Men’s competition in Delhi on Saturday, to be crowned the National Champion for the first time. A student of DAV College, Chandigarh, he was trailing behind his statemate Shiva Narwal by 0.5 points going into the final two shots of the 24-shot final at the 64th National Shooting Championship Competitions. He hit 10 and 10.5 to Shiva’s 10.1 and 9.3 to emerge victorious with 242.3 points.Ambala division awarded best in Northern Railways The Ambala Railway Division has been awarded the best division award for 2021 out of five divisions in the Northern Railways. It also won 17 individual shields and three joint shields by the Northern Railways at the 65th & 66th Railway Week event in New Delhi, DRM Gurinder Mohan Singh said on Saturday. “This also shows that we have utilised the pandemic crisis productively to complete major infrastructural and safety works,” Singh said in a statement.Bike-borne men snatch Mohali resident’s mobile phone Two motorcycle-borne men snatched the mobile phone of a resident of Phase 8, Mohali. In his complaint, Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Phase 8, Mohali, said at 8.20 pm on Friday the accused snatched his mobile phone in Phase 11, Mohali. They stopped Sanjay on the pretext of seeking direction. The accused assaulted him and took away his mobile phone. Acting on his complaint, a case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Phase 11 police station, Mohali. Decomposed body found from Dera Bassi nullah A decomposed body of a man was found from a nullah at Issapur village in Dera Bassi. The police on getting information fished out the body from the nullah. The body is decomposed beyond recognition. The police said they would keep the body for 72 hours in the mortuary of the civil hospital, Dera Bassi, for identification after which it would be cremated. The police were informed at 5 pm after villagers spotted the body in the nullah.Book released to promote Punjabi culture A book titled ‘vibrant colours of Punjab’ written by captain Narinder Singh IAS (retd) was released on Saturday at Law Bhawan, Chandigarh. Captain Narinder Singh IAS (retd) is a prolific writer, triple postgraduate, soldier, sportsman and known organiser of cultural events. His book vibrant Colours of Punjab’ deals with art, literature, culture, cinema and music. The book is a compilation of the myriad activities that the author has undertaken to promote the traditional Punjabi culture. The many social fibres of society like marriage, comedy, various contours of Punjabi cinema and music of Musarrat Nazir, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and other reputed singers have been adequately highlighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temperature-continues-to-fall-in-chandigarh-101638043205327.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU youth fest begins at Chandigarh college||A four-day 62nd youth and heritage festival, Panjab University (PU) for Chandigarh Zone-A was inaugurated on Saturday at Post Graduate Government College, Sector -46. The festival was inaugurated by Dr Nirmal Jaura, director, Youth Welfare, PU. The theme of the festival is “Love and respect nature”. More than two thousand students are participating in the festival in 61 categories. Jaura said the festival was the most-awaited event for the students. He said such festivals provide a platform for the students to learn and gain experiences that help in their holistic growth. The four-day fest aims to showcase the talent of the youth through a plethora of events. On the first day, various cultural and literary activities were organised in which teams from different colleges of the city participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-youth-fest-begins-at-chandigarh-college-101638043203549.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Omar demands Amir Magray’s body be handed over to his family||National Conference vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Saturday visited Famrote village of Gool in Ramban district to express sympathies with the family of Amir Magray, who was among those killed in the Hyderpora encounter.Omar said, “His father says that his son was innocent and I don’t doubt him. There were two others like Amir Magray, who were killed in the Hyderpora encounter but their families got their bodies. And, he (Amir’s father) can’t go to Kashmir for staging protest. He is here in a remote and hilly area.” The junior Abdullah said he had come to express his solidarity with the bereaved family. “Government probes take time. At least the government can hand over his body to the family and at the same time continue with its probe. At least family can perform his last rites, otherwise it would be too late for the family. And, if he was found guilty in the probe, the government can take his body back to Handwara and bury it there,” he added The government has ordered a magisterial probe in the Hyderpora encounter. DGP Dilbag Singh had said that four persons, including a Pakistani terrorist and three terror associates, were killed in the encounter. On assembly elections, Omar said, “Centre is ready to hold elections but the question should be asked to the UT administration whether it is ready. I am afraid, while PM and HM talk about holding elections in J&K, the UT administration is trying to sabotage them.” “Itne sare betaj badshah hain yahan (There are so many influential perons). They will never want the power to be transferred to the people. See what they did with Panchayats and local bodies… power has not been transferred to them as yet,” he added. Omar is currently on an eight-day visit to the Chenab Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omar-demands-amir-magray-s-body-be-handed-over-to-his-family-101638043139817.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||149 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir reported 149 fresh Covid-19 infections and three deaths in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday. Of the total cases, 119 were reported from Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 30 infections. All three fatalities were reported in the Kashmir division. Summer capital Srinagar had the highest number of cases at 42, followed by 23 cases in Baramulla and 19 in Budgam. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar also has the highest number of active cases at 596 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 363 and 136 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in Jammu and Kashmir was 141 with active positive cases reaching 1,724.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 37,732 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.651 crores.82 more infected with virus in HimachalDharamshala: Himachal Pradesh recorded 82 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,26,941 while the death toll reached 3,828 after three more patients died of the infection. The highest of 30 cases were reported from Kangra, 12 from Una, 11 from Hamirpur, 10 from Solan, seven from Shimla, five from Chamba, four from Mandi and three from Bilaspur. The active cases came down to 809 while the recoveries have reached 2,22,287 after 97 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/149-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101638043019602.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Government should pay ₹4 lakh each to kin of Covid victims: GA Mir||Ghulam Ahmad Mir, president of the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC), on Saturday sought compensation of ₹4 lakh each to the kin of Covid-19 victims in the UT. Addressing a press conference, he said, “On the directives and suggestions of Rahul Gandhi, states which have Congress governments and coalition governments with Congress have offered to contribute ₹1 lakh per person out of the fixed ₹4 lakh per person to the compensation amount.” The JKPCC chief urged the government to pay compensation to the families of every person, who died of Covid, including those who passed away in hospitals or at their homes, or on way to hospitals, or those who passed away waiting for medical assistance which they did not receive. Mir also said JKPCC will take up the issue with Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha via a memorandum and appeal to the J&K administration to identify the number of Covid deaths that occurred in the UT. He said the government acted with utter negligence and incompetence; and even after the end of first wave of the virus, the government was not prepared to cope with the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-should-pay-4-lakh-each-to-kin-of-covid-victims-ga-mir-101638042839896.html
28-11-2021||Other||Punjab deputy CM forms high-level panel to probe delay in investigation into drug cases||Jalandhar Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, has formed a high-level committee to probe the delay in handling of files related to cases related to drug smuggling racket in the state. The committee comprises chief secretary Anirudh Tewari; principal secretary (home) Anurag Verma and DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. The panel has been asked to submit its report in seven days. “According to the file, additional chief secretary (home) has written three times to the Special Task Force (STF) chief to carry forward investigation in the drug trafficking cases, as the government and Punjab and Haryana high court did not stop it from conducting a probe. It is reflected from the file that the STF ignored the letters of ACS (home); investigation into high-profile drug related cases has been not done under the plea of sealed reports pending with the high court,” reads the letter, that Randhawa had written to principal secretary (home) on October 28, asking him to identify officials/personnels responsible for the delay in taking drug trafficking cases to logical conclusion. The note for formation of a panel has now followed that letter. Randhawa, the MLA from Dera Baba Nanak (Gurdaspur), has directed the committee to explore four points. The first is that with sealed reports pending in the HC, is there any bar on the STF to conduct investigation. The second issue is on whether the STF can take up drug cases registered in Patiala and Fatehgarh districts. The third question the ministers wants answered is, “When the ACS (home) issued directions to the STF chief thrice, why was the direction not followed. In the last query, Randhawa writes that a petition on drug cases dating back to 2013, has been pending for several years; the state government, too, didn’t do a proper follow-up of the case in the high court after May 23, 2018. “Even the officer of the advocate general never filed an application. It has been observed that the case has been not properly dealt between 2018 and 2021 and intentionally delayed,” Randhawa has observed in his note. NEXT HEARING IN HC ON DECEMBER 6STF sources said that it will file a reply if the Punjab government asks it to, saying that previously too, they had filed factual replies. The Punjab and Haryana high court will take up the matter in the drugs cases on December 6; the Punjab government has submitted to the HC that it has no objection to opening sealed cover reports on drugs menace in the state, while alleging involvement of influential persons. Randhawa, who was in Kapurthala, on Saturday, to chair a meeting of representatives of farmer unions and sugar mills told HT, “The move to form the panel is meant to fix accountability of officials for delays in investigation indrugs case. Our government will again plead in the HC on December 6 for opening the sealed reports in the drugs case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-deputy-cm-forms-high-level-panel-to-probe-delay-in-investigation-into-drug-cases-101638042719449.html
28-11-2021||Other||{REPORT CARD} /SGPC PRESIDENT BIBI JAGIR KAUR Remained low-profile, tried to take everyone along||Amritsar With the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) set to elect its next president on November 29 (Monday), the incumbent Bibi Jagir Kaur, who took over when the gurdwara management body was facing a lot of bad press over missing saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib, has had a mixed bag of a tenure. She started with administrative reforms, and was lucky that the farmers’ stir over the three Central farm laws deflected attention from the missing saroops issue. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic hitting the SGPC’s finances, she continued charity work. The firmness that the four-time SGPC president showed during her previous tenures was missing to some extent this time. She could not restore the original Nanakshahi calendar, despite being its supporter. Observers claim this was due to pressure from the Sant Samaj that has ties with the SAD and demands the continuation of its amended version.‘Rose above political differences’Addressing the centenary event of Nankana Sahib massacre in Gurdaspur, she apologised to the community for the mistakes SGPC functionaries had committed in the past and appealed to other Sikh organisations to cooperate with it.Parampal Singh Sabhra, a leader of Alliance of Sikh Organisations, said, “If we evaluate her performance rising above political differences, she has announced the opening of the first Sikh Missionary College for Women at Tarn Taran. She allowed Sikh missionary institutions to speak from the stage of Sri Darbar Sahib, even as traditional Sikh seminaries and sects objected. She also ordered republishing of many precious books, which have been out of print for decades.”She tried to woo Sikh hardliners, staunch critics of the SAD that controls the apex gurdwara body, and avoided a clash on Operation Bluestar anniversary at the Akal Takht on June 6. She even endorsed the jathedar’s views on pro-Khalistan slogans, stating, “This is an expression of the Sikh youth’s ‘josh’ (vehemence). A community losing ‘josh’ is considered dead. We have no objection to it.” No restrictions were imposed on Sikh hardliners and splinter Akali groups, winning her the appreciation of the rival Sikh groups.Sikh radicals also hailed her move to put on display the holy bir of the Guru Granth Sahib that was hit with a bullet of the Indian Army at the Akal Takht. Instead of locking horns with Sikh bodies over the plan of razing the Golden Temple’s oldest serai, the Guru Ram Das Niwas, where the India Army, allegedly, committed atrocities on the devotees in its rooms, she put it on hold.She also announced the preservation of a heritage structure discovered on the premises of the Golden Temple during the construction of a building. Former Takht Damdama Sahib jathedar Giani Kewal Singh, who heads the Panthic Coordination Committee, said, “Bibi Jagir Kaur took some good steps, but these were at her own level. She should have brought the community together.”A section of Sikhs opposed her move of giving the Indian men’s hockey team with ₹1 crore for winning the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics. This did not go well with its employees as well; she appeased them with a salary hike. The Damdami Taksal criticised her on issues like the appointment of granthis of the Golden Temple. The Taksal wanted the granthis to be chosen from its students, while she said that recruitment must be open for students of modern missionary institutions as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reportcard-sgpc-president-bibi-jagir-kaur-remained-low-profile-tried-to-take-everyone-along-101638042359425.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Met predicts snowfall in Kashmir Valley in first week of December||With no let-up in the cold wave conditions in Kashmir, Met officials have predicted snowfall in the first week of December.For the past several days, the Valley has been reeling under an intense cold wave and many places witnessed freezing nights and foggy conditions during the day.Met officials said the weather remained cloudy in Kashmir and Ladakh whereas it remained clear to partly cloudy in most parts of Jammu region on Saturday. “Mainly dry weather is expected till December 3. As of today, light to moderate snowfall is expected between December 4 and 5,” said the official.Srinagar witnessed an improvement in the night temperature in the last few days and recorded -0.4 °C compared to -1.3°C the previous night. The tourist resort of Pahalgam recorded -1°C compared to -3.3°C last night.Qazigund recorded -0.3°C while Kupwara recorded -0.4°C. The famous ski resort Gulmarg recorded a minimum of -1°C.Leh registered -5.5°C while Kargil town recorded -3°C. Drass in Kargil recorded -7.6°C. The MeT office said the cold wave in Kashmir and Ladakh will continue till the end of next week.The Valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past 13 days.Officials say foggy conditions are due to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and the burning of stubble and tree foliage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-snowfall-in-kashmir-valley-in-first-week-of-december-101638042179391.html
28-11-2021||Other||Modi, Capt, Badals all bartered away Punjab’s interests: Channi||Barnala Appealing to the electorate to wipe out the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the next year’s Punjab assembly polls, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday accused these parties of bartering away the state’s interests. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Captain Amarinder Singh and the Badals are hand-in-glove in bartering away Punjab’s interests,” he told a rally, asking people to see through politicians who played with their emotions. Channi added that Sukhbir must stop threatening the bureaucracy and the police for only doing their job. “Tactics like protesting at my residence and getting SAD workers arrested will not work. Those guilty in drug smuggling rackets or sacrilege will be punished,” he added. He alleged that the SAD-BJP regime operated drug, transport and cable mafia to enrich personal coffers, while emptying the state treasury. Lambasting Amarinder for expressing gratitude to PM Modi for announcing the repeal of the three black farm laws, Channi added, “I fail to understand that how can a true Punjabi rejoice over this decision, since nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the year-long agitation at the Delhi borders and in other parts of the state.” On AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of giving ₹1,000 per month to each woman above 18 years in Punjab, if voted to power, Channi said, “Kejriwal must give figures on how many women have been extended this relief in Delhi. Punjabis are wise and will not be swayed by such false promises.”He added that 11 of 20 AAP MLAs in Punjab had already shifted their loyalty to other political parties. “Even NRIs have realised that the AAP only makes hollow claims, not even remotely concerned with reality,” the CM claimed. Channi also announced ₹25 crore for holistic development of Barnala assembly constituency, including repair and widening of Rajgarh road to 22 feet. Earlier, addressing a public gathering at Mehal Kalan, he had announced ₹75 crore for the development of Barnala. He also announced that Mehal Kalan will be upgraded to a sub-division, besides the construction of an Industrial Training Institute (ITI). Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) general secretary and former Barnala MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon said ommon man’s rule had been established in Punjab, only after Channi became the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-capt-badals-all-bartered-away-punjab-s-interests-channi-101638042000493.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||HIMUDA to develop existing land to generate revenue||The Himachal Pradesh Urban Development and Housing Authority (HIMUDA) has decided to develop 1,731bigha unutilised land to generate revenue and not purchase any new land, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Saturday.Bhardwaj was chairing a meeting of HIMUDA officials for improvement of the authority’s working and fiscal conditions. The minister also instructed HIMUDA to complete assigned deposit works in time.The minister said HIMUDA is an important agency in terms of the state’s development and efforts were on to revamp it. The minister said HIMUDA is contemplating to adopt a land-pooling policy.“HIMUDA had purchased 1,731 bigha land at various places across the state for ₹156 crore. Now, instead of buying more land, we will development such land to generate revenue,” said Bhardwaj.He said as per the proposal, land of willing private land owners is being developed and marketed by HIMUDA without actually acquiring the land.“HIMUDA colonies proposed at different locations will be known by the nearest famous and renowned stations like Shimla, Solan, Dharamsala to enhance their brand value,” the minister said.He said HIMUDA has been assigned the deposit works especially in Shimla. “HIMUDA has been directed to complete the deposit works in time and not to divert these funds for other works,” the minister added.He said HIMUDA was also approaching industries and horticulture department for leasing out chunks of land in different parts of the state. The minister directed HIMUDA to provide one-stop system to the allottees and other stakeholders for which a dedicated phone number or Whatsapp number can be launched.HIMUDA officials, led by vice-chairman Praveen Sharma, handed over a detailed recommendation to bring change in its functioning of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himuda-to-develop-existing-land-to-generate-revenue-101638041999374.html
28-11-2021||Other||Farmer killed by big cat in Dudhwa buffer zone||Lakhimpur Kheri: A big cat attacked and killed a 45-year-old farmer in Dudhwa buffer zone area under Belrayan range of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday evening, said forest department officials. The deceased was identified as Rammurti, a resident of Dumeda village under Tikunia Kotwali area. The agricultural fields, where the casualty took place, was close to Katarniaghat wildlife sanctuary forests, said deputy director, Dudhwa buffer zone, Sundresha, confirming the death in the big cat’s attack. However, he said, “It is yet to be ascertained if the big cat was a tiger or a leopard.” He further said that they were with the grieving family at the time and an inquiry had been set up into his death. According to reports, the victim Rammurti along with others was harvesting his sugarcane crop on Saturday. While harvesting the crop, a big cat hiding in the cane field, which the villagers described to be a tiger, attacked Rammurti and trird to drag his body into the neighbouring forests. However, villagers rushed to the spot, drove away the big cat and recovered the body. Forest range officer Vimlesh along with his staff, Tikonia kotwali in-charge Balendu Gautam and other police officials also rushed the spot and enquired about the incident. Notably, Belrayan range shares its boundaries with Katarniaghat wildlife sanctuary. Movement of big cats and wild elephants has grown in this area, leading to a number of man-animal conflicts. Half a dozen persons in this area have been killed by wild animals since October 6, 2020, resulting in huge public resentment. The forest department on its part has dug out trenches, installed illuminating lights in September /October 2020 to keep away wild animals from human habitations, however, the demographic conditions pose challenge. The officials have also issued advisories, asking villagers and farmers, to be on high alert and work in groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-killed-by-big-cat-in-dudhwa-buffer-zone-101638041159706.html
28-11-2021||Other||Minsk Square: A tribute to east Europe in the middle of Bengaluru city||Bengaluru: For those visiting Bengaluru, after the stunning view of the Vidhan Soudha, it is the Minsk Square that is a head-turner. With a full-sized model of the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) sitting majestically at the centre of the square, this busy square located next to Chinnaswamy Cricket Stadium is a famous landmark in the city. But unknown to many, the square is named after an Eastern European city – Minsk, capital of Belarus. What is even more interesting is that the city Minsk has a square named after Bangalore. Even though many Soviet day statues and street names remain unchanged, a busy traffic junction and a huge park in Minsk was renamed after Bangalore, to show mutual respect. The two cities, which are known as the silicon valleys of their respective countries, have a 35-year-long relationship. Even though forgotten or unknown to many Bengalureans, Minsk is a sister city of Bengaluru. The Sister City initiative between any two cities will be established to strengthen bilateral exchange relationships in the field of economy and trade, education, culture, information and technology and other sectors of municipal administration; and it dates back to post world war II era. “Prior to this name change in 1989, Minsk Square was known as Queen’s Road Circle. Interestingly, then instead of the LCA fighter, the circle had a famous Ajeet fighter plane. The 1975-make single seater fighter-interceptor that was decommissioned in 1991 was installed at the centre of the junction,” recollected Wing Commander Prakash Kumar, a former Indian Air Force official who served in Bengaluru during that time. Minsk, however, is not the only city with which Bengaluru shares the sister city tag. Bengaluru has signed similar MoUs with Reno City in Nevada and San Francisco in the United States of America. According to urban experts, apart from the MoU and naming circles (in the case of Minsk), these programmes have not made a big impact in improving the infrastructure and governance of the city. A former IAS officer who served as the commissioner of the BBMP said that apart from junkets to these countries, the programme doesn’t boast of any innovations or changes. “In principle, this is a fantastic idea. The fact that a name like Minsk has become a household name in our city shows the success of the cultural exchange in the programme. But, in all three sister city projects, no considerable change on the ground has happened,” he said. Urban expert V Ravichandar said that there are many issues with the programme itself. For example, who has the ownership of the city. “In Bengaluru BBMP is not an agency that has control over Bengaluru. We have Bescom, BDA and many other agencies. Unlike the mayor of Bengaluru city, a major of San Francisco has much higher authority. There is a big mismatch,” he pointed. Ravichander also said that there is potential in the programme, but it is not being utilised. “To give an example, San Francisco has a wonderful open-source project, where all data related to city development is available in public. Developers and entrepreneurs can use this data to come up with solutions to the city’s problem. Even though our officers have visited San Francisco, we keep our data like a state secret. It is a lost opportunity,” he added. However, it is not all a lost cost. In March this year, Minsk Major Vladimir Kukharev met with India’s Ambassador to the Republic of Belarus Sangeeta Bahadur to discuss ways of expanding cooperation between Minsk and Bengaluru. According to a statement, while the Indian side is interested in working in such areas as education, tourism, economy and joint ventures, and the Belarusian side is interested in IT, business and industry. Following the meeting, both parties agreed to expand educational opportunities in technical specialities and information technology in Belarus for students from India. An ‘India Week’ is also expected to be held in Minsk in September 2022 to showcase the economic potential of the Belarusian capital for Indian guests, the statement added. Meanwhile for the average Bengaluru, the “Minsk square” remains a part of their daily life, unaware of its connection with the former Soviet Union city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minsk-square-a-tribute-to-east-europe-in-the-middle-of-bengaluru-city-101638040859368.html
28-11-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh Board: Last date for Inter, high school exam form submission extended to Dec 15||PRAYAGRAJ The last date for advance registration of class 9 and 11, and online filling of examination forms for class 10 and 12 examination -2022 for students of the schools affiliated to Uttar Pradesh Board has been extended once more, from November 8 to December 15. This is the fourth time that the date for registration and filling up forms has been extended by the board. A notification regarding this has also been made available on the official website of UP Board— https://upmsp.edu.in. The move yet again gives an opportunity to the students, who were promoted in high school and intermediate without examination in 2021 during the Covid pandemic, to appear in the board examination of 2022 free of cost, if they are unhappy with their result, informed state education department officials. The certificate-cum-marksheet of 2021 will be provided only to those students (registered in 2021), who opt to appear in the 2022 edition of the high school and intermediate exams, said UP Board officials while confirming the development. Many students of high school and intermediate have already availed their chance at the mark’s improvement examination held from September 18 to October 6, 2021. All the promoted students, except those who have passed the marks improvement examination-2021, will be allowed to appear in class 10 and 12 examination of 2022 free of cost, officials made clear. In the board exam results of 2021, as many as 1,44,744 students, including 82,238 students of high school and 62,506 students of intermediate do not have marks on their marksheets but were promoted. This latest decision will come as a major relief to such students, who have been running to their schools as well approaching district inspectors of schools (DIOSs), regional offices of the UP Board and also UP Board headquarters demanding a solution. Till November 8, 51,27,743 students had applied for class 10-12 exams and 58,40,608 for registration for class 9 and 11. After the extended last date of November 20, about 58.53 lakh students had filled the form for class 9 and 11, and 51.55 lakh for class 10 and 12 exams, informed UP Board officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-board-last-date-for-inter-high-school-exam-form-submission-extended-to-dec-15-101638040559241.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||BKU call to send 30 tractors, 500 people to Ghazipur border daily||MEERUT Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has called upon farmers and supporters to send 30 tractors and 500 people at Ghazipur border every day, during the winter session of Parliament. These farmers will join a ‘ tractor march’ to Parliament to raise the farmers’ demands (including guarantee to purchase crop at minimum support price (MSP)) whenever their leaders call for it. To note, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha meeting in New Delhi on Saturday decided to suspend the march for now. Future course of action will be decided in a meeting on December 4. Speaking to HT on phone, Tikait said that the winter session of Parliament was about to begin and so he had directed union office-bearers and farmers to send 30 tractors and 500 people at Ghazipur border every day to take part in the march to Parliament, whenever a decision was taken in this regard. “We have made our plan for a Parliament march. Let us see whether or not they (government) allow us to proceed,” said Tikait who raised questions over the government’s attitude in accepting the demand of making MSP legal. The farmer leader claimed that only six per cent of the crops were being sold at MSP and farmers had resorted to selling the remaining 94 per cent in the market at lower prices. Asking why the government could not procure the entire crop at MSP when traders were able to purchase 94 per cent of it and sell it further in the market, he said that the issue of MSP was important for improving the financial condition of farmers across the country and the ‘andolan’ ( agitation) would end only after the government accepted all the demands of the farmers. BKU leaders have started reaching out to farmers and union supporters in villages to muster support at Ghazipur border during the winter session of Parliament. The union’s Moradabad division president Digamber Singh, who has given a call to farmers to ensure their presence at Ghazipur border, said, “Meetings are being organised in villages to apprise farmers about the movement after withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws and to ensure their presence in the movement to push the demand for the guarantee of MSP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bku-call-to-send-30-tractors-500-people-to-ghazipur-border-daily-101638040499230.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh targets BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (of trying to instil fear among people and alleged that its supporters mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri last month.“The BJP people know only two things — jeep chadhana aur jeebh chalana (running people over with jeep and making tall claims),” he said.Akhilesh Yadav was addressing a public meeting organised by his alliance partner Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) at Sandila in Hardoi district.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. The farmers were mowed by vehicles allegedly carrying BJP workers. Police have arrested Union minister of state (MoS) for home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra in connection with the death of the farmers. Both the minister and his son have repeatedly denied involvement in the incident.Akhilesh Yadav further said, “Farmers had come out to demand the withdrawal of three farm laws and BJP’s MoS for home and his supporters crushed them under the tyres of a jeep.”“They think they can do politics by terrorising people. The British ruled by dividing and they think they can rule by making people afraid. This time, no one will be afraid and we will wipe them out,” he said referring to the 2022 assembly polls.On coming to power, the SP chief said his party will work for the poor, backwards and farmers. He also hit out at the BJP over creation of jobs. Electricity became expensive as no new power generation plant was started, he said. Yadav assured that the power sector will be reformed if his SP forms the next government in the state.Attempting to touch local sentiments, Akhilesh Yadav said the business of making the famous Sandila laddoos will flourish again once the SP forms the government in the state.“The kind of crisis the government has created, no one is able to offer laddoos to anyone. The business of Sandila laddoos, too, got badly hit under this government and once the SP government returns, the Sandila laddoos work will flourish again,” said Akhilesh, referring to the renowned delicacy of Sandila.Addressing the rally earlier, SBSP president Om Prakash Rajbhar said the price of fuel was slashed after the BJP lost bypolls in several states recently. “This time, if you defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, then the price of petrol and diesel will be halved,” he said. He also promised a caste census if the SP-led alliance comes to power in the state. Earlier, the SBSP had joined hands with the SP.In the 2017 UP assembly elections, Rajbhar’s party had tied up with the BJP. Rajbhar was sworn in as a cabinet minister in the state government. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Rajbhar broke the alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-targets-bjp-over-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101638040259402.html
28-11-2021||Other||Central team begins tour of flood-hit areas of Andhra amid rains||HyderabadModerate to heavy rains lashed several parts of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh since Friday evening, as a seven-member inter-ministerial team of the Central government began touring the rain-ravaged areas of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra on Saturday.According to the official bulletin from AP State Development and Planning Society, Irugulam of Satyavedu block in Chittoor district bordering Tamil Nadu received a rainfall of 7.2 cm in the last 24 hours. Since Saturday morning till 5 pm, it witnessed a rainfall of 4 cm.There was a rainfall of 2.3 cm in Chittoor town, 2.2 cm in Yadamarri block, 2.1 cm in Nagari and 2.0 cm in Puttur. Many other parts in the district received 1 cm to 1.9 cm in the last 24 hours.A weather bulletin from Indian Meteorological Department, Amaravati said the south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions are going to witness light to moderate rains or thundershowers at a few places, while heavy to very heavy rains are likely to occur at isolated places. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning likely to occur at Isolated places in Rayalaseema.Another bulletin from Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, said squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-60 km per hour is very likely over southwest Bay of Bengal. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into the above sea areas till December 1,” the bulletin said.Meanwhile, the Central team headed by Kunal Satyarthi from Ministry of Home Affairs, began its tour of the flood-affected areas, starting from Chittoor. The team also includes Abhey Kumar from the finance ministry, Dr K Manoharan from the department of agriculture, Srinivasu Bairy from the water resources department, Shivani sharma from the ministry of power, Shravan Kumar Singh from the ministry of roadways and Anil Kumar Singh from the ministry of rural development.The central team inspected the flooded farmlands, damaged check dams and national highways at various places in Chandragiri assembly and other constituencies in Chittoor district.Earlier, the team had an interaction with the state government officials at a private hotel in Chittoor to get the version of the government. State revenue and disaster management principal secretary Usha Rani gave a power point presentation of the flood-hit areas and the damages incurred due to heavy rains between November 13 and 20.She explained how unprecedented rains ranging from 15 cm to 20 cm in Rayalaseema had destroyed road network in the region, besides causing breaches to several tanks constructed during the period of Vijayanagara emperors.“The breach caused to Annamayya project in Kadapa district, led to inundation of several villages and loss of over 20 lives, she said, adding that in all, 44 people died and another 15 were still missing in the Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur districts,” Usha Rani said, and requested liberal assistance from the Centre towards relief and restoration works.The Central team asked the state government to submit a detailed sector-wise loss of properties, besides crop loss. “We shall tour the affected areas to get the first hand information about the losses and submit a report to the Centre for necessary action,” Satyarthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-team-begins-tour-of-flood-hit-areas-of-andhra-amid-rains-101638040019128.html
28-11-2021||Other||Buildings, ghats in Varanasi to be illuminated to mark KV Corridor’s inauguration on Dec 13||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that special decorations of ghats and prominent buildings of Kashi would be done as part of the ‘Bhavya Kashi, Divya Kashi’ programme to be organised on the occasion of Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor’s inauguration on December 13. “There will be a festive atmosphere in Varanasi and live streaming of the worship at Kashi Vishwanath temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid chanting of Vedic mantras will be broadcasted at the public places,” Yogi said while reviewing the preparations of the mega event here. Directing officials concerned to carry out a special drive for decorating buildings and ghats on December 14, 15, and 16, Yogi said, “Prime minister has renovated KV temple with great determination. A special campaign of cleanliness should be run under the leadership of public representatives. On December 12, 13 and 14, special decoration and lighting of the main buildings of the city along with the Ganga ghats should be carried out. The provision of permanent lighting of government buildings should also be ensured.” Baba’s Prasad and development booklet of KV corridor will be delivered to every household in Kashi, said Yogi. He directed commissioner Deepak Agrawal to ensure arrangement of digital donation at KV temple and also to prepare a digital map of the entire city. Apart from these, cultural programmes would be organised in Kashi for a whole month to mark the inauguration of KV corridor, said Yogi. On the inaugural day, people would also light earthen lamps in their houses, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/buildings-ghats-in-varanasi-to-be-illuminated-to-mark-kv-corridor-s-inauguration-on-dec-13-101638039899405.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejri’s education model mere ad campaign: BJP||Chandigarh BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma on Saturday said the “crocodile tears” shed by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal have no takers in Punjab as his education model is a mere advertisement campaign. In statement, Sharma said the Kejriwal’s model has nothing substantial to improve the education level of the children and the Delhi chief minister should abstain from the drama being orchestrated by him to sympathise with agitating teachers. Sharma said the Kejriwal government in Delhi had approached the director of higher education and written to the vice-chancellor of Delhi University that action be taken against teachers protesting against non-payment of salary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejris-education-model-mere-ad-campaign-bjp-101638039779125.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||9.2 million miss second dose: Asha workers battle odds to meet target||Padama Dhisal, an accredited social health activist (ASHA) from Kolhapur’s Vadange village, has already visited the house of a 50-year-old woman, due to receive her second jab, four times this month. The woman was due for her second dose in early November. Mid-November, when 42-year-old Dhisal visited the woman for the second time to remind her to take her second dose, the woman said that she was busy with Diwali festivities and missed the date. In the past week, Dhisal has visited the woman twice and the woman said that she was unwell. “I have tried everything to convince her. I even told her that a lot of benefits like the ration shop will be linked to full vaccination soon,” said Dhisal. The 50-year-old is among the 150-odd people who have missed the second dose in Vadange village alone. She is among the 9.2 million people across the state who have missed the second dose due dates. Maharashtra’s target population is 91.5 million. While the state is close to 80% first dose coverage, its full vaccination or two-dose coverage is merely 41%. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said that one dose definitely provides some protection but the second dose is important to ensure immunity against severe disease and hospitalisation. “The pace of vaccination has definitely slowed down,” said state’s immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. “Initially, we dealt with a shortage of doses, there was also a momentary shortage of syringes but the drive stabilised as doses started to come in. But the pace of the drive declined again during Diwali,” he said. Data from the state shows that the average daily vaccinations dropped from 760,955 in September to 525,121 in October, and further declined to 463,389 this month.Nearly 70,000 ASHA workers like Dhisal have been on the ground throughout the pandemic, encouraging people to get tested, flagging suspected patients in the villages for quarantine and encouraging the population to take the jabs since the Centre rolled out universal adult vaccination on April 30. Yet, many like Dhisal find themselves struggling to motivate people to get their second jabs on time. The reduced number of Covid-19 cases, availability of vaccines and decreasing fear of Covid infection have resulted in people delaying their second doses, health workers said. According to Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the state’s public health department, recent daily vaccination trends showed that the number of second doses administered were higher than the first dose. “The number of people due for the second dose is a dynamic figure, which changes every day, as some of them take the second dose and new names get added to the list as and when people become due for it,” he said.“Some senior citizens fear the side effects, as they had fever and body ache for a few days after the first jab. Some people have flatly denied taking the second dose because of the reducing Covid-19 cases,” said Dhisal, who has been an ASHA worker for 12 years. Kolhapur is among the half a dozen districts in the state that have more than 80% first dose coverage (86.69% in this district), but its full vaccination coverage is only about 41.2%. In some of districts where the gap between two vaccines is high, ASHA workers have started telling the community that no vaccination could lead to other sufferings. For instance, in Nandurbar, which has achieved only 60% first dose coverage and 30% full vaccination coverage, health workers are telling community members that they may soon not get ration or will be barred from visiting marketplaces if they are not fully jabbed. “We have to warn them about worse case scenarios, even if the state doesn’t come up with such mandates,” said Leela Pawra (40), an ASHA supervisor from Nandurbar’s Dhadgaon block. She has 11 ASHAs in six villages working under her. Each one has at least 10 to 15 people under their jurisdiction who have missed the second dose. A large section of the population from Nandurbar migrates to other parts of the state and the country for work. They return just before the Holi festival, which falls in March. “The state has no mechanism to track this migrant population,” said Laitka Rajput, a social activist from Nandurbar. “When these migrants return, there will be a huge risk of a spurt, if they are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated,” she said. Many districts are trying to incentivize people to get the second dose. The Thane Municipal Corporation said that it would not pay salaries to employees who are unvaccinated. In Aurangabad, the district officials have mandated grocery shops, fuel pumps to make sales only to people who have taken at least one dose. In Mumbai local train travel and entry to the malls among other things are linked to full vaccination. Mumbai currently has around 400,000 people who have missed their second dose. Health minister Rajesh Tope in a media conference on Wednesday said that the last mile is challenging. “We have asked staff to put all focus on the districts that have vaccination coverage below the state’s average,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/92-million-miss-second-dose-asha-workers-battle-odds-to-meet-target-101638039600248.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||SKM has no plan to enter politics: Tikait||Three days after the Union cabinet approved the bill to repeal the three farm laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body 40 protesting farmers’ unions, has no plan to enter politics. Tikait was in Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple.Replying to a question about BKU’s Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni’s announcement of fighting the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab, Tikait said: “It is his personal view, but the SKM has no plan to enter politics.”He said the coronavirus and the three laws were two diseases against which one-and-a-half-year-long battle was fought. “We have sent a letter to the Union government for resumption of talks, but they want the farmers to go home without any dialogue. They want to defame the farmers,” he said.Answering another query about the SKM’s decision for continuing or discontinuing the agitation if the three farm laws are repealed in Parliament, he said: “The protest for other issues being faced by the farmers will continue.”Tikait said the families of those farmers who were died during the agitation against the three farm laws should be compensated. “The government is mum on the death of farmers,” he said, appealing the Centre to make a law legalising MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-has-no-plan-to-enter-politics-tikait-101638039599197.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||IT raids on Ayali, realtor led to seizure of ₹4.3 cr: CBDT||The recent Income Tax (IT) raids on two real estate developers, including Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali, have led to seizure of unaccounted cash and unexplained jewellery worth around ₹4.3 crore.Issuing a statement on Saturday, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) stated that the searches have resulted in seizure of unaccounted cash of about ₹2 crore, besides foreign exchange and unexplained jewellery of around ₹2.3 crore. Raids were conducted on Ayali and developers/promoters of a real estate project in the South City area of Ludhiana - Sunview Enclave. In total, 40 premises, including residences and offices, were covered in a two-day raid. According to the CBDT statement, major finding after the operation against the groups is about the receipt of unaccounted cash on property transactions. Documentary evidences in the nature of ‘agreement to sale’ (known as ‘biyana’ in local parlance) for certain properties have been seized. These documents indicate that the ‘agreement to sale’ for plots has been executed at much higher amount or rate as compared to the consideration disclosed in the registered sale deed of the plot. It has further been stated that ‘incriminating’ documents in the form of lose sheets, excel sheets showing calculation of receipt of funds for certain property transactions, soft data, chats from mobile phones of the persons concerned, etc. were also recovered. Probe shows that unaccounted cash expenditure has been incurred on construction of the residential house of one of the key persons. In one of the groups, defaults on compliances for the provisions of tax deduction at source have also been detected with regard to payments made to the sellers of the land, etc. Ayali and his supporters termed the searches part of political vendetta by the BJP-led Union government as he had been supporting the farmer agitation against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-raids-on-ayali-realtor-led-to-seizure-of-rs-4-3-cr-cbdt-101638039419034.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Farmer outreach: PM Modi may address convention on cow-based agriculture in Varanasi||In what could possibly be one of his first direct interactions with farmers after the decision to repeal three contentious agriculture reform laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is most likely to address a farmers’ convention on cow-based organic agriculture proposed in Varanasi in the third week of December.The convention is proposed to be held near Shahanshahpur in the Rajatalab area of Varanasi, said an officer of the agriculture department who asked not to be named. Varanasi is PM Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency.About 2,500 to 3,000 farmers will be invited to the convention, said the officer, adding that they will share their experiences. An outline for the meet has already been drawn up.Those farmers engaged in cow-based agriculture in different states of the country and using cow dung manure in farming will be among the invitees. In addition, agriculture scientists, experts from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and farmers from various parts of UP will be invited, said the officer. “A convention on cow-based farming is proposed to be held in Varanasi in the third week of December,” said Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and added that the date would be finalised soon.Another officer familiar with the matter said that the preparations for the convention are underway. A list of the farmers adept in cow-based agriculture is being finalized for invitation to the meet.Farmers are engaged in cow-based agriculture in pockets of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and certain other states where they use cow dung manure, in place of chemical fertilizers and prepare natural pesticides using cow dung and jaggery to protect their crops.These farmers will share their ideas on popularising cow-based farming, the officer said. PM Modi will interact with the farmers at the convention and may address them. A team of agriculture department officials will take note of the methods of cow-based farming in order to popularise them in UP.Before or after the convention, Modi is likely to visit Sevapuri, the country’s first model development block in Varanasi where all development schemes have been implemented with a special focus on health and education. A primary health centre, which was set up in Hathi Bazar, was upgraded and several wellness centres were set up. Awareness drives were carried out to bring behavioural change among the people in order that they use toilets. The locals were motivated to ensure that every child is enrolled in government schools. Political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, senior professor of political science at Banaras Hindu University, said that there was hardly any protest against the three new agri reform laws in the entire eastern UP, Avadh and Bundelkhand regions.“After taking the decision to repeal the three agri laws, the convention on cow-based farming is proposed to be held in Varanasi in December. Apparently, the convention is an effort by the government to give a message to the farmers that it is regularly making efforts to increase their income. Keep in mind that the time, topic and place of this convention are very important,” he said.Cow-based farming, prevalent in the country for ages, is zero-budget natural farming, which the Modi government promotes, said Prof Mishra and added that the convention appears to be an effort to connect with the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmer-outreach-pm-modi-may-address-convention-on-cow-based-agriculture-in-varanasi-101638039360310.html
28-11-2021||Pune||No Covid test report check for domestic passengers arriving at Pune airport: Ajit Pawar||Domestic travellers arriving at Pune airport can now breathe a sigh of relief, as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Saturday announced that no Covid test report will be checked for passengers who arrive in Pune. “A lot of time is wasted in tests when a passenger is travelling domestically. However, the passenger needs to be fully vaccinated before boarding a flight. A negative Covid report is also checked before going somewhere, and if that person returns, then there is no point in keeping him waiting again for a negative test. Many people have complained that they had to wait for 2-3 hours to get reports verified. So, in Pune, we have removed this restriction, provided that the passenger is fully vaccinated and follows all Covid protocol,” said Pawar while addressing press conference after conducting a Covid review meeting on Saturday in Pune. Pawar clarified that this exemption from Covid test is only meant for domestic flights. “However, for international flights, the rules set by the union government for the passengers will be followed,” said Pawar. Earlier, on November 24, this issue was raised by Girish Bapat, Member of Parliament, in a meeting with Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) chaired by him. He had pointed out how the dual check of vaccination certificate and RT-PCR report on arrival is causing inconvenience to the passengers. With a new Covid variant on the rise, Pawar said that the state and district administration will continue follow the guidelines issued by the union government to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-covid-test-report-check-for-domestic-passengers-arriving-at-pune-airport-ajit-pawar-101638039359227.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||No evidence to suggest accused is a peddler as claimed by NCB: Court||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court has observed that there is nothing on record to suggest that Shivraj Harijan – one of the accused in the cruise drugs case – was a drug peddler. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested him on October 10 for allegedly supplying drugs to Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan and his friend and small time actor Arbaaz Merchant – both of whom were arrested by the central agency in the cruise drugs bust case. “There is no prima facie evidence on record to show that the applicant was a supplier of contraband,” said special NDPS judge Vaibhav Patil, who granted bail to Harijan on November 22. “Therefore, the contention of the prosecution cannot be accepted that the applicant is a peddler and that he supplied contraband to the accused Arbaaz,” the court added in the detailed order, which became available on Friday evening. With regards to NCB’s claim of conspiracy, the court said: “Considering, the material placed on record, it cannot be said that prima facie there is conspiracy and abetment, as alleged by the prosecution.” It added that except the statement of a co-accused, there was no prima evidence on record to show that the applicant committed the offence as alleged by the prosecution. Further, as argued on behalf of the applicant, the alleged recovery of 62 grams of charas is non-commercial quantity and rigors of section 37 of NDPS Act would not apply, the court ruled. There is no evidence on record to show that the applicant committed any offence pertaining to commercial quantity and therefore section 29 of the NDPS Act – for conspiracy – would also not apply and the applicant is entitled to bail, it further held. Harijan was arrested from his residence in Murugan Chawl in Santacruz (West), after his name cropped up in Merchant’s statement to NCB. The agency had claimed that Harijan is a part of the city’s charas supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-evidence-to-suggest-accused-is-a-peddler-as-claimed-by-ncb-court-101638039299215.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Jumbo hospitals in Pune to remain operational: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Considering the new Covid variant and the onset of a third wave in various other countries, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has ordered the jumbo hospitals in Pune to remain operational. Pawar on Saturday said, “The jumbo hospitals located at Shivajinagar and Magar stadium, Pimpri will continue to stay operational. Further decision on shutting down these hospitals will be taken after December 31.” Pawar said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called for a meeting with all district collectors on Sunday to review the situation and take steps accordingly. “We must not let our guard down against Covid-19. If these jumbo hospitals are demolished, it will be very difficult to reconstruct them,” added Pawar. Meeting for traffic management due to metro work Ajit Pawar on Saturday took a a review meeting to put in place a traffic plan as the work of Hinjewadi to Shivajingar metro commenced. Pawar said, “All the agencies were present for the meeting. Considering flyover work at University chowk, SPPU, Vaikunthbhai Mehta Institute have agreed to help with traffic management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jumbo-hospitals-in-pune-to-remain-operational-ajit-pawar-101638039062956.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||SAD leaders court arrest outside Channi’s house||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, were arrested by Chandigarh Police on Saturday when they arrived to hold a demonstration in front of the official residence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Senior leaders of the party were stopped outside Channi’s residence in Sector 2 and were taken to Sarangpur police station after their arrest. On Friday, the SAD core committee members had announced they would court arrest in front of the CM’s residence to protest against the alleged conspiracy to implicate former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a false drugs case. While being arrested, Sukhbir warned state government officials against becoming part of the conspiracy against the SAD leaders. He claimed that the SAD leaders had definite information that the chief minister has ordered the state DGP to register a false case against Majithia. “This has been done after the chief minister held a meeting with Punjab Congress chief (Navjot Singh Sidhu) and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,” he said. All core group members of the party accompanied Sukhbir in the demonstration. Meanwhile, high drama was witnessed on the MLA hostel premises in Sector 4 when an unemployed elementary teacher climbed atop a mobile tower carrying a petrol bottle.The incident took place hours before the SAD leaders were to assemble at the MLA hostel to march towards the CM’s residence. The protester threatened to end his life if the government doesn’t sign orders regarding ending pay anomaly and regularising the services of 180 teachers.SAD leaders, including Sukhbir and Majithia, talked to the teacher and tried to persuade him to come down, but to no avail. Later, they rang education minister Pargat Singh and urged him to intervene. Cong slams Akalis Congress leader Damanvir Phillaur hit out at the SAD for its court arrest in view of the reported move of the state government to register an FIR against former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case. “It is shameful to see the Akali Dal, a party known for morchas like Punjabi Suba & ‘Jaito’ putting up a ‘morcha’ to protect someone who has links in a drug trade,” Damanvir said in a statement. He said the Akali Dal that was a party known for agitations it conducted for betterment of Punjab and Punjabis has been reduced to a ‘family’ party by Sukhbir who’s only aim is to protect and promote his relatives’ in all sort of activities. Damanvir, son of ex-Akali minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur, who was also once quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the drug case before he joined the Congress ahead of Punjab assembly polls in 2017, said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi deserves all udos for allowing law enforcement agencies to deal with drug mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-leaders-court-arrest-outside-channi-s-house-101638039059227.html
28-11-2021||Pune||PMC completes GIS mapping of 3,100 properties, digital footprint to help prevent encroachment||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has resorted to modern digital tools to prevent encroachment on its properties and to make comprehensive information easily available. Accordingly, the Estate and Management Department has so far completed GIS Polygon mapping of 3,100 out of 3,600 properties. The city has 3,600 properties owned by the civic body or acquired for various purposes which include schools, hospitals, playgrounds, parks, cultural buildings, fire stations, vegetable markets, ward office buildings, water supply centres, cemeteries, drainage projects, amenity spaces, chawls, community temples and study halls. According to deputy commissioner Rajendra Muthe, there are constant complaints of encroachment on municipal properties, especially open spaces. At the same time, the ‘digital record’ of these properties was not available with the municipal corporation. Therefore, in the last two to three years, the PMC’s Estate and Management Department has taken special measures to prevent encroachment. The property department also undertook the task of ‘GIS polygon mapping’ of all the properties owned by the corporation to prevent encroachments. This comprises information related to latitude, longitude, type of reservation, satellite imagery of current usage and total size. Mapping is done on a scale of 1: 500. Mapping of the remaining properties is currently underway. Community temples, low-lying buildings have not been mapped yet and the mapping of the said properties is expected to be completed in the coming months, said officials. Pune-based activist Saleem Mulla said, “Digital mapping will prevent fraud results and also keep PMC properties safe from encroachment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-completes-gis-mapping-of-3-100-properties-digital-footprint-to-help-prevent-encroachment-101638038999412.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra, Mumbai issue steps to contain Omicron||The state government in a notification on Saturday made it mandatory for people to be fully vaccinated to access public places and public transport. It also said it will monitor crowding at weddings and open spaces to prevent super-spreader events. The notification has also reiterated that the domestic flight travellers will have to be either fully vaccinated or shall carry an RT-PCR test report valid for 72 hours. Simultaneously, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), all international passengers arriving at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport from “countries of concern” including countries from Africa, will be made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, and if found positive, will be sent to an institutional quarantine centre while their samples would be sent to the city’s genome sequencing lab. This is in light of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – that has been named Omicron by World Health Organisation (WHO). The variant, B.1.1.529, was first reported to WHO from South Africa, which has tagged it as a ‘variant of concern. The travel history of all international passengers will be verified through their passports on arrival and would be required to proffer their travel history of the past 15 days. All international passengers arriving at the airport will be examined for symptoms of Covid-19. According to additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani the “countries of concern” include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Mozambique, apart from some Middle Eastern and European countries. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to the city municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday following which senior BMC officials including additional municipal commissioners Ashwini Bhide, P. Velrasu and Kakani, held a meeting later in the day with the joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nagre-Patil, airport officials and superintendents of all major hospitals as well as members of the state Covid task force, the statement issued by the civic body said. The BMC is expected to update its protocol on testing and institutional quarantine for international passengers following further instructions from the state and Central government. For the state, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte issued a notification on Saturday making the monitoring of the Covid Appropriate Behavioiour (CAB) stringent. The order says that visitors, guests, customers and organisers at events, programmes, shops, establishments, malls, and gatherings should be fully vaccinated. The onus of the implementation of SOPs lies on the organisers or the operator of the establishments/premises. They will face a penalty of ₹10,000 or ₹50,000 for each violation. To be sure, the state has witnessed a significant drop in the daily caseload over last two months. From a daily average of 3535 in September and 2021 in October, the average fell to 905 cases during the first 24 days of November. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “BMC is planning, with airport authorities, to check travel history of international passengers coming to Mumbai, basis stamps on their passport, to be checked at immigration counter. This will be made effective right away.” The state has so far made both the doses mandatory for travelling in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. It has now extended the restriction for all the public transport, including taxis and autorickshaws across the state. Passengers as well as the driver/conductors and, in case of private bus services, operators will be held responsible for failure of the passengers in following Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB). Violators will be ₹500 individually, and the operator with ₹10,000 per instance. In case of the repeated violations, private operators may also lose their licences. In private vehicles, the onus of maintaining CAB is with the owner of the vehicle, the order states. Organisers and operators of events will be liable to a penalty of ₹50,000 in the first instance, and could lose their licence in case of repeated violations. In case of taxis and autorickshaws, the responsibility of full vaccination will lie with passengers. The state has also decided to restrict and monitor weddings for crowding. The state order says that the number of guests at wedding ceremonies at open-to-sky venues, including grounds, lawns, etc, should not be more than 25% of the venue’s capacity. The local authorities have will ascertain the capacity of the venue. A state official said, “This will be applicable to not only wedding ceremonies but also for other events including cricket, political rallies, and other events. Out of the 2.5 million weddings taking place in India until December 31, 400,000 are expected to take place in Maharashtra and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mumbai-issue-steps-to-contain-omicron-101638038939227.html
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 24 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 24 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,190, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related fatality reported in the state, the death toll stood at 16,593, the bulletin said, adding that the state’s positivity rate was 0.10% on Saturday. However, the number of active cases in the state rose to 313. Among the fresh cases, maximum nine were detected in Pathankot, three each in Jalandhar and Ludhiana. With 39 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,284, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-24-fresh-covid-cases-101638038879053.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Expedite work of Phulewada, Savitribai Phule monuments: deputy CM||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at a meeting held in the presence of food, civil supplies and consumer protection minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday directed the Pune administration to expedite the process to develop the national monument at Phulewada and Savitribai Phule memorial. Pawar instructed the administration for carry out land acquisition for the expansion of the monuments. It was also informed that the Bhide wada school, the first school for girls started in Pune on January 1, 1848, by Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and his wife Savitribai Phule, to be declared a national memorial. The school, currently in a dilapidated state after it was shut down almost 15 years ago, will be developed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The meeting was chaired by Pawar and also attended by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and professor Hari Narke, who heads the Mahatma Phule chair in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The meeting was attended by shopkeepers from Bhide wada and representatives of residents. Pawar instructed that the land acquisition process for the expansion and development of the project should be done at the earliest to which district collector Deshmukh said that a proposal for the same would soon be formed and submitted. Bhujbal, who attended the meet, said, “In 1984, Mahatma Phule and Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule started the first girls’ school at Bhidewada. Instead of just erecting statue at the place, a school building for girls at the same spot would be a real memorial to the social reformist duo.” Pawar told the administration to hold a meeting regarding rehabilitation of commercial occupants and residents living in the same building in Bhidewada and chalk out the land acquisition process, and settle the matter amicably. He said that everyone should come forward to setting up the school as a good monument dedicated to the social reformers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/expedite-work-of-phulewada-savitribai-phule-monuments-deputy-cm-101638038819379.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Vaccinate 100% beneficiaries in rural Pune with first dose by November 30: Collector||With the confirmation of a new variant of concern, Omicron, and commercial activities operating in full swing, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has instructed rural administration staff to ensure that 100% beneficiaries are vaccinated with the first dose by November 30. According to officials, there is no shortage of vaccines, but the response at vaccination centres declining as the fear of Covi-19 infection is also reducing in proportion. The Pune district administration had earlier set a deadline of mid-October to vaccinate all the beneficiaries with the first dose, but could not meet the target. “We need to bring in innovative methods to ensure that everyone visits vaccination centres for the first dose. The new variant is a cause of concern, and we must focus on maintaining covid protocols like wearing a mask, washing hands and social distancing. We have been following these for over a year now. It is only because of vaccination that we have been able to curb the spread of the virus, so I request everyone to get fully vaccinated,” said Deshmukh. As of November 24, out of 3.57 million people, rural Pune has vaccinated 3.27 million with the first dose which is about 92%; of these, 1.84 million are fully vaccinated. Thus, the administration has to vaccinate 300,000 people before November 30. In Pune district, 97% of the beneficiaries have received their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccinate-100-beneficiaries-in-rural-pune-with-first-dose-by-november-30-collector-101638038759075.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||Mathura admn warns against ‘kar seva’ at Eidgah on Dec 6||Agra In the wake of the call given by the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) to conduct ‘kar-seva’ at Shahi Eidgagh in Mathura on December 6, the Mathura police and administration have warned against any such act. District magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal and senior superintendent of police, Mathura, Dr Gaurav Grover clarified after visiting Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and Shahi Eidgah on Saturday that Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code was in force and no one would be allowed to disturb peace in the area. “We have come to know from social media about such plans on December 6. No one has sought any permission for any such act at Shahi Eidgah, nor has any such permission been given to any individual or organization. The prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code are in force in the district,” said the DM. “Anyone attempting to disturb peace will be strictly dealt with and tough action will be taken against any one violating law and order on December 6,” warned the SSP. In Agra, activists of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha led by national spokesperson Sanjay Jaat, undertook ‘amantran yatra’ on motor cycles on Saturday, to invite volunteers for the programme at Shahi eidgah in Mathura on December 6. Police intervened and arguments took place. To recall, national president of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) Rajshree Chaudhary had said during a press conference in Mathura on November 16 that it would perform “jalabhishek” (a religious ritual in which water is offered to the deity) after installing an idol of Bal Gopal (the child Krishna) at a site within the Eidgah adjoining the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura on December 6. There is a dispute over the land on which the Eidgah and Sri Krishna Janambhoomi are located side by side in Mathura. Various litigations are on in the civil courts of Mathura by Hindu organisations and individuals who allege that the Eidgah was built after demolition of a temple by Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb at the site where Lord Krishna was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mathura-admn-warns-against-kar-seva-at-eidgah-on-dec-6-101638038579275.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Labourer arrested for killing transwoman over solicitation in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police on Saturday arrested a 26-year-old man for killing a transwoman with whom he is suspected to have indulged in solicitation. The deceased has been identified as Sarika alias Sagar Khandu Ujagar, a resident of Mhada Colony, Hadapsar. The arrested man has been identified as Vijay Gayaram Choudhury (26) a resident of Sundarnagar, Katraj who works as a labourer, according to the police. According to the officials, a body was found half-naked in the bushes on November 23 around 8am along the Mumbai-Bangalore highway. The body also had injuries on it. The officials took two days to identify the person by talking to nearby shop or restaurant owners. “A person in a local bar told us that she had left with a man she had met in there. So, we back-tracked her steps and found that she had arrived at the bar in a bus. Prima facie it looks like a murder that happened out of solicitation,” said senior police inspector Kalaskar. The deceased transwoman collected alms on the toll plaza in Khed Shivapur, according to the police. “A young boy who sold fried snacks on the toll plaza who identified her,” said senior PI Kalaskar. The arrested man, who will be produced in court on Sunday, and the deceased transwoman were not known to each other before November 22, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labourer-arrested-for-killing-transwoman-over-solicitation-in-pune-101638038338996.html
28-11-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar announces further relaxations, contradicts state order||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday announced new relaxations for Pune after conducting the Covid-19 review meeting. However, later in the day, the state government issued a notification stating that the district disaster management authority can tighten restrictions but not dilute them, leading to confusion. Despite repeated attempts, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and Pune district collector Rajendra Deshmukh were unavailable for comments. As per the new relaxations announced by Pawar, theatres and auditoriums can operate with 100% occupancy from December 1. Cultural programmes and music festivals will also be permitted on open rounds in adherence to all Covid-19 protocols. “Earlier, theatres and auditoriums were allowed to operate at 50% capacity, but with schools reopening there is no point in keeping these restrictions. From December 1, all theatres and auditoriums can operate at full capacity provided all Covid-19 norms are followed. In light of the Covid-19 variant omicron, we will follow the instructions given by the union government,” said Pawar while addressing a press conference. Earlier, on October 22, the government had allowed theatres and auditoriums to function at 50% capacity, but the owners complained about its adverse effects on the business. Though Pawar did not specify the relaxations for restaurants, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Eateries are likely to be allowed to function at full capacity and we will issue orders soon.” On Saturday, Pune district reported 207 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. In the past two weeks, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Pune city has jumped from 647 to 823. While the number of critical cases has not shown a drastic change due to patients resorting to temporary solutions and over-the-counter medication according to doctors, the surge in active cases has prompted the civic body to not shut down jumbo centres yet. As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, in the past two weeks between November 8 and 24, the number of active Covid-19 cases has risen by 176. However, the number of critical cases has not changed during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-announces-further-relaxations-contradicts-state-order-101638038041046.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||MVA turns 2: ‘No public celebrations to mark its second anniversary’||While the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government under Uddhav Thackeray has proved its sceptics wrong by completing two years in office, the celebrations are muted due to Thackeray’s recuperation from a spine surgery and the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, whose economic and social ramifications are not conducive to a large-scale commemoration. The looming threat of a third wave of the virus has also played a role of a dampener. The state government has not organised any public event to mark its second anniversary. While Thackeray is recovering after his surgery, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar, seen as the anchor and troubleshooter of the alliance, is in Delhi for the impending session of the Parliament. However, Thackeray issued a statement asserting that the government had stood up to “natural and man-made disasters” and would continue to do so in the future. Promising to work for the common man, he thanked citizens for their support. “There are no public celebrations to mark the MVA government’s second anniversary. One reason is that the chief minister is recuperating after his surgery. The Covid-19 crisis is yet to pass, and this may be another reason,” explained a Shiv Sena legislator. “At present, the situation is not conducive for a celebration. Though we have completed two years in office, there is a lot of work that remains to be done. Those who have tried to destabilise the government have failed miserably. The government has worked in adverse situations under the leadership of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, particularly while handling the Covid-19 crisis,” said Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant. A senior Congress leader said that the MVA’s biggest achievement was completing two years while proving the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)—whose leaders vicariously give fresh deadlines for the collapse of the government—wrong. “Joining hands to form a government was an imperative for the three parties considering the BJP’s onslaught and their impending existential crisis. We have completed two years in office, but the real challenges may crop up in the future as the 2024 elections approach, and an intense eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation between the MVA and the BJP may be in the offing,” he explained. Minority development minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said that the state government was on an austerity drive due to the Covid crisis and splurging on publicity to mark its second anniversary would be inappropriate. However, it will publicise the decisions taken by it in the last two years, after Thackeray was discharged from hospital. Opposition BJP said the two years of MVA have been of no use for the state. “There is no governance in Maharashtra for the past two years,” charged BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, while charging that the MVA government was blaming the Centre for every failure from the Covid crisis to the monsoons. He said that Maharashtra was becoming a “rogue state” under this regime. Prakash Pawar, political analyst and professor, department of political science at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur, said more than any internal wrangling or fissures between the allies, Thackeray’s surgery may have put a spoke in the plans. While the Shiv Sena and the NCP were quick to claim credit for any achievements, the Congress traditionally dithered in doing so, and was also in a state of confusion, he observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-turns-2-no-public-celebrations-to-mark-its-second-anniversary-101638037980282.html
28-11-2021||Other||Haryana allows gathering of 500 in open spaces||The Haryana government on Saturday relaxed norms for open gatherings and allowed up to 500 people in open spaces, subject to strict observance of Covid-19 protocols.The directions in this regard were issued by Vijai Vardhan, chief secretary, Haryana. “The policy of ‘no mask no service’ will be strictly followed and all the stakeholders must implement the Covid safety guidelines,” said the order. In the open spaces, a gathering of 200 people were allowed earlier.In the previous relaxations, the government had allowed all bars, restaurants and pubs to operate with full capacity. The government had also allowed cinema halls to operate with full capacity. On Saturday, Gurugram reported seven new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases in the district to 62. So far, the district has reported a total of 181,666 cases, including 925 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-allows-gathering-of-500-in-open-spaces-101638037979172.html
28-11-2021||Lucknow||People have seen misrule of BJP, SP and BSP: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress general secretary and the party’s Uttar Pradesh incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said people had seen the misrule of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).She accused the three parties of befooling the people and looting the Bundelkhand region.The Congress general secretary was in Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh to address a rally at the Chatrasal grounds in her quest to regain the party’s lost ground in one of the most backward regions.In her address centering around farmers and women, she said the current (BJP) government was not able to make water available for irrigation to farmers who were losing lives in their quest to get fertilizer.“The maximum number of suicides by farmers was in Bundelkhand. The farmers who were in queue for days for fertilizer, braving hunger and thirst, died,” she said. The problems that she was briefed about during her visit to the region in 2019 had not changed a bit, the Congress leader said.When the Congress forms the government in Uttar Pradesh, it would constitute a Bundelkhand Development Board that would be linked to gram panchayats and locals alone would get a place in it, she said.The problem of stray cattle, one of the biggest issues in region, could be solved with Chhattisgarh model, she said. The Congress leader also announced 20 lakh jobs for the people of Bundelkhand.She said she arranged buses to provide some relief to migrants walking home during the Covid lockdown, but the Uttar Pradesh government refused to accept her gesture. The Congress leader asserted that the mining policy of UP would be changed if her party came to power. The officials and politicians have formed an extortion gang and elected representatives are involved in land grab and illegal mining, she alleged.Reading out some of her party’s poll promises, she said the women would be given 40% tickets and promised three free cooking gas cylinders to housewives. Girl students would get smartphones and scooters, she reiterated, emphasising that farmers’ loans would be waived.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who was also present with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, said Bundelkhand would benefit from the Chhattisgarh model of development.This was Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s second visit to Bundelkhand in 10 days. She had earlier interacted with women in Chitrakoot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-have-seen-misrule-of-bjp-sp-and-bsp-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-101638036900411.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi air stays ‘severe’ for second day, relief not likely till tomorrow||Delhi’s air pollution levels remained in the ‘severe’ zone on Saturday for the second straight day, as the city logged an air quality index (AQI) of 402, according to the 4pm bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board.India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials warned that an improvement in pollution levels are unlikely at least till Monday, owing to slow winds.“Calm winds are not allowing pollution particles to disperse properly. Similar conditions are likely to continue till November 29. On Sunday, the AQI levels are likely to be in the upper end of very poor zone,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre.Delhi logged an AQI of 406 (severe) on Friday, and 400 (a notch short of severe) a day before that.The polluted air also affected visibility levels in the city.Senior IMD scientist RK Jenamani said, “Till 10am, the visibility here was around 400-800 metres which improved to 800-1,200 metres later in the day. Delhi largely recorded calm winds throughout Saturday. At the Safdarjung airport, winds picked up for a short duration and reached around 5-7kmph, but that was not enough to help the dispersion of pollution.”He said that at the Palam airport, which saw a maximum wind speed of 10-15kmph, the visibility levels improved from 1,200-1,800 metres in the morning to 2,200 metres by afternoon.Analysis by the Union ministry for earth sciences’ System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) suggested that the high pollution recordings on Saturday were mostly caused by local sources.The share of stubble fires in Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) was 6%.Safar also analysed Delhi’s pollution in two scenarios — when stubble fires peaked, and when it was lower.Between October 30 and November 3, when the share of stubble fire in Delhi’s pollution was low, the share of stubble smoke from Punjab and Haryana was only 8% even as local sources contributed to nearly 69% to the Capital’s air pollution.External sources had a 23% share in the pollution levels.In the second scenario, when farm fires increased between November 9 and 13, its share spiked to 30% while the contribution of local sources remained around 52%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-stays-severe-for-second-day-relief-not-likely-till-tomorrow-101638035099282.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Right-wing group wins Delhi Univ teachers’ body polls after 24 years||The right-wing teachers’ group, National Democratic Teachers’ Front (NDTF), won the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) elections after a gap of 24 years, with its candidate AK Bhagi defeating the Left-aligned Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) candidate, Abha Dev Habib, by over 1,000 votes for the president’s post on Saturday. Bhagi, who is also the NDTF president, received 3,584 votes while Habib trailed behind with 2,202 votes.DUTA elections were held on Friday and the results were declared on Saturday. Five NDTF candidates have been also elected to the 15-member DUTA Executive.Bhagi said that NDTF had achieved a decisive victory which reflected the faith that teachers had reposed in NDTF’s approach. “This victory is important because our voice and concerns will be heard across the country. One can also take corrective measures which can lead to betterment of education and service conditions of teachers,” said Bhagi (58), a professor at Dyal Singh College.Outlining some of the key areas that DUTA will focus on, Bhagi said he will fight for all section of teachers irrespective of their political persuasions or ideologies. He said that DUTA’s immediate emphasis will be on regularisation/absorption of existing ad hoc teachers through legally tenable processes. Further, the teachers’ body will also focus on payment of regular salaries, pension, allowances and arrears to the teachers and employees of 12 fully-funded Delhi government colleges that are part of DU.EC member VS Negi, who is also a member of the NDTF, said that the group last won the presidential post in 1997. Negi said that the body had started making gains again from 2014-15.In the 2019 elections, Bhagi, who then too was contesting for the post of president, had lost to Rajib Ray of the DTF by a slim margin.He said that the previous leadership of DUTA had created a negative environment by sidelining the issues of teachers and focusing on issues national politics. “In the last election, all opposition players had united together against our candidate. The unity and vote bank of the opposition is eroded now. Now, with our victory, there is a change towards positivity. Previously, DUTA had started raising controversial issues of national politics. Now, teachers believe that their issues will be resolved ,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rightwing-group-wins-delhi-univ-teachers-body-polls-after-24-years-101638034558872.html
28-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: MCD union warns of strike from Dec 13, demands pending salaries||New Delhi: Days after protests by the paramedical staff and resident doctors in two key municipal hospitals, the Confederation of MCD Employees Unions on Saturday issued a “strike notice” to the three municipal corporations of Delhi over non-payment of salaries. The group has also pushed for reunification of the three civic bodies, pointing out that there was no financial distress under the erstwhile unified corporation.The confederation, which comprises of 22 municipal workers’ unions, has stated that a series of protests will be held by individual unions during the next fortnight, and warned that it will transform into a full-fledged strike from December 13 if the issues are resolved.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the confederation has argued that since its formation in 1957, the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi had never faced a financial crisis before its trifurcation in 2012. “The confederation is persistently pursuing the vital issue of unification of three MCDs so that the problem of financial crisis could be resolved for the benefit of the citizens of Delhi as well as the better functioning of the three corporations,” said the letter, which has also been sent to the Union urban development ministry, home ministry and the lieutenant governor.AP Khan, the convener of the confederation, said that the unification is the only long-term solution to the crisis. “At least the finance departments of the three corporations should be merged so that this frequent problem can have permanent solution and suffering of thousands of employees can be ended,” he said. Khan noted that there is two- and three-month pendency of salaries and pensions in many cases. “We keep on hearing the same arguments regarding fund shortage and the blame game between the corporations and Delhi government about release of funds. Some individual unions, such as paramedical staff, nurses and junior residents in Hindu Rao hospital have already announced token strikes and protests and now we have decided to go on complete strike after 15 days,” he added. The two north MCD run civic hospitals Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospital have been witnessing three-hour pen down strike and protests from doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from last two weeks.Dr Sunil Kumar, the president of the Kasturba hospital Resident Doctors Association said that a three-hour pen down strike was started by doctors on Monday, and all the junior residents have gone on complete strike from Friday. “Right now, the senior doctors are managing the emergency services. We are hoping that nurses and senior doctors will join us from Monday. Despite repeated strikes and assurances of regularisation of our salaries, no solid action has been taken by the higher authorities to find a permanent solution to the problem. While both EDMC and SDMC have enhanced the dearness allowances of their workers, our DA remains pending from July onwards. Last month’s salary has also not been paid,” he added. One of the biggest maternity hospitals in the Walled City, the 450-bed Kasturba hospital oversees over 16,000 deliveries every year. RDA members say that the hospital is overseeing 400-500 patients every day with an average of 30-40 child birth deliveries taking place every day.Khan said there is no uniformity in releasing the salaries of municipal workers, despite several warnings from the courts. “The sanitation department workers have got their salaries. This pick and choose policy should not be in place,” he added. Indu Jamwal, who heads Hindu Rao nurses association, said that through the strike, they are demanding the 7th Pay Commission arrears, DA, two-month pending salary and filling of vacant posts.Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that an agreement has been reached with the doctors of Hindu Rao hospital and they are expected to resume services soon. “We are continuously carrying out efforts to resolve the situation. They should not go on strike for salary delays of 1-2 months when the poor patient suffers. There is delay but salaries are being cleared on a priority basis. These protests are politically motivated,” he said. He added that dearness allowance of only doctors cannot be revised and the decision will have to consider all 50,000 employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhimcdunion-warns-of-strike-from-dec-13-demands-pending-salaries-101638033898924.html
28-11-2021||Mumbai||RT-PCR must to enter Mumbai from ‘nations of concern’||All international passengers arriving at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport from “countries of concern” including countries from Africa, would be made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, and if found positive, would be sent to an institutional quarantine centre while their samples would be sent to the city’s genome sequencing lab, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) statement issued on Saturday stated.The travel history of all international passengers would be verified through their passports on arrival and would be required to proffer their travel history of the past 15 days. All international passengers arriving at the airport will be examined for symptoms of Covid-19.According to additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani the “countries of concern” include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique apart from some Middle Eastern and European countries.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to the municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday following which senior BMC officials including additional municipal commissioners Ashwini Bhide, P. Velrasu and Kakani, held a meeting later in the day with the joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nagre-Patil, airport officials and superintendents of all major hospitals as well as members of the state Covid task force, the statement issued by the civic body said.The BMC is expected to update its protocol on testing and institutional quarantine for international passengers following further instructions from the state and Central government.“The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning with airport authorities to check travel history of international passengers coming to Mumbai, basis stamps on their passport, to be checked at the immigration counter. This will be made effective right away,” additional municipal commissioner in charge of Mumbai’s civic body’s public health department Suresh Kakani.This comes in the wake of the detection of a new Sars-CoV-2 variant, referred to as Omicron and designated as a variant of concern (VOC) by the World Health Organization, which was first reported from southern African countries and has now been detected in other European countries including the United Kingdom and Germany.The state Covid task force has reportedly asked the government to especially monitor passengers from South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia and Eswatini, and send their samples for genome sequencing, state officials said.“We have shared our information related to the new variant with the central government and have also requested them to suspend the flight services from seven countries. The guidelines related to the Omicron are to be issued by the centre. We are waiting for further communication,” state public health minister Rajesh Tope said.“We have started taking their swabs and quarantine, if required, will be done. The samples will be sent for genome sequencing. There is no need of panic but due precautions need to be taken,” he said, addressing reporters in Jalna district.“We are collecting more information on Omicron. At present our focus is to ensure that passengers coming from seven countries are duly screened, tested and quarantined before letting them out into the community. We are rigorously screening the passengers coming from these countries. In fact, we want government of India to suspend flights from these countries,” Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said.“With Christmas and New Year celebrations, Mumbai is likely to see an influx of international tourists. We are on alert and prepared,” mayor Kishori Pednekar said.At present, India is only permitting flights from countries with which it has an air bubble agreement. South Africa, where the VOC was detected last week, is not one of them. A circular issued by the Centre on November 26 identified a list of countries as belonging to the “at risk” category. Starting December 15, travellers arriving from these countries would be required to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. The list includes South Africa, Botswana (where the VOC was also found) and even the United Kingdom and other European countries. An official order issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Friday stated that flights to and from countries that are considered “at risk” can operate at 75% of the schedule if there is an air-bubble agreement in place with India, and at 50% if there isn’t.The last BMC circular which laid down the protocol for international passengers arriving in or transiting through Mumbai was issued on September 1. The circular stated that passengers from the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East countries, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe were required to take a mandatory self-paid tests (RT-PCR) on arrival in Mumbai.The state government has tested more than 20,000 samples of the virus for genome sequencing since May..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/curbs-at-mumbai-airport-to-be-announced-for-international-travellers-amid-omicron-scare-101638015117815.html
