29-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC refurbishing old Metro trains with modern facilities||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started refurbishing 70 old trains, which were procured before 2007, with modern amenities such as LCD route maps, charging points and CCTV cameras midway through their life cycle. Officials said 10 trains, each of which is around two decades old, will be completely refurbished by September 2022.DMRC managing director Mangu Singh on Monday unveiled the first train refurbished as part of this project. The train, officials said, was procured in 2002 as part of the first Metro network phase. The Delhi Metro currently has around 350 trains, including the 70 which are over 14-years-old.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said the trains have a lifespan of 30 years, and that refurbishments are necessary midway through this period.A bulk of the overhaul will involve retrofit the floors, which have developed cracks, bulges and uneven surfaces.Dayal said, “Passengers often complain about uneven surfaces as well as poor aesthetics inside the coaches. The floors have now been replaced by modern fibre composite boards in order to enhance passenger safety, comfort and improve the aesthetics of the interiors coaches,” said Dayal.Each coach will now have charging points, LCD maps with real-time information, CCTV cameras, among the new features. New fire detection systems have been installed, along with provisions for the air-conditioning and ventilation system to operate on an emergency basis.Officials said each train will cost roughly ₹4 crore to refurbish, and the entire project will cost ₹280 crore. DMRC officials said that it takes around a month to complete the upgrade for each train.While the retrofitting and refurbishing work on nine other trains is on and will be completed by September 2022, DMRC officials said work on the remaining 60 will begin soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidmrc-refurbishing-old-metro-trains-with-modern-facilities-101638210568540.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh privately meets Sachin Vaze for about an hour||MUMBAI Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Monday met dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and privately spoke to him for about an hour at Old Secretariat Building in Fort, south Mumbai, from where the Justice K U Chandiwal commission is conducting its enquiry proceedings. The Chandiwal commission was set up on March 30 this year by the Maharashtra government to inquire into the allegations by Singh against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh accusing him of running an extortion racket using Mumbai Police. At around 10.30am on Monday, Singh, who is named as an accused in five FIRs, including cases of four extortion and one case under the Atrocities Act, attended his office – located on the first floor of the same building – in his capacity as commandant general of Maharashtra Home Guards. Around 11 am, he appeared before the Chandiwal Commission on an upper floor of the same building, and got a bailable warrant against him cancelled. Singh simultaneously filed an affidavit explaining that he could not appear before the commission earlier on account of health issues. He also sought exemption from physical appearance before the Chandiwal commission. Close to 10 minutes later, Singh went to the adjoining room, according to those familiar with the matter. As the commission completed formalities of cancelling the bailable warrant against Singh, the 56-year-old IPS officer met Vaze in an adjoining room. Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and lodged in Taloja jail in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, was brought to the commission’s office for cross examination. A lawyer familiar with the matter said the meeting between Singh and Vaze occurred with prior permission of the commission. However, the commission’s lawyer, Advocate Shishir Hiray, rubbished the claim. “As per my knowledge, no permission was taken from the special NIA court for any such meeting,” Hiray said, adding that Vaze is currently in judicial custody of the NIA court. Former state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s lawyers, however, took strong objection to the meeting and informed Justice (retired) KU Chandiwal about this. They pointed out that both of them face serious criminal charges, and should not be allowed to meet privately. A money-laundering case against Deshmukh was registered on May 11 this year on the basis of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) FIR of April 21. The CBI FIR was, in turn, based on allegations of corruption levelled by Singh. Justice Chandiwal, a former Bombay high court judge, said, “How can I keep watch on everything and stop them from meeting. But, to avoid such situation in the future, it is better that he (Vaze) sits in this room (where the commission is functioning from).” Taking note of the meeting between the two accused, Mumbai police on Monday conducted a quick enquiry. “An assistant commissioner of police (ACP) conducted a preliminary inquiry into the apparent lapse,” said Dr Hari Balaji N, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. “After recording statements of the police escort party – a sub-inspector and three constables – the inquiry report was handed over to Navi Mumbai police for further action, as the escort party personnel are attached to Navi Mumbai police.” After being incommunicado for several months, Singh – a 1988-batch IPS officer – had resurfaced in his hometown Chandigarh on November 24, two days after the Supreme Court gave him protection from arrest by Maharashtra police and directed him to join investigations in the pending cases against him. He came to Mumbai last week and joined the investigations conducted by the Mumbai Police crime branch and Thane police, and is expected to appear before the state CID in three cases this week. The 56-year-old IPS officer was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner this year on March 17 and was transferred to the Home Guards after Vaze was arrested in Antilia security scare and Hiran murder case. Three days later, on March 20, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, claiming that Deshmukh had been running an extortion racket using some Mumbai police officials, including Vaze, amounting to ₹100 crore a month. This accusation eventually resulted in an FIR by the CBI against Deshmukh and the initiation of money-laundering proceedings by the Enforcement Directorate. Noted criminal lawyer and former Rajya Sabha MP Majeed Memon said this meeting will be considered illegal. “If such an event (meeting) has occurred, it’s absolutely illegal as no one can meet an accused who is in judicial custody and that too when someone facing charges of heinous crimes without the permission of the concerned court,” he said. “Moreover, in this case, the person (Singh) who met the accused is himself an accused in several cases.” He added, “There are certain rules and procedures that need to be followed in such cases, and if it is not followed then the concerned court can take appropriate action, if a complaint is made.” Former IPS officer turned lawyer YP Singh said, “In such cases, the concerned court can take initiate contempt of court proceedings against the person involved in violation of legal procedures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-privately-meets-sachin-vaze-for-about-an-hour-101638210090046.html
29-11-2021||Pune||PMC spends ₹1.32 crore public fund on art plaza, still remains unused||Pune:The Mahatma Phule art plaza set up at Bund Garden bridge, a Grade-1 heritage structure, remains unused, unmaintained and closed since it was built in 2016. The plaza was developed as an interactive space to showcase and encourage local art and craft, for exhibitions and displays of art, photography, landscaping, demonstrations and awareness programmes. Now, overgrown weeds and dust beyond the gates mark this space. Civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani has appealed twice under Right to Information (RTI) Act to know why this place is still under lock and key. “Under RTI I found that ₹1.32 crore was spent at the behest of political party Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The project started in December 2014 and was completed in February 2017. Before spending the amount, no survey was done if an open-air bridge in the middle of heavy traffic is the correct place to hold exhibitions.” The art plaza was built to preserve the 100-year-old heritage bridge, built by the British in 1867, under the heritage sites mission of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Sukhrani found out that after being completed by PMC heritage cell, there was no formal handover to any PMC department. “It has never been cleaned, maintained, secured. Overgrown grass and shrubs give ideal location for illegal incidents to take place. No audit has been done by any department of PMC to see the deteriorating state of the place after ₹1.32 crores of public funds were spent.” The heritage department, Pune Municipal Corporation, confirmed of receiving two RTI complaints and clarified that the plaza was kept closed due to Covid and lack of funds. “The RTI activist has been writing to us, but we faced fund shortage. Work to clear the overgrown weeds and restore the place has started. We request art lovers to come forward and hold events at this place on weekends,” said Harshada Shinde, heritage department, PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-spends-rs-1-32-crore-public-fund-on-art-plaza-still-remains-unused-101638210088626.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Question paper leaks: Specific law proposed in UP in 2005, no action yet||Despite frequent instances of leakage of question papers or attempts in that direction, successive state governments have not implemented the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission’s recommendation to enact a law specifically to check the menace and provide for stringent punishment as a deterrent in such cases. The commission had made the recommendation in 2005.The commission had proposed imprisonment for not less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life for those guilty of question paper leaks. It had also proposed imprisonment of three years to 10 years for those attempting to leak the question papers.In its third report to the state government on September 10, 2005, the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had submitted the draft of the proposed law “The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Leakage in Examination Papers Act, 2005.”The state government had cancelled the Uttar Pradesh Teachers’ Eligibility Test (UP TET) on Sunday after authorities recovered question papers from at least 28 people who were subsequently arrested. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath warned of invoking provisions of the National Security Act (NSA) and using bulldozer against those accused of leaking the question paper.Apart from the current government, the regimes of Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, SP president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP chief Mayawati have been in office in Uttar Pradesh since 2005.“Yes, there is a need for a specific law to check leakage of question papers and punish those responsible for the same. The candidates prepare and travel long distances to appear for the competitive examinations. They are left in agony, suffering a lot physically and mentally. There are provisions in existing laws to deal with the menace. A separate law will, however, be better,” said Justice (retired) AN Mittal, chairman of the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission.“The candidates come well prepared for the examination. But for the second attempt, they are not left with the same zeal,” said Justice Mittal.“Leakage of question papers in examination is becoming rampant. It badly affects the examinees and leads to additional expenditure on the state government. This can be averted with the implementation of the report of the commission that dealt into various aspects of the issue,” said Justice (retired) Vishnu Sahai, who headed the commission in 2005 with Justice (retired) IS Mathur, the then director Allah Rahman (who also became HC judge later) and Balraj Chauhan as its members.“Of late, leakage in examination papers is becoming increasingly rampant in our state, resulting not only in a big dent in the credibility of examination system, but also lot of valuable time of students (sometimes denying them chances of appearing in competition) as papers in respect of which there has been a leakage have to be reset. On account of leakage of examination papers, enormous hardship is caused to the students and image of our state smeared,” the commission had observed in 2005.“…. The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Leakage in Examination Papers Act, 2005 be enacted by the state of UP, wherein deterrent punishment be provided for those who either themselves commit the offence of leakage in Examination Papers or abet the commission of such an offence or are a part of criminal conspiracy to commit such an offence,” it had said.It had also recommended, “Imprisonment which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall be liable to pay a fine which shall not be less than rupees ten thousand but which may extend to rupees one lakh.”The commission had said the state government, with concurrence of the chief justice of the Allahabad High Court, should constitute special courts to be presided over by a judge/additional judge who has the experience of working as sessions judge/ additional sessions judge.“The Commission is of considered view that if this is done (recommendations are implemented) there is every likelihood of decrease in leakage of examination papers,” the commission had observed in its report in 2005.Uttar Pradesh minister for law and justice Brajesh Pathak was not available for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/question-paper-leaks-specific-law-proposed-in-up-in-2005-no-action-yet-101638210028541.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Man killed for non-payment of loan in Pune||PUNE: A 43-year-old man was killed in the late hours of Sunday for allegedly skipping payment on a private loan that he had taken. The deceased has been identified as Sharad Shivaji Aware (43) a resident of Sambhajinagar, Dhankawadi. The police are on a lookout for two people in the case based on allegations raised by Aware’s friend Prashant Kadam. In his complaint, Kadam, claims that Aware had borrowed money from a private money lender and paid him back on a monthly basis. However, Aware failed to make a payment in November. According to the complainant, Aware and the moneylender met on the service road near Navale bridge around 11pm on Sunday when the lender is suspected to have killed him. “The complainant and the deceased co-owned a shop. But the loan was for personal reasons. We are looking for two suspects in the case. There are no arrests yet,” said senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. Aware was rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival. The mortal remains were sent for post-mortem to Sassoon General Hospital. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) and others of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-killed-for-non-payment-of-loan-in-pune-101638209908454.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt accepts Chakraborty report against Param Bir Singh, suspension likely this week||Maharashtra government has accepted Debashish Chakraborty committee report on departmental inquiry against former Mumbai police commissioner and senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh. The committee held him responsible for dereliction of duty in the Antilia explosive scare case. The suspension of the IPS officer is now expected to be done by the state government in the next few days.Senior IAS officer Chakraborty, in October, submitted the report holding Singh responsible for the violation of the All India Civil Services Rules. The committee has pointed at serious lapses in the handling of the Antilia case and has said that the officer, who was serving as Mumbai police chief, kept the government in the dark in the case. The committee also held him responsible for shielding officers like Sachin Waze. The report also had suggested appropriate action against Singh for violation of the services rules.According to the Mantralaya officials, Singh is expected to be suspended in the next couple of days. “His suspension has been recommended by the director-general of police for various reasons including the criminal cases registered against him. He had also remained untraceable and did not report to the duty for more than six months without informing the state government. The process of his suspension is almost complete. After acceptance of the report, the case of his suspension became stronger,” said an official.Chakraborty was asked to conduct a departmental inquiry in June on the basis of the preliminary report submitted by Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale. After the suspension, there could be a further probe. The state government cannot dismiss IAS/IPS officers since it comes under the purview of the central government. However, it can suspend the officers for a specific period. Response from Singh is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-accepts-chakraborty-report-against-param-bir-singh-suspension-likely-this-week-101638209733059.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Couple found with drugs worth ₹12.4 lakh in Pune||PUNE: A man with a previous record of drug-related cases and his wife were found in possession of drugs worth ₹12.4 lakh. The two were found with their six-year-old daughter in a car, according to the police. The two have been identified as Mohammadafzal Abdulsattar Nagori (40) and Shabana Mohammadafzal Nagori (38) both residents of Khadak in Mumbai. The two have been remanded to police custody until November 30. “On November 27, police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the anti-narcotic cell and staff were patrolling in the jurisdiction of Kothrud police station when they found a man who had a previous record of drug-related cases sitting in a Honda City car with a woman and a child,” read a statement from the crime branch. The man was found in possession of mephedrone weighing 55.970 gram which is estimated to be worth ₹8,40,000 while his wife was found in possession of charas weighing 506.10 gram and estimated to be worth ₹5,00,000. The two also had three phones, ₹3,420 cash, and other things. They were caught near an IT Park located at Chandani chowk, said police A case under Sections 8(c), 22(c), 20(b)(ii)(b)(29) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-found-with-drugs-worth-rs-12-4-lakh-in-pune-101638209548522.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Shopkeepers express shock over state’s new penalty order||Mumbai The Maharashtra government’s guidelines of imposing a fine of ₹10,000 on shopkeepers whose customers don’t wear masks or violate Covid rules have not gone down well with them. They said that this rule will lead to unnecessary fights and harassment. However, authorities point out that this is necessary as shopkeepers need to ensure that people they cater to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also said that they have also noticed that shopkeepers also hardly wear masks.The order issued on Saturday states that any shop, establishment, mall, event or gathering ‘where a member of public has a right to come and get services’ must be manned by fully vaccinated persons. All visitors and customers to such places should also be fully vaccinated.With regards to the violations, it imposes a fine of ₹500 for the erring individual while the establishments where the violations occur will be fined ₹10,000. It also warns that frequent violations will lead to the closure of the establishment till notification of Covid-19 as a disaster remains in force.Mohan Gurnani, chairman, Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT) which represents traders, said it is an absurd order. “The shopkeepers cannot force anyone to wear a mask. At the most, he can request the consumer. We don’t have statutory authority to enforce the rule. This will only lead to fights and harassment of the shopkeepers,” said Gurnani. Sachin Shah, who owns a garment shop in Hindmata cloth market, which is a famous wholesale market in Central Mumbai, said that it was meant to harass the traders. “How can a person violating the law be charged ₹500 and the premises owner who is fully masked and adhering to all regulations be fined ₹10,000 for the violation done by someone who he barely knows?” questioned Shah. Defending the order, state government officials said that the shopkeepers should cooperate with the government to tackle this Covid-19 virus. “The shopkeepers need to refuse to entertain those customers who violate the Covid-19 norms. This will send a strong message to such erring people,” said the official who refused to come on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shopkeepers-express-shock-over-state-s-new-penalty-order-101638208648642.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Bodies of young man and woman found on train track in Agra||Bodies of a man and woman tied with a cloth on their waist were found lying on railway track near Jajau railway station within limits of Saiyyan police station of Agra on Monday, railway police said.“The duo, in their twenties, seemed to been in a relationship. They consumed some poisonous substance, tied each other with a ‘duppatta’ (stole) on their waist and jumped from a moving train,” said Mushtaq Mohammad, SP Railway, Agra. They duo was found frothing from mouth, he said and added that they were rushed to Community Health Center at Saiyyan from where they were referred to SN Medical College in Agra where doctors declared them brought dead, the SP Railways said. “The bodies have been sent for post mortem. The man was identified as a resident of Kagarol area in Agra and woman was from Dholpur in Rajasthan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bodies-of-young-man-and-woman-found-on-train-track-in-agra-101638207388539.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Hathras case: High court fixes December 16 for next hearing||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has fixed December 16 for the next hearing in the Hathras gang rape and murder case even as murder victim’s family on Monday reiterated its request for relocation to Noida from a Hathras village, besides a house and a job to a family member, said advocate Seema Khushwaha, who is representing the victim’s family in court.But the state government has offered to relocate the family elsewhere in Hathras city itself and give them a house there, Khushwaha added.A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh, after hearing the case on November 25 and 26, had reserved the order for November 29. The bench on Monday fixed December 16 as the next date of hearing and passing an order.“The high court was to deliver an order in the case today but it has fixed December 16 as the next date for hearing and passing an order,” Khushwaha said.“We will wait for the high court’s order and the state government’s stand on the issue. Thereafter, any further decision will be taken,” Khushwaha said.On September 14, 2020, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped by four persons in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack.As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29.The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court took suo motu cognizance of the incident on October 1, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hathras-case-high-court-fixes-december-16-for-next-hearing-101638207088379.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Couple found murdered in UP’s Azamgarh village||A revenue department employee and his wife were found murdered with sharp edged weapons in Tithaupur village under Tarwan police station area in Azamgarh district late on Sunday night, police said on Monday.Nagina Ram, 55, an accountant in the consolidation department of Chiraiyakot in Mau district, and his wife Mansha Devi, 50, were sleeping in their house when some unidentified miscreants entered the house and escaped after killing them, Azamgarh superintendent of police Anurag Arya said. He said a case had been registered against the unidentified assailants following a complaint by the kin of the deceased. The reason for the crime was not yet clear and the police were probing the case from all possible angles, he added. Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said after Prayagraj, two more murders of Dalits were most sad, shameful and highly condemnable. “The state government must strictly stop such atrocities on Dalits with an iron hand and act firmly against the accused. This is what the BSP demands,” she tweeted. Four members of a Dalit family were found murdered in their house in Phaphamau area of Prayagraj on November 25.
29-11-2021||Lucknow||CM unveils ‘Shatabdi Stambh’ to mark 100 yrs of Lucknow zoo||LUCKNOW Only two zoological parks came up in Uttar Pradesh between 1947 and 2017 (in Lucknow and Kanpur) and now the third one was established in Gorakhpur with the aim of promoting eco-tourism and create awareness towards protecting wildlife and nature, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath during the centenary celebrations of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden here on Monday. The CM unveiled the ‘Shatabdi Stambh’ (centenary pillar) on the Lucknow zoo campus and released a postal stamp and a centenary souvenir to mark the occasion. A centenary year book of the zoo and another book titled ‘Chitron Mein Chidiyaghar’ (the zoo in pictures) were also released by him. Yogi Adityanath honoured those who made significant contributions to wildlife conservation, adopted animals on the zoo campus and distributed prizes to students who won in various competitions such as ‘mobiliography’, still photography, street plays, slogan writing, face painting, recitation, quiz, drawing and painting. Aishna Singh was felicitated by the CM for adopting Himalayan Bear and Saras. A Class 10 student at the Millennium school, she paid the adoption amount from her last three years’ savings. Emphasising on the need to protect wildlife for maintaining ecological balance, the CM said, “It is essential for human beings and animals to co-exist harmoniously in order to preserve nature. Just as the life of a human being is important, so is the life of an animal.” “I would like to extend my best wishes to the forest department for successfully planting over 100 crore saplings, which is a record in itself,” he added. “During the pandemic period, not only did we save lives of people, but also worked to save wild animals who got infected at the Lion Safari, Etawah,” said Yogi. The CM termed the plantation of 100 crore saplings in 5 years as a major achievement. “No wild animal wants to hurt human beings unless it feels threatened. When we interfere in animals’ life for our own interest, they react and cross boundaries in a natural manner,” he added. “Our state has immense potential for eco-tourism and we are working towards promotion of such areas,” he said mentioning that the department of forest and tourism can come together for the purpose. NAMING OF NEW MEMBERS During the function, four lion cubs and two leopard cubs were given names. Three male lion cubs were named Tiger Sherkhan, Abhi and Simba and one female cub was named Sakshi. One male leopard cub was given the name Tejas and a female cub was named Bhawani. The forest department will prepare a plan for establishing new zoos in Meerut and Moradabad districts as land appropriate for mini zoos was available here. “A plan will soon be submitted as the nod has been given by the state government in this regard,” said Manoj Singh, additional chief secretary, forest department while speaking at the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-unveils-shatabdi-stambh-to-mark-100-yrs-of-lucknow-zoo-101638206615448.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Portion of bridge connecting Shahjahanpur to Delhi highway collapses||A major portion of two-kilometre-long bridge connecting Shahjahanpur to Delhi highway collapsed in Shahjahanpur late Sunday night affecting traffic movement.The district administration said no casualties were reported in the incident but traffic movement on Shahjahanpur—Badaun highway was affected. “We are investigating the causes that lead to the fall of the portion of Kolaghat Bridge. An enquiry has been ordered into the matter,” said district magistrate Shahjahanpur Indra Vikram Singh. According to reports, the incident took place after pillar number 7 of the bridge that got constructed in 2009 by Bridge Corporation suddenly caved in. “A few days back a pier cap of one of the pillar had developed a problem. Engineers repaired the snag and restored the traffic on the bridge,” the DM said. He said the administration has diverted the route in order to avoid traffic jam like situation.“An alternate pontoon bridge adjacent to the old bridge along river Ram Ganga will be made in next few days,” the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/portion-of-bridge-connecting-shahjahanpur-to-delhi-highway-collapses-101638206612928.html
29-11-2021||Patna||Pregnant woman in Bihar given HIV+ve blood; sacked technician blames test kit||PATNA: The Bihar government on Sunday sacked a laboratory technician, who allegedly collected HIV-infected blood from a donor that was later transfused to a pregnant woman at the district hospital in Nalanda, 60km south-east of Patna, officials said.Senior health department officials were alerted to the possibility that the blood bank processed infected blood after a report in a local newspaper. When district health officials traced the donor, it confirmed that the donor and his wife - she was also pregnant and was to be given blood - were people living with HIV but had concealed this information when he donated blood.Santosh Kumar, the technician who processed the donor’s blood at the district hospital in Biharsharif, said he followed the procedure and tested the sample for the five mandatory screening tests for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, syphilis and malaria.“The authorities should conduct a re-test of the blood sample of the donor on the rapid screening kit and see the result for themselves,” said Kumar, insisting that the rapid screening test was to be blamed, not him.Kumar, who has been with the blood bank since 2013, said he was sacked without an inquiry because he was on a one-year contract that was due to be renewed in March 2022.The woman who was administered the infected blood and her child born on 5 November haven’t tested positive yet. Officials said they will conduct weekly tests on her and her newborn for HIV.Nalanda district civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar said he has ordered an inquiry headed by a panel of three doctors led by Nalanda Sadar hospital deputy superintendent.Dr Kumar said he has reason to believe that Santosh Kumar possibly skipped the HIV test and went by the donor’s self-declaration who claimed he was in good health.Health department officials said some staffers at the district’s anti-retroviral therapy centre possibly figured that the man has donated blood when he turned up at their centre for his dose of medicines soon after the blood donation. They did not, however, inform their supervisors.A Bihar State AIDS Control Society official who spoke on condition of anonymity said a confirmatory ELISA test should have been conducted as well. “We have an ELISA reader machine for the confirmatory test of blood samples,” the official said.Rajesh Kumar, treasurer of the Indian Red Cross Society-managed government blood bank at Biharsharif, confirmed that there was an ELISA machine but asserted that it wasn’t working in absence of testing kits. “I have written on two-three occasions to the civil surgeon for procurement and making the machine functional,” Kumar said.“It is only in advance case of HIV/AIDS that the viral load is not detected in screening, but normally such patients are so weak and thin that one can easily make out by their appearance that they are HIV/AIDS infected,” said Dr Upendra Kumar Sinha, retired chief medical officer of the blood bank at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), now the chief medical officer of the blood bank at the Mahavir Vatsalya Aspataal.On the time taken to confirm the status of the woman who was given the infected blood, Dr Sinha, blamed the government for purchasing outdated rapid screening kits.“At PMCH, we used to test blood samples on fourth-generation P24 antigen testing kits, which has a 14-day window period. However, the government has provided third-generation testing kits at Biharsharif. Such testing kits have a window period of 30-45 days from the date of being infected. These days we have modern Chemiluminescent Assay kits, with a window period of less than 5-6 days. The government should invest in them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pregnant-woman-in-bihar-given-hiv-ve-blood-sacked-technician-blames-test-kit-101638206428535.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj murder case: Kin of deceased raise doubts over police claims||A day after the Prayagraj police arrested a 23-year-old man in connection with the brutal murder of four members of a Dalit family in the district, the kin of the victims on Monday said they doubted that the arrested man was the real culprit. The police also said that one of the deceased, who was raped, was not a minor, according to the official documents accessed by them.The kin say that the motive given by the police behind committing the rape and murder by the alleged accused Pawan Saroj, a labourer, is not strong enough to prove his involvement in the crime. A 50-year-old man, his 47-year-old wife, daughter, who police said was 25, and 10-year-old son were found dead on their beds inside their home in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning (November 25) by relatives. An autopsy report suggested that they were strangled and assaulted with an axe.Claiming that there were loopholes in the work out theory of police, a brother of the man who along with his family was murdered said cops should carry out a fair investigation and no innocent should be framed or harassed in the case. Police must ensure strict punishment to the culprits who committed the crime, he said. He, who is an SSB personnel posted in Jharkhand but is in Prayagraj these days, also said it did not sound logical that the arrested suspect killed four members of his family only because his niece rejected his advances. Moreover, the accused never even met her for making any proposal, he claimed.The accused could have targeted his niece only outside instead of barging into the house and killing all members of the family, he said. He further said police claimed that the accused was illiterate, then how he was chatting on Whatsapp.“Moreover, instead of receiving messages, my niece could have blocked the number of the accused. It is not possible for the 23-year-old lean framed youth to murder four people alone. Police should have revealed the names of his accomplices as well,” he said.The kin of the deceased, howver, did not comment on the written complaint given to the police by one of his relatives mentioning a land dispute and alleged that members of an upper-caste family had issued physical and verbal threats to the Dalit family in the past. He said while his family had full faith in police, they will demand a CBI probe if they were denied justice.Addressing a press conference on Sunday, ADG zone Prem Prakash had said: “A scanning of the murdered 25-year-old woman’s WhatsApp messages revealed that she was constantly receiving messages from a number that was traced to the accused Pawan Kumar Saroj.” However, the police said they were yet to establish how he carried out the murders and who his accomplices were. Officials added that they will now take the accused’s DNA samples to gather evidence.The ADG said the education certificates accessed by them showed that woman was born in 1996 and the charges filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act will no longer be applicable.Prayagarj SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said further investigations were under way. “Police will take remand of the accused to question him in connection with the case. Police investigation is based on circumstantial and scientific evidence and justice will be ensured for the victims,” he said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-murder-case-kin-of-deceased-raise-doubts-over-police-claims-101638206128339.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||We brought light to people’s houses: UP energy minister||Launching an attack on the Opposition, state energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Monday said people used to face blackouts because of rampant corruption, commission and bad governance during previous governments and BJP government, he added, brought the state out of darkness after it came to power in 2017.Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters as a part of party’s ‘fark saf hai’ (difference is clear) campaign, he said only four VIP districts used to get adequate power during the previous regime. “Today, every district is VIP so far as power supply is concerned as all districts got uninterrupted electricity after 2017,” he said. Sharma further said now districts headquarters got round the clock power, tehsil headquarters got supply for 20 hours and villages got supply for 18 hours unlike in the past when power was supplied in shifts. “The difference is clear. The previous governments kept the state in the dark and we electrified 1.40 crore households in less than five years,” he said.The minister alleged that the Samajwadi Party government signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) because of which state got power as costly as ₹5.14- ₹11-09 per unit and raised power tariff every year burdening retail consumers. “On the contrary, our government signed PPAs under which power was available for ₹2.9- ₹4.19 per unit and we did not let the tariff increase for three years,” Sharma said.Taking about the achievement on the power generation front, Sharma said today the state’s total power production capacity was 26,937 MW which is 4000 MW more than what it was before 2017. “Despite the fact that the power demand increased from 16000 MW in 2017 to 25000 MW in 2021, we were able to meet the demand as per the roster,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/we-brought-light-to-people-s-houses-up-energy-minister-101638205468071.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Four of a family among five killed in road mishap in UP’s Prayagraj||Five people, including four members of a family, died after an unidentified speeding vehicle hit the motorcycle they were riding near Shringverpur highway under Nawabganj police station of Prayagraj district late on Sunday night, police said on Monday.As per the police, one Ramsaran Pal, 60, his son Lallu Pal, 35, Samaylal, 33, grandson Arjun Pal, 11 and one Ramchandra Pal, 55, all residents of Budauna village of Nawabganj, were returning home on a motorcycle after attending a marriage function in neighbouring Pratapgarh district when the accident took place. All of them died on the spot. Villagers informed police on spotting the bodies on Monday morning. The bodies had been sent for a post-mortem examination, the police said. Nawabganj police said a First Information Report (FIR) was lodged against the unidentified vehicle driver and efforts were on to identify the vehicle through CCTV footage. Village head Anupam Patel said kin of the deceased reached the accident site on the highway and identified the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-of-a-family-among-five-killed-in-road-mishap-in-up-s-prayagraj-101638204868117.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||School challenge: Punjab compiling videos of best smart schools||After Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia released a list of best 250 government schools in the national capital as part of a challenge on education standards in Punjab and Delhi, the Punjab education department has directed all district education officers in the state to make and share videos of the best smart schools in their areas.Dedicated WhatsApp groups have been formed at the district level, with senior education officials and school heads as their members, in order to share directions and information pertaining to it. District education officers (DEOs) have chosen the best schools from their respective jurisdictions and have further asked the school heads to make videos of their working and post them in the groups or share them with the respective DEO office.Also Read: Pargat calls Sisodia fake leader, accuses him of misleading people“We have chosen over 10 smart schools from Ludhiana. These schools have been asked to shoot 2-3 minute videos showcasing the development works done there and displaying the beauty of their premises. These videos will be submitted with the state education department, following which the best videos will be uploaded on the department’s portal after the education minister’s consent,” said Lakhvir Singh Samra, DEO, Ludhiana.Samra said that Punjab schools are ready to compete with any state or UT, as there has been a great improvement in the education standards of government schools in the state.Rakesh Sharma, district smart school mentor, Ferozepur, warned schools in his district of surprise checking by the media and the education department. “Since Punjab and Delhi’s education departments are (competing on) the educational standards and a comparison will be done between the best government schools in Delhi and Punjab, teachers are requested to complete all development and beautification works left in their schools. Media teams can visit the schools anytime,” read his message in a WhatsApp group.He added that education minister Pargat Singh will himself monitor the videos, and thus the teachers need to make the best possible videos of their schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-challenge-punjab-compiling-videos-of-best-smart-schools-101638203968175.html
29-11-2021||Bangalore||No proposal to impose lockdown, clarifies Karnataka CM amid omicron variant||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday dismissed fears in some quarters over any possible lockdown amid Covid-19 cases in some educational institutions and the detection of the omicron, a variant of Covid-19 virus in some parts of the world. Allaying the apprehensions, he made it clear that there was no proposal to impose lockdown in the State. "We have instructed adherence to strict precautions at schools and colleges, but not to close them. There is no proposal to impose the lockdown," he said. Speaking to reporters here, the chief minister urged the people not to panic about omicron, and asked them to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines. He said those arriving from the countries where omicron variant was found are being screened at the airports and that they would be allowed into the cities only if they test negative. Bommai said a negative report has been made mandatory for students from Kerala who are studying in Karnataka and a second test is being done on them on the seventh day of the first negative report. The State government is in constant consultation with experts and the Union government, and precautions are being taken according to their guidelines, he said. Replying to a question about a person who arrived from South Africa found to be having different symptoms of the pandemic, Bommai said, "The test report of the person has been sent for genome sequencing. Exact variant of the virus would be known from the genome sequencing report." Regarding the booster dose for health workers, Bommai said his government is awaiting the instructions from the Centre in that regard. "Our concern is that it is already over six months since the health workers received two doses of the vaccine. We will act according to directions from the Centre," Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-proposal-to-impose-lockdown-clarifies-karnataka-cm-amid-omicron-variant-101638202884649.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 103 new Covid cases in 24 hours||PUNE As per the state health department officials, Pune district reported 103 new Covid-19 cases on Monday. No deaths were reported due to the infection in 24 hours. Pune also saw 101,480 vaccinations on the day.The progressive currently stands at 1,160,786 out of which 1,138,750 have recovered, 20,051 deaths reported and 1,985 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 35 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 367,782 and the death toll stood at 6,972.Pune city reported 53 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 523,161 and the death toll stood at 9,217.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 15 new Covid-19 cases the progressive count went up to 269,843 and the death toll stood at 3,512.Pune also saw 101,480 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Monday and in total 13,122,099 vaccines have been ministered including 8,109,861 first dose and 5,012,238 are second dose. A total of 706 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day out of which 550 were government and 156 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-103-new-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101638202710106.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement: RBI hikes Punjab’s cash credit limit by 3%||The Reserve Bank of India on Monday allowed an enhanced cash credit limit of ₹43,297.88 crore to Punjab for purchase of paddy. Earlier, the state was allowed a cash credit limit (CCL) of ₹35,000 crore, which was later enhanced to ₹42,000 crore. In the current season, 188.26 lakh tonne paddy has arrived in the mandis for procurement so far, out of which 187.21 lakh tonne has been purchased by the four state agencies — Pungrain, Punsup, Markfed and state warehousing corporation — and the Food Corporation of India. The remaining, around one lakh tonne paddy, was purchased by private traders. “Against ₹35,600 crores worth of paddy purchased, we have so far made ₹35,211-crore payments to the farmers by crediting the minimum support price into their accounts,” said an officer of state’s food and civil supplies department. The hike in CCL is also being seen as the Centre’s nod to relax the cap on paddy purchase in Punjab, though no formal order has been received yet. Ahead of the procurement, the Union ministry for food and public distribution system had capped paddy purchase from Punjab to 168.65 lakh tonne. However, after the arrivals exceeded this limit, the state government sought the Centre’s nod to relax this cap. “We are still to get a formal nod (for increase in paddy purchase targets). The increase in CCL indicates that the Centre has agreed to our demand,” said Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. He said the government has to make payments on accruals on the paddy purchase as well, which include labour and transportation charges and dami (commission) to arhtiyas. As the state government was still to receive a provisional cost sheet from the Centre, the labour, transportation and dami are yet to be finalised. “We are expecting the cost sheet any day now,” said a food department officer. In recent years, the Centre used to provide the provisional cost sheet to the state government before the start of every procurement season. “We are pushing the Centre to send us the provisional cost sheet so that we should have a fair idea on what expenditure is allowed to us over and above the procurement,” said the officer. Other than labour, transportation and dami, rural development fund and mandi fee is also mentioned in the cost sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-procurement-rbi-hikes-punjab-s-cash-credit-limit-by-3-101638202527935.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Came to power democratically, ruling autocratically, Sena slams Modi||Mumbai Shiv Sena on Monday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his statement on dynasty politics being a threat to democracy, and said that the biggest threat to the country is coming to power in a democratic way but ruling it in an autocratic manner. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana also defended the Congress party and said it believes in democratic values. On the occasion of Constitution Day on November 26, the prime minister had criticised the Congress and said, “Party for the family, by the family...do I need to say more? If a party is run by one family for many generations, then it isn’t good for a healthy democracy. How can the parties, which have lost their democratic character, protect democracy?” The editorial said, “The biggest threat to democracy is this tendency to come to power democratically and rule in an autocratic manner. Congress party believes in democratic values. Yes, there can be political differences with Congress, but it has not sold the pillars of democracy.”The editorial further targeted Modi and said that the prime minister attacked the Congress party, which in the past 10 years has become politically weak. This suggests that PM Modi is afraid of Congress as it could be an alternative to BJP.Without naming Congress, Modi criticised the party. In the last 10 years, Congress has weakened politically. Repeatedly attacking the party means that prime minister Modi still fears Congress,” it said and added that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has received a good response from Uttar Pradesh.Further, it said that there is no difference between a family-run political party and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is controlled by people, who are under the prime minister. It said, “BJP, which once had illustrious leaders such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee, LK Advani, Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitely, Pramod Mahajan, Venkaiah Naidu, has not become a “dictatorship of one group”.” “BJP is not a ‘family party’ but in the past few years, it has become a dictatorship of one particular group. After Mr Modi became the prime minister, a leader from Gujarat was made the party chief. This arrangement was made so that the reins of the party and power remain in his hand. Congress’ reins in the hands of Gandhi family is akin to BJP’s reins in the hands of people who are under the prime minister’s thumb,” it said.As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP did not respond to criticism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/came-to-power-democratically-ruling-autocratically-sena-slams-modi-101638202287971.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow admin issues protocols for passengers arriving at its airport. Check details||Amid concerns over the spread of the omicron variant of Coronavirus, first detected in South Africa, the Lucknow administration has issued guidelines for passengers arriving at the Lucknow Airport.According to the guidelines, all the passengers showing Coronavirus-related symptoms during a thermal scanning will be subjected to a free RT-PCR test. The guidelines also state an RT-PCR test will be conducted on 10% of the passengers arriving on domestic flights on a random basis.The authorities have also said all international passengers arriving at the Lucknow airport will have to undergo a RT-PCR test and eight-day home quarantine. After eight days, their RT-PCR test will be conducted again.Further, all the international passengers arriving in Lucknow will have to provide their names, mobile numbers, local address and last destination.Many states across India have imposed similar curbs as precautionary measures in wake of the spread of the Omicron variant globally.#OmicronVariant | Lucknow DM issues protocols for passengers arriving at Lucknow Airport. Passengers showing symptoms in the thermal scanning will be subjected to free RT-PCR test. RT-PCR test of 10% passengers arriving on all domestic flights to be done on random basis. pic.twitter.com/PmzZF1BmPLOn Sunday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare also revised the guidelines for international arrivals in India and made it mandatory for passengers to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel and to submit the last 14 days travel details.The omicron variant, being considered potentially more contagious than its predecessors, has been reported in many countries including, South Africa, Britain, Germany, Israel, Italy, among others. India has not yet reported a single case of the new variant.The World Health Organisation has said that most of the cases outside Africa are travel-related even as it expects local transmission in other countries as more information becomes available.Meanwhile, India reported 8,309 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 236 related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the country's cumulative total number of infections to 34,580,832 while the death toll climbed to 4,68,790, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-admin-issues-protocols-for-passengers-arriving-at-its-airport-check-details-101638200696881.html
29-11-2021||Patna||Judge assault case: Bihar DGP submits report to HC in sealed cover||Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal on Monday submitted a status report in the Patna High Court in connection with the alleged assault on an additional district judge by policemen in Madhubani district earlier this month, officials with knowledge of the matter said.The report, submitted in a sealed cover before a division bench, will come up for consideration on December 1. The bench of justice Rajan Gupta and Mohit Kumar Shah appointed Mrigank Mauli as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter and directed the DGP to be present in the court on the next date. Additional district judge Avinash Kumar of Jhanjharpur subdivisional court in Madhubani has alleged he was assaulted by two police officers in his court chamber. Within hours of the incident, the Patna High Court took suo motu cognisance and Chief Justice Sanjay Karol set up a special division bench to hear the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/judge-assault-case-bihar-dgp-submits-report-to-hc-in-sealed-cover-101638201151979.html
29-11-2021||Patna||Winter session of Bihar legislature begins||The five-day winter session of the state legislature began on Monday on a customary note, with the chairs of both legislative assembly as well as the legislative council leading their respective houses in paying homage to the former members and other prominent personalities who passed away during the intervening period since the monsoon session. The proceedings of the state assembly began with recitation of the national anthem after which speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha announced the names of senior leaders Prem Kumar of the BJP, Narendra Narayan Yadav of JD(U), Awadh Bihari Chaudhary of RJD, Jyoti of Congress and Mohammad Ashfaq Alam of the CPI(ML) as presiding officers for the current session. He also reconstituted the business advisory committee for the smooth conduct of the short session. Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad tabled the second supplementary to the annual budget for the fiscal 2021-22 and other bills, including those pertaining to the amendments to the goods and services tax and Panchayati Raj Acts for seeking the house’s approval. The assembly later paid its tributes to sitting MLA Musafir Paswan, former MLAs Sadanand Singh, Mithilesh Kumar Singh, Janardan Sharma, Gauri Shankar Nagdansh and Hind Kesri Yadav, former MLCs Balram Singh Yadav, Khalid Rashid Saba, and Ramji Prasad Sharma, who died recently. The members observed silence to pay homage to the departed souls, after which the house was adjourned for the day. The state legislative council was also adjourned for the day after the customary obituary references of the departed leaders. Working chairman of the upper house, Awadhesh Narayan Singh, hoped that the members of the house would utilise the short session to address the public issues and as usual abstain from creating chaos on insignificant issues. Earlier, members of the left parties staged protests over recent hooch deaths and blamed the state government for failure of the prohibition law. Tejashwi attacks govt for its failure on various fronts Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav took a dig at chief minister Nitish Kumar over Niti Aayog’s latest report that had ranked Bihar poorly on various counts and blamed the “apathy” the chief minister for the poor condition of the state. Talking to media persons outside the assembly after it was adjourned for the day, Yadav said the “double-engine” government was of no use in Bihar. “One of its (Nitish government) engines had become faulty. They (ruling party leaders) say ‘15-saal bemishal’. But actually, it is ‘Badhaal 15 Saal’ for Bihar under Nitish regime. The Niti Aayog report only lends credence to the opposition’s charge that the Nitish government has failed on all fronts,” said the RJD leader. Yadav alleged the state witnessed 75 financial scams in the last 15 years. “Schemes under the seven commitments of CM, worth ₹24,000 crore, envisaging plantation, remain on papers only. Har ghar nal ka jal scheme is another major scam. Bihar has become no. 1 in poverty, crime and unemployment. Migration remains unabated. People are dying due to consumption of illicit liquor, but police personnel are raiding the wedding functions,” he said. Yadav said the RJD had decided to extend unconditional support to Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/winter-session-of-bihar-legislature-begins-101638201150569.html
29-11-2021||Patna||HIV blood transfused to pregnant woman; Bihar sacks lab tech for clearing infected blood sample||The Bihar government Sunday sacked a laboratory technician (LT), who allegedly collected HIV-infected blood from a donor that was later transfused to a pregnant woman at the district hospital in Nalanda, 63 km south-east of Patna, said officials. The health department is now keeping close tabs on the woman and child and testing their blood samples on weekly basis to see if they have been infected by HIV/AIDS. Santosh Kumar, a contractual LT of the Bihar State AIDS Control Society (BSACS), was sacked for lapses in duty. He, however, claimed that the government had acted in haste and sacked him without conducting a proper inquiry. “The authorities should conduct a re-test of the blood sample of the donor on the rapid screening kit and see the result for themselves,” said Kumar. Kumar claimed that the HIV blood donor’s sample had tested non-reactive when he tested it on the rapid screening kit, raising doubts about the efficacy of the kits bought by the state government. He also demanded that an FIR be lodged against the donor for concealing facts that he was HIV-positive and donated blood by concealing facts about his disease. The government has already ordered an enquiry into it. The Nalanda district magistrate has appointed a three-member committee of doctors, under the civil surgeon, to check for lapses and penalise the guilty. A male, with an A-positive blood group, donated blood on November 3 in exchange for one unit of blood (350 ml) for his wife, who was admitted for delivery at the sadar (district) hospital. The donor had allegedly concealed the fact that he was HIV positive and on antiretroviral drugs for the past 8-10 years. Kumar, who was on duty at the state government-run blood bank on the sadar hospital campus at Biharsharif, claimed the sample tested negative for the five mandatory screening tests for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, syphilis and malaria. The blood, thus collected, was stored in the inventory of the sadar hospital blood bank for circulation and administered to another pregnant woman, who came there for caesarian delivery on November 5. “We have an ELISA reader machine for the confirmatory test of blood samples. The officials should have cross-checked the result on the ELISA reader, before storing the infected blood for circulation” said a BSACS official, who requested anonymity. “The ELISA reader machine at our blood bank is not functional in absence of testing kits. I have written on two-three occasions to the civil surgeon for procurement and making the machine functional,” said Rajesh Kumar, treasurer of the Indian Red Cross Society-managed government blood bank at Biharsharif. The deputy superintendent of the Nalanda sadar hospital had on November 25 issued a show-cause notice to the medical officer in charge of the blood bank. He had, in turn, sought an explanation from Kumar, who replied to it a day later. Dr Upendra Kumar Sinha, retired chief medical officer of the blood bank at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), blamed the government for purchasing outdated rapid screening kits. “At PMCH, we used to test blood samples on fourth-generation P24 antigen testing kits, which has a 14-day window period. However, the government has provided a third-generation testing kit at Biharsharif. Such testing kits have a window period of 30-45 days from the date of being infected. These days we have modern Chemiluminescent Assay kits, with a window period of less than 5-6 days. The government should invest in them,” he said. “It is only in advance case of HIV/AIDS that the viral load is not detected in screening, but normally such patients are so weak and thin that one can easily make out by their appearance that they are HIV/AIDS infected,” added Sinha, now the chief medical officer of the blood bank at the Mahavir Vatsalya Aspataal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hiv-blood-transfused-to-pregnant-woman-bihar-sacks-lab-tech-for-clearing-infected-blood-sample-101638201149324.html
29-11-2021||Ranchi||Panel yet to decide on namaaz room allocation in J’khand assembly building||The seven-member committee constituted by Jharkhand assembly Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto is yet to take a decision on the controversial namaaz room allocation in the House that witnessed almost a complete washout of monsoon session as the opposition BJP was up in arms against the notification. On the last day of the monsoon session on September 9, the Speaker formed an all-party committee chaired by senior JMM legislator Stephen Marandi to review the decision of notifying a dedicated namaaz room for Muslims in the assembly building and submit its recommendation in 45 days. Marandi said he would soon be convening a meeting of the panel to discuss the issue. “In our first meeting, we had decided to seek information from legislative assemblies in neighbouring states about any such provision there. I will check with officials about the latest update and call a meeting of the committee accordingly,” said Marandi. Sources said joint secretary of Jharkhand assembly, Ranjeet Kumar, had written to assemblies of Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal seeking details of, if any, space allocation for religious prayers, functions on the assembly premises. The notification issued by Jharkhand assembly dedicating a separate room for offering Namaz on September 2 had led to a political storm in the state with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) consistently disrupting proceedings in the House during the monsoon session, doing Kirtan and chanting Hanuman Chalisa. Police had even lathi-charged BJP workers and leaders protesting near the assembly when they tried to march ahead by breaking barricades, injuring several of them. On the request of JMM legislator Sarfaraz Ahmed, Speaker agreed to form an all-party committee to deliberate on the issue and suggest move forward. The BJP, however, said they would continue with their protest until the decision is withdrawn. “If a decision is not taken, it would mean we were kept in dark just to delay the issue. Our party would continue our protest in winter session if the notification is not withdrawn,” said Biranchi Narayan, chief whip, BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/panel-yet-to-decide-on-namaaz-room-allocation-in-j-khand-assembly-building-101638201147972.html
29-11-2021||Pune||PMC rules: Multiplexes, auditoriums to continue to operate at 50% capacity||PUNE: After days of confusion, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) cleared the air with its fresh order issued on Monday stating that no fresh set of relaxations is being offered to the city.As per the PMC order, the guidelines issued by the state government will be applicable in the city even as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar made an announcement regarding some relaxations. The latest PMC order implies that multiplexes, single-screen theatres and auditoriums will continue to operate at 50% capacity, contrary to Ajit Pawar’s announcement about allowing these establishments to operate at 100% capacity.As per the guidelines issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Saturday, restrictions in terms of attendance at any programme or event will continue and that the same can only be augmented by the district disaster management authority but not diluted.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said in the order, “The state government has issued orders to resume all economic, cultural, social, sports and entertainment activities. These orders will also be applicable in the Pune and Khadki cantonment areas which fall within PMC limits. These orders will be in effect until further notice.”State guidelines have specified that in case of any programme, event or activity taking place in an enclosed space such as a cinema hall, theatre, marriage hall or convention hall, up to 50% of the capacity of the space will be allowed. In case of events or gatherings in open sky spaces, up to 25% capacity will be allowed. However, the DDMA will have the authority to decide the capacity in case of such locations gatherings or events, if not already declared formally. In addition to this, all persons connected with the organisation of any programme, event or show including service providers, participants, visitors, guests and customers have to be fully vaccinated as per the state orders. There has been clamour from theatre- and auditorium- operators and organisers of various programmes to lift the 50% attendance restriction. Hence, Ajit Pawar’s announcement was wholeheartedly welcomed by these stakeholders but later in the day, confusion prevailed after the state guidelines were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-rules-multiplexes-auditoriums-to-continue-to-operate-at-50-capacity-101638200787978.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Omicron concerns: BMC to ramp up testing, puts health infra on high alert||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday alerted all its ward war rooms, hospitals and jumbo centres amidst rising concerns over the Omicron variant of Covid-19. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed officials to ramp up daily testing to 50k samples, arrange hotels and jumbo centres to quarantine Covid-19 patients arriving from at-risk countries.Maharashtra environment and tourism minister and the guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs, Aaditya Thackeray held a review meeting with BMC officials on Monday asking them to stay on alert. Thackeray took to social media to inform, “Mumbai’s first dose is 100% complete and second dose is 72% done. We would be requesting the union government to reduce the gap between two doses, without altering our vaccine delivery schedule, so that we can complete 100% of the second dose for Mumbai by mid-January.” Thackeray urged, “Vaccines and masks are extremely crucial for Covid appropriate behaviour.” BMC has collected samples of those arriving from at-risk nations that include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique and some Middle Eastern and European countries.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “There are no cases of Omicron variant yet in Mumbai. In the last 15 days, we have got data of 466 people from Maharashtra arriving from ‘countries of concern’. Of these, 100 are from Mumbai and none of them is tested positive for Covid-19. We have taken their samples again on Monday and reports will be out by Wednesday.”Kakani assured, “In case any samples are positive, we will send them for genomic sequencing. The next 15 days are going to be crucial.”Currently, all passengers arriving from international destinations that are on the list of ‘countries of concern’ will mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test at the airport. If they are tested positive, they will have to be quarantined institutionally and their samples will be sent to a genomic sequencing lab, said civic officials. Additionally, the BMC is also arranging for hotels ranging from two stars to five stars, where citizens can be quarantined. Richardson and Cruddas campus, located at Byculla is being kept ready by the BMC to accommodate flyers who need to be institutionally quarantined but are unable to pay for the same.BMC officials on Monday also said that primary schools in the city will reopen from December 01, 2021, as per the announcement of the state government and there will be no impact on the reopening of primary schools due to the outbreak of the omicron variant. Starting Wednesday, BMC is also launching another campaign to ensure all private and public offices have fully vaccinated employees. They will launch vaccination campaigns in areas where people are not fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-concerns-bmc-ramps-up-testing-puts-health-infra-on-high-alert-101638200308138.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh appears before Maharashtra CID office in Navi Mumbai||Former Police Commissioner of Mumbai, Param Bir Singh appeared before the CID office in Konkan Bhavan building in CBD Belapur on Monday afternoon. Singh reached Konkan Bhavan by around 3.20 pm along with his advocate. According to people familiar with the matter from CID, Singh is being questioned in the Marine Drive police case. An extortion case was registered by Bhayander-based developer Shyamsunder Agrawal with the Marine Drive police. The builder alleged that Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of his former partner Sanjay Punamiya, by registering false cases against him. Throughout the questioning, CBD Belapur police provided security around Konkan Bhavan at the request of the CID by not allowing media inside.On Friday, he had appeared in the Thane Nagar police station for inquiries in connection with an extortion case registered against him. A day before that, on Thursday, he appeared before the Mumbai police crime branch for inquiries. Last week, he also appeared before the sessions court, which cancelled a non-bailable warrant issued against him on a surety of ₹15,000.After going into hiding for a month, Singh - a 1988-batch IPS officer - resurfaced at his hometown Chandigarh on November 24, two days after the Supreme Court gave him protection from arrest by Maharashtra police and directed him to join investigations in the pending cases against him.The CID is probing three separate FIRs against the serving senior IPS officer, posted as Commandant General, Maharashtra Home Guards. The questioning of Singh is being supervised by superintendent of police, CID, MN Jagtap and CID chief Ritesh Kumaar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-appears-before-maharashtra-cid-office-in-navi-mumbai-101638199948960.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Alandi set for Kartiki Ekadashi Wari, as warkaris brave MSRTC strike||PUNE The preparations for Alandi Kartiki Wari (pilgrimage) began last week and on November 30 Ekadashi and Kartiki Wari celebrations will be held in Alandi. Every year thousands of warkaris (pilgrims) from all across the state come to Alandi, but this time, due to the ongoing MSRTC strike many could not travel to Alandi. Meanwhile, preparations for the big day are on in full swing along with the Covid safety precautions by the district administration, police department and other governing bodies. As the Covid restrictions have been eased, warkaris coming from all around the state have increased. “We have done all the preparations for the Kartiki Ekadashi Wari period and for the last one week, a big rush of people have started coming to Alandi. Also, the Covid norms and safety arrangements to monitor the darshan queues have been made by the temple Devsthan committee,” said advocate Vikas Dhage Patil, president of the Alandi Devsthan temple trust. “I am from Aurangabad district and in a remote village. As there was no direct bus available to come to Alandi we had to change two private buses to come here. The MSRTC strike should end now as it is affecting the common people who cannot afford high fares of private tourist buses,” said Tukaram Andhale, a warkari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/alandi-set-for-kartiki-ekadashi-wari-as-warkaris-brave-msrtc-strike-101638199649340.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Residents conducting survey of Taljai tekdi to maintain biodiversity||PUNE: Every weekend, a group of residents from Sahakar nagar and Satara road heads towards Taljai tekdi, with books in their hands. They are part of a group of volunteers conducting a survey of Taljai tekdi, trying to understand its biodiversity and study its flora and fauna.The group began their survey in November and plan to continue for another month so that most of the area is covered. Ketaki Sathe-Kulkarni, coordinator of the survey, said, “So far, we have covered half the area and this rapid survey will give us an idea about the existing flora and fauna diversity, along with the habitats they provide and the associations which they have. This study will help us understand and anticipate the impact of development if it takes place and what we will lose.”“Ideally, our hills have dry deciduous species which include Hiwar, Pandhara Khair, Son Khair (different species of Acacia), Capparis Zeylenica, Flaucortia Indica. All these are trees with networked branches and thorns that encourage small birds such as shrike, munias, robins and bushcats to build their nests,” Kulkarni said.The tekdi also has the climber plant Dregea Volubilis which requires tall trees for support. Also, this climber forms a habitat where mammals like wild hare can hide. Kulkarni said that another dominant grass species found till date is the Apluda Mutica which stands third to fourth in terms of succession of grasses. Which means that the soil, although not of the best quality, definitely contains some quantity of organic matter.The group of residents is not only studying the flora and fauna but also actively participating in planting trees. “Following our expert advice, we have planted trees like Moha, Kanchan, Wad, Pimpal, Muchkund, Bel and Putranjiva too,” said Indranil Sadagale, member of the Sahakar Nagar Residents’ Association.The survey will also study the soil apart from various species of flora and fauna and has received the support of the Environment Club of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-conducting-survey-of-taljai-tekdi-to-maintain-biodiversity-101638199407909.html
29-11-2021||Patna||‘Trouble engine’ govt: Tejashwi slams JD(U)-NDA coalition over Niti Aayog report||The leader of opposition in Bihar legislative assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Monday called the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine ‘trouble engine’ government, attacking BJP's often-used phrase 'double-engine' government. He alleged that the government failed on all fronts.“Where does Bihar stand in the Niti Aayog report? It is at the number one position from the bottom. Whenever the CM is asked about it, he expresses his ignorance. This shows that the Bihar government is not serious about meeting the basic needs of the people. This is not a 'double engine' but a 'trouble engine' government in Bihar,” Yadav said.Yadav’s criticism of the government comes after a Niti Aayog report showed Bihar as the poorest state.“The Niti Aayog report shows the Bihar government as a failure on almost all indicators. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is running a corrupt government. There's corruption from top to bottom. Bihar stands first in unemployment, education system has been completely destroyed and health infrastructure in the state is in shambles,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He said that resentment was brewing among Bihar’s citizens due to the government’s alleged failures to stem ‘rampant corruption.’Niti Aayog’s recently released National Multidimensional Poverty Index report says that 51.91% of Bihar’s population is poor.Yadav also said that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) found that there were ‘glaring financial discrepancies’ in various departments of the Bihar government as well as ‘ irregularities and wasteful expenditure’. He said that the Rashtriya Janata Dal decided to hand over a copy of NITI Aayog and CAG reports to the chief minister Nitish Kumar. He said that the motive behind sharing it is due to the chief minister not being ‘aware’ of the recent developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/trouble-engine-govt-tejashwi-slams-jd-u-nda-coalition-over-niti-aayog-report-101638198912085.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||UP crosses 16-crore Covid vaccination mark||LUCKNOW With over 14,09,556 doses administered on Monday, Uttar Pradesh crossed the 16-crore Covid vaccination mark. In a tweet in Hindi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “Securing life and livelihood, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to provide a protective cover of more than 16 crore Covid vaccine (doses). This achievement is dedicated to the guidance of Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and hard work of health workers.”He also appealed to the people to take the “teekaa jeet kaa” (vaccine of victory).Besides, Lucknow saw the highest number of doses administered in a single day (39,500 by 7pm) this month, according to data from the health department. There were 169 vaccination booths at government health facilities and 20 in private hospitals. “Till now, Lucknow has administered over 51.43 lakh doses, including over 33 lakh first doses, which is over 87% of the target population and over 18.38 lakh second doses,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. By 7pm, UP had administered 16,10,00,969 doses, including 11,14,82,777 first doses and 4,94,27,478 second doses. “There are 86 active Covid cases under treatment in the state, of which 67 are in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. He said that 8,17,762 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered in the state on Sunday.So far, UP reported 1710387 Covid cases, 22,910 deaths while 1687391 patients had recovered, according to data from the health department. (Input from agency).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-crosses-16-crore-covid-vaccination-mark-101638198927758.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||School challenge: Pargat calls Sisodia fake leader, accuses him of misleading people||Hitting out at his Delhi counterpart Manish Sisodia, Punjab education minister Pargat Singh on Monday termed him a “fake leader” and alleged that he was misleading people by releasing “fake figures” pertaining to schools run by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital. In a series of posts on Twitter, Pargat said that Delhi deputy chief minister Sisodia, who also holds the charge of education, has released a list of 250 schools in the national capital without going into the relevant details sought by him. “I had asked him to compare Delhi and Punjab schools on the national performance grading index 2021. I think Sisodia was in a hurry to respond, but had not read what I asked for,” said Pargat Singh in a press statement released by the education department based on his messages on the micro-blogging site.Sisodia on Sunday issued a list of 250 government schools for review of education reforms in the national capital and sought a list of 250 government schools of Punjab from the his Punjab counterpart. This came a day after Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal accepted Pargat Singh’s challenge for a debate on the education system of the two states. Pargat, a former Indian hockey team captain, was given the charge of the education ministry after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the Punjab chief minister on September 20 this year. Punjab minister seeks more details“The list (of schools) that Sisodia had released should also throw light on school-wise enrolment numbers, permanent teachers and vacancies, Class 10th results and the names of principals,” said Pargat, asking his Delhi counterpart to mention the figures from the 2013-14 to 2019-20 academic sessions, “so that everyone has a clear picture”. Stating that he had asked for the same information earlier too, Pargat said: “I wonder what you are hiding.”Asserting that he will not let Sisodia get away like this, the Punjab minister further posed a series of questions to him on Twitter: If there is a decline in students, what education reform will you do? When there are no principals, who are you sending on training? When children fail in 10th, then who will go for higher education? Why to talk about infrastructure when there is no new school? “Since @msisodya ji might be reluctant to discuss these points, I will request @arvindkejriwal ji to give the complete list. Let us decide once for all who is “real” and who is “fake” Aam Aadmi (sic)”, Pargat wrote in the concluding message on Twitter. Sisodia could not be contacted for a reaction till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-challenge-pargat-calls-sisodia-fake-leader-accuses-him-of-misleading-people-101638198267681.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside order refusing restraint on Nawab Malik||Mumbai A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday set aside the single-judge bench order of November 22 which refused to restrain NCP leader and Maharashtra minorities minister Nawab Malik from posting anything against NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family. The order was set aside after the NCB officer’s father, Dnyandev Wankhede, agreed to the consent terms proposed by Malik for re-hearing of the interim application in the defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede against the NCP leader. The proposal came in response to an appeal filed by Wankhede against the single-judge order. Malik had expressed willingness for setting aside the single-judge bench order on Friday and proposed consent terms before the division bench of Justice S J Kathawalla and Justice Milind Jadhav on Friday. Wankhede’s counsel senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf had sought time till Monday to respond to the proposed consent terms. On Monday, when the appeal came up for hearing, Dr Saraf informed the bench that Wankhede agreed to the consent terms. Accordingly, the division bench struck down the single-judge order and remanded the matter back to the single-judge for a fresh hearing of the interim application. Wankhede who had filed the appeal against November 22 order, had claimed that though there were observations favouring him and his family, the court had failed to restrain Malik from posting anything against them. The order had only directed Malik to reasonably verify the material before posting it online or on any media platform. The bench hearing the appeal had also noted that the observations by the single judge in his order indicated that the content posted by Malik was malicious and hence there should have been an injunction. On his part, Malik had also expressed his discontentment with the single-judge bench order and hence placed the draft consent terms showing his willingness for setting aside the single judge bench order, as sought by Wankhede and agreed for re-hearing of the interim application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sets-aside-order-refusing-restraint-on-nawab-malik-101638197427839.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Austrian woman fourth foreign national to test Covid positive in Vrindavan||A 41-year-old Austrian woman on Monday became the fourth foreign national to test positive for Covid in the pilgrim town Vrindavan in Mathura district of western Uttar Pradesh since Friday (November 26), a health official said. The woman was residing at the same ashram in Vrindavan where the three other foreign nationals tested positive for Covid. The other three are nationals of Lithuania, Spain and Switzerland. Vrindavan, a religious town 150 kilometres from Delhi, attracts many foreign devotees.With the threat of new variant Omicron looming large, all four samples have been sent for genome sequencing to labs in Lucknow.Omicron (B.1.1.529) SARS-CoV-2 variant has been designated a “variant of concern” by World Health Organisation (WHO) after being traced in South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, besides other nations. “The woman tourist arrived in India on November 15 and was staying at Girdhar Dham, Sheetal Chayya Mandir, in Vrindavan as a Krishna devotee. The ashram has been declared a containment zone and samples of the inmates have been sent for testing,” said Dr Bhoodev, the deputy chief medical officer and in-charge of the Covid control centre in Mathura. “The woman, aged 41, is from Austria and had symptoms of Covid. All four foreigners testing positive for Covid are placed under treatment in isolation,” he said.“The health department is taking no chances and devotees arriving from foreign nations are subjected to sample testing. Samples of 30 foreign devotees at ISKCON temple in Vrindavan were also sent for testing,” Dr Bhoodev stated. All the four foreign nationals who tested positive in Vrindavan arrived in India on tourist visas in mid-November.A woman, aged 30, from Lithuania was the first to be found infected with Covid there on Friday (November 26). A Spanish and Swiss national each also tested positive thereafter. Mathura district now has four active cases of Covid and all are foreign nationals from Europe. On November 20, a footwear manufacturer from Agra tested positive after returning from Poland. The samples of the footwear manufacturer have been sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing and the reports are awaited.The first Covid positive case in Uttar Pradesh had been reported from Agra on March 2, 2020. That patient had returned from Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/austrian-woman-fourth-foreign-national-to-test-covid-positive-in-vrindavan-101638197247640.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Draw inspiration from paralympics medal winners: UP governor||LUCKNOW Governor Anandiben Patel on Monday said that idea, innovation and ability to take risk in life would help students overcome all their woes and a combination of these three would help them become more useful for the nation. Speaking at the eighth convocation ceremony of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMRU), she asked divyang students (with special needs) to draw inspiration from participants of the Tokyo Paralympics who won medals and brought laurels to the country. She also lauded bureaucrat Suhas LY, who became the first-ever IAS officer to win a medal at the paralympics, saying he is a role model for many. Gautam Buddh Nagar district magistrate Suhas L Yathiraj had secured a silver medal in the final of the men’s singles badminton SL-4 event at the Tokyo Paralympics 2020 held on September 5 this year.As many as 145 medals were awarded to 115 students (65 female and 50 male) at the eighth convocation ceremony of DSMRU. Among these, 16 were bagged by 12 students with special needs , said vice-chancellor RKP Singh. Addressing divyang students, the governor said, “If God has taken something from you, he has also given immense potential to you to overcome it. It is heartening that 12 students with special needs are among the medal winners. Visually impaired Arvind Kumar Rathore received Dr Shakuntala Misra Memorial Gold Medal for securing 76.80% marks, the highest by any student at the undergraduate level. He got two other gold medals. Rathore pursued BA with English, history and political science. “I want to become a teacher because they are the nation builders. I want to help children with special needs,” he added. Visually impaired Sanjay Verma got two medals, including Dr Shakuntala Misra Memorial Gold Medal for securing 78.95% marks, the highest at the post-graduate level (MA history). He also bagged Amit Mittal Memorial Gold Medal. He lost eyesight in 2014 due to brain stroke when he was in Class 11. He too wants to become a teacher and is now preparing for UGC NET. The governor appealed to students and society at large to voluntarily donate organs as it would help others lead a normal life. She also asked students to donate blood. They were urged to keep their nearby areas clean and help the state capital notch first rank in cleanliness. UP minister Anil Rajbhar also addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/draw-inspiration-from-paralympics-medal-winners-up-governor-101638196107995.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab election: Sidhu corners Kejriwal over promises made to women, teachers||Hitting out at Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for promising ₹1,000 per month to all women if voted to power in Punjab, state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday called it a “lollipop” and questioned that how many women have been given a similar sop in the national capital. Sidhu also targeted Kejriwal on jobs created for teachers in Delhi, days after the AAP leader had promised to regularise services of temporary teachers in Punjab. After contesting the Punjab assembly elections for the first time in 2017 and emerging as the main opposition, the Kejriwal-led party has announced a slew of promises in hopes to make more gains in the 2022 elections. A day after Kejriwal accused leaders of the Congress, BJP and SAD of constantly bashing his party over these announcements, Sidhu slammed him, invoking an iconic movie dialogue: “Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones at others”. Series of Twitter posts In a series of posts on Twitter, Sidhu targeted the Delhi CM for not having one woman in his cabinet. “@ArvindKejriwal Ji you talk of women empowerment, jobs & teachers. However, you don’t have one woman minister in your Cabinet. How many women in Delhi get ₹1000 despite revenue surplus left by (former Delhi CM) Sheila Dikshit Ji !! (sic),” tweeted Sidhu. He said women’s empowerment means mandatorily engaging women in every step of electoral process, like the Congress is doing in Punjab, and not in giving “lollipops”. On the issue of teachers, Sidhu accused the Kejriwal government of filling vacant posts by engaging guest teachers. “On teachers and jobs, in 2015 there were 12,515 job vacancies of teachers in Delhi, and in 2021 there are 19,907 such job vacancies of teachers in Delhi… and you are filling most of the vacant posts by just guest lecturers,” said Sidhu. He further questioned Kejriwal about eight lakh jobs and 20 new colleges his party had promised in 2015, dubbing them as “failed guarantees”. “On the contrary, the unemployment rate of Delhi has increased by almost five times in the last five years,” he alleged in another Twitter post. Second attack in a week This was Sidhu’s second big attack on the AAP within a week. Earlier on November 24, targeting the AAP over its sop announcements ahead of the Punjab elections, Sidhu had said people won’t fall prey to populist measures without the backing of a policy framework, defined budget allocations and implementation metrics. He had then said true leaders do not give “lollipops” and instead focus on building the foundations of society and economy. Kejriwal has also promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household, 24-hour power supply and free treatment and medicines at government hospitals if the AAP forms the government in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-election-sidhu-corners-kejriwal-over-promises-made-to-women-teachers-101638195867658.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Ashok Saraf to receive PIFF award||Pune: Veteran film and television actor Ashok Saraf will be honoured with the “PIFF Distinguished Award” for his contribution to Indian cinema. He will be presented with the award on the inaugural day of the 19th Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) held between December 2 and 9. Maharashtra’s cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh will be the chief guest for the inauguration function, said Dr Jabbar Patel, festival director of PIFF. Ravi Gupta and Samar Nakhate from the organising committee of PIFF were also present on the occasion. PIFF, the official film festival of Maharashtra government, scheduled to be held in March 2021, was postponed due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The festival will showcase over 127 curated films from 57 countries at multiple venues, including PVR at Pavillion Mall on Senapati Bapat Road, Inox (Camp) and NFAI auditorium cinema halls, with mandated standard operating procedures (SOP) in place, according to organisers. The inaugural session will take place at Anna Bhau Sathe auditorium on Satara Road at 5pm on December 2. With the theme of the festival this year being contribution of corona warriors, representatives of various governmental organisations would be felicitated at the inauguration ceremony. The dignitaries include Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and Sassoon General Hospital dean Dr Murlidhar Tambe. The opening film for this edition of PIFF would be “The Women” from Mongolia screened after the inauguration function at NFAI auditorium on December 2. The jury for this edition of PIFF would comprise A Sreekar Prasad (India), Andrej Kosak (Slovenia), Antonio La Camera (Italy), Goran Radovanovic (Belgrade), Gyorgy Baron (Budapest), Luong Dinh Dung (Vietnam), Mania Akbari (Iran) and Suman Mukhopadhyay (India). The repertoire The films screened during the festival include opening film 1, world competition 14, Marathi competition 7, student competition 20, global cinema 57, international retrospective: Kim Ki Duk 4, Indian retrospective: Soumitra Da 3, Indian cinema 11, Marathi cinema today 6 and tribute 4 films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ashok-saraf-to-receive-piff-award-101638195447594.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Tikunia violence: Hearing on bail application of three accused today||LAKHIMPUR KHERI Hearing on the bail applications of three accused in the Tikunia violence case (FIR number 219) will resume in the court of district and sessions judge, Mukesh Mishra, on Tuesday.Rinku Rana, Ullas Trivedi and Dharmendra Banjara, who are among the 13 accused, including main accused Ashish Mishra, arrested during investigation of FIR number 219, had moved their bail applications in the court of district and sessions judge, after their bail from the lower court had been rejected on November 2.According to district government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi, during the October 18 hearing on their bail, the prosecution had urged the district judge to grant them some more time to complete the case diary as some forensic reports from FSL were still awaited.District judge Mukesh Mishra had deferred the hearing till October 30 following the request by the prosecution.The Tikunia violence in Kheri district on October 3 had left eight people dead.These included four farmers and a local journalist who were allegedly mowed down by an SUV while two BJP workers and a driver were allegedly lynched in subsequent violence.Two FIRs (numbers 219 and 220) were lodged in both cases while special investigators arrested 17 people in both cases – 13 in FIR number 219 and four in FIR number 220.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tikunia-violence-hearing-on-bail-application-of-three-accused-today-101638195207628.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||UP TET paper leak: STF trying to connect the dots||LUCKNOW After several arrests across the state, the investigation into the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test (UPTET-2021) question paper leak revolves around ascertaining at which point the examination process was compromised and the group involved in it, said UP police officials on Monday.The Special Task Force (STF), investigating into the nexus behind the paper leak, had on Sunday arrested 29 people from five districts for comprising the examination process and recovered question papers from some of them. Eighteen people were arrested from Prayagraj, four from Lucknow, three each from Shamli and Ayodhya while one person was arrested from Kaushambi.The STF ADG, Amitabh Yash, said multiple teams were working on the case and trying to find how the question papers were compromised. Another police official said the question papers were leaked nearly 12 hours before they were taken to different examination centres in the state. There is maximum possibility that the papers were leaked at the examination agency level or at the treasury, where they were kept before distribution and the entire probe was revolving around the same, he said.“We are trying to connect the dots in the entire chain involved in comprising the exam process. Many people have been detained and are being questioned in this connection,” he added. Earlier, ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had said photocopies of question papers were recovered from those arrested in Lucknow, Shamli and Kaushambi. Those held in Shamli revealed that they had arranged 10 copies of question papers for ₹5 lakh through some people in Mathura around 6.30pm-7pm on Saturday and they were selling it to examinees at ₹50,000 per head. He said 60 examinees were in touch with the gang for the question papers.The state government had cancelled the UPTET-2021 scheduled on Sunday after the paper leak came to fore and decided to reschedule the exam within a month. As many as 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to appear in the exam scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centres across 75 districts of the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath issued a stern warning against those involved in the paper leak and said the National Security Act and the Gangsters Act would be invoked against the culprits and their properties will be seized and houses bulldozed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-tet-paper-leak-stf-trying-to-connect-the-dots-101638194847742.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||In Covid times, rites of passage and resilience||The Covid-19 era has taught us two important lessons, one about the transitory nature of life and the other about resilience. It has never been easy to cope with the loss of a loved one. People are known to have gone insane or taken their own lives under depression from such a loss. Those who suffered such loss will easily identify with the following lines of poet WH Auden: ‘He was my North, my South, my East and West,My working week and my Sunday rest,My noon, my midnight, my talk, my song;I thought that love would last forever: I was wrong’ My first brush with such feelings took place when my brother, younger to me by 10 years, departed suddenly, shattering us all. The grief reduced us to living corpses for a few days, till we boarded a train to Haridwar to immerse his mortal remains in the holy Ganges. A middle-aged couple sat on the adjoining seat with a red pouch containing the remains of their only newlywed son. Listening to their story, we forgot our own grief momentarily. Reaching Haridwar, we found the railway station abuzz with mourners carrying the mortal remains of their respective kin. It was a great grief-dampener when we realised that we weren’t alone. At Kankhal Ghat, the flow of the river was fast and furious. Standing in icy cold and transparent waters, amid chanting of mantras by the priest, I let go of the brittle bones of a bright scholar, consigning the same to the mighty river after holding them close to my chest for a few seconds. Soon, he mingled with his Maker, while I kept looking on for some time. Watching scores of others doing the same thing, I took it as something that did not seem unusual which happened only to us. Reaching Har-ki-Pauri, the family priest took us to his house in a narrow bylane near the ghat. He opened his ledger to show us names of an array of elders who had signed in it when they came here. My father recognised the entry he made in the fifties when he came to immerse the remains of my grandmother. There were signatures of his own great-grandfather in Urdu, who had come due to a similar unnatural death of his young son in the 19th century. Meeting so many relatives in the oblong register was like a family reunion. It was a revelation too, that life is not static. It flows like the Ganges. One comes here in happier times for a picnic, lets down one’s hair to have fun and frolic in its frothy waters, unmindful of this final inevitable moment of surrender that is always waiting in the wings. My head bowed in reverence to our common forefathers who devised this system of coping with such happenings in life. I wondered, how we, who had lapsed into living corpses sprang back to life after coming here. The crux of Indian culture lies in numerous rituals, which may or may not improve one’s future life, but definitely helps to rekindle the extinguishing flame when all seems to have been lost, including one’s will to live. vinodk60@yahoo.co.in The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-covid-times-rites-of-passage-and-resilience-101638194307815.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||HC: Weight of blotter paper to be included while weighing LSD||Mumbai: The Bombay High Court has held that the weight of blotter paper will be considered part of contraband seizure and the paper ought to be included while weighing Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD) for prosecution under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The HC on Monday set aside the special NDPS court order of April 2021 wherein it had directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to reweigh the 31 blotter papers weighing around 0.62 gms containing LSD dots that were seized from alleged drug peddler Anuj Keshwani to determine the actual quantity of the drug present sans the blotter paper. The single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite Dere while hearing the appeal filed by the NCB against the special NDPS court order had been informed by additional solicitor general ASG Anil Singh and advocate Shriram Shirsat that as the blotter paper was also consumed along with the drug its weight had to be taken into consideration too. The ASG had referred to an apex court judgement in Hira Singh vs Union of India case wherein the weight of the mixture of drugs had to be considered along with the neutral substance and not just its pure form. However, advocate Rizwan Merchant and Gayatri Gokhale argued on behalf of Keshwani that the 0.62 grams seized from their client included the weight of blot paper, along with LSD dots. Merchant had argued that the blotter paper was not a mixture as regarded by the SC judgement and the FSL report had not stated the weight of 31 blot papers. As per the NDPS Act, 1985, the commercial quantity for LSD is 0.1 grams. In light of this submission by Merchant, the special court had directed the NCB to resend the 31 blotter papers to FSL Gujarat to ascertain the actual weight of the LSD seized from Keshwani. In September 2020, Keshwani had been arrested by the NCB and a total of 585 grams of charas, 270.12 grams of ganja, 3.6 grams of Tetrahydrocannabinol and 0.62 grams of LSD were recovered and seized from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-weight-of-blotter-paper-to-be-included-while-weighing-lsd-101638193647360.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||The heroic ‘dastaan’ of 1971 war!||“We very well know the 1971 war between Indian and Pakistan resulted in liberation of Bangladesh. Indian Army, Navy and Air Force won the war for India which was the biggest and swiftest war India had won since independence,” narrated dastaango Himanshu Bajpai and Pragya Sharma. The duo was presenting the story of India-Pakistan war at ‘Kissagoi 1971’ at Lt Puneet Nath Datt Auditorium at Lucknow Cantonment organised by Surya Command and Military Literature Festival. “93,000 people surrendered, which was the second biggest surrender after the Second World War. India won the war in just 13 days starting from December 3 and ending on December 16—the day which is celebrated as Vijay Diwas,” said Himanshu. After the war, four Param Vir Chakra were conferred upon Lance Naik Albert Ekka, Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon, Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal and Major Hoshiar Singh Dahiya. Audience was glued to the presentation by the duo. Bajpai and Sharma narrated the story of the Battle of Longewala where 120 Indian soldiers led by Major Kuldip Singh Chandpuri fought for the whole night with 3,000 Pakistani soldiers accompanied with 60 tanks. “The regiment knew if they lose this post Jaisalmer will be captured. They laid landmines and fought a fierce battle and in the wee hours, Indian Air Force fighters came in action and changed the face of the battle.” Dastaango narrated the tension that build up during the Battle of Hilly in which 100 Indian soldiers lost their lives. The tale, of sinking of Pakistani submarine PNS Ghazi that came to destroy INS Vikrant but fell trap to Indian tactics near Vishakhapatnam port, mesmerized the audience. They also told the audience about how the INF Khukri fell prey to Pakistani submarine attack near Diu on December 9. The final narration revolved around the surrender of Pakistani commander Gen AAK Nazi to Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, GoC-in-C Indian Eastern Command. Many war veterans, retired officers and others were present on the occasion. Three similar events have been held at the same venue and final one will be held on Tuesday. Himanshu, Pragya’s dastaan finds place in PM’s ‘Maan Ki Baat’ Sunday was a special day for the dastaango duo Himanshu Bajpai and Pragya Sharma. During the Man Ki Baat address Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned their dastaan on Rani Durgawati that they narrated at Janjati Gaurav Divas Saptah held at Katni, Madhya Pradesh on November 21. In his address the PM said, “Sathiyon ne ek yaadgaar dastangoi karyakram ki jankari di hai. Ismain Rani Durgawati ki adamya sahas aur balidaan ki yaadein taaza ho gai.” Soon, Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also tweeted about the mention of dastaangoi. He also mentioned about Bajpai and Sharma and their other narration about Rani Laxmibai. “The mention of storytelling in PM’s and defence minister’s talks, will make this art form popular and take it to the masses. This is an ancient art form and storytelling has been part of our history. Hope more people come forward and tell stories which are part of our culture,” Bajpai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/the-heroic-dastaan-of-1971-war-101638193349743.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Labourer killed in hit-and-run case in Pune||PUNE A 52-year-old labourer died after he was mowed down by an unidentified vehicle along the Mumbai-Satara highway stretch in Wakad on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Nishad Lakshman Shenai, a resident of Mandar Society in Sahakarnagar. Shenai was crossing the highway on foot at around 11:45pm on Saturday close to spot where the intercity buses halt. An unidentified vehicle hit him and the driver fled from the spot, said officials. “Passersby rushed him to the hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. He was a labourer who was heading home after work. The vehicles on the six-lane highway often tend to overspeed. We are on the lookout for the driver,” said sub-inspector Tukaram Khadke of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)(c), 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Hinjewadi police station. Woman killed after speeding truck hits bike A woman who was riding pillion with her husband was killed after their two-wheeler was hit by a speeding mixer truck in Hadapsar, along the road connecting Pune to Solapur on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Manjiri Kaple (58) while her husband has been identified as Ramakant Kaple (60) both residents of Green Woods in Manjri. The driver of the mixer truck has been identified as Dnyaneshwar Baban Shelar (27) a resident of Barshi in Solapur. He was arrested by the Pune city police. A case was registered against Shelar at Hadapsar police station. However, he was granted bail by the local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labourer-killed-in-hit-and-run-case-in-pune-101638189987387.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Doctors see an increase in viral infections among children||Mumbai Doctors in the city are noticing a spurt of viral infections among children. Amid the ongoing pandemic and the threat of the new SARS-CoV-2 variant Omicron, doctors said that parents should immediately seek medical advice instead of wasting the initial days of symptoms with self-medication at home. “We are seeing a lot of upper respiratory tract infection as well as lower respiratory tract infections among children since the past few days,” said Dr Bela Verma, head of the paediatric department of state-run JJ Hospital. “The increase is marginal at the moment. We are ruling out Covid-19 in all patients as the SARS-CoV-2 remains in circulation. But almost all our patients have tested negative for Covid barring one,” she said. According to Dr Verma, three out of 10 paediatric patients are coming with viral ailments. “We have been admitting children with lower respiratory tract infections as they have some breathing difficulty along with cough and fever. They are treated with oxygen therapy, bronchodilators along with other supportive treatments,” said Dr Verma. Doctors said that Mumbai’s air quality and the layers of smog seen over the past several days, has also resulted in worsening of respiratory illnesses, especially among adults and paediatric patients with existing lung ailments. On November 16, south Mumbai recorded worst air quality levels than Delhi, with Colaba’s air quality index touching 345, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Infectious disease specialist Dr Neeraj Tulara from LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai said that they have been witnessing an increase for the past two weeks. “Dengue cases have come down significantly in the last two weeks. There are also not many Covid cases. Nearly 60% to 70% of patients coming to the outpatient department have a common cold, flu or viral fever,” said Dr Tulara adding that common flu is highly contagious as it spreads through respiratory droplets and surfaces. “One infected child can it spread to a cohort in the school. Parents should educate their children and make sure that they don’t send their children to school or to play if they have any symptoms of flu,” he said. Doctors said that adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask and washing hands can help in curbing the spread of common flu as well. In wake of the new Covid-19 variant, the task force is likely a convene a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the re-opening of schools. “We have given a go-ahead for Covid-19 vaccination for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years,” said Dr Bakul Parekh, a member of the paediatric Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctors-see-an-increase-in-viral-infections-among-children-101638189867219.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Court grants bail to Nawab Malik in BJP worker’s defamation suit||Mumbai An additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) at Mazgaon on Monday granted bail to Minority Development minister Nawab Malik in connection with the defamation complaint filed against him by BJP worker Mohit Bharatiya. The NCP leader on Monday appeared before the metropolitan magistrate court pursuant to summons issued to him. When ACMM Parvez Mokashi asked Malik about the allegations levelled against him, he claimed, “I haven’t defamed anybody. I have evidence and will produce the same before the court.” Bharatiya alleged that Malik, in a television interview after the cruise ship drug bust case, had said that Bharatiya’s brother-in-law, Rishabh Sachdeva, was also on board the cruise when it was searched by a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team led by the agency’s zonal director, Sameer Wankhede on October 2. However, Malik added that due to Bhartiya’s influence, Sachadeva was let go. Malik also allegedly said that Bharatiya met Wankhede on October 7 at an undisclosed location. He said that he would circulate the video clip of the meeting, but it never saw the light of the day. Bharatiya said that Malik misused his dominant position of being a cabinet minister to target the NCB, as the agency had arrested and is prosecuting his son-in-law in a drugs case. Faiz R Merchant, who had argued for Mohit Bhartiya, submitted that Malik maligned the image of his client and defamed him. On the other hand, Malik’s counsel Ramesh Dube Patil argued that several complaints have been filed against Bharatiya, as he had defrauded people to the tune of ₹1,100 crore and after the fraud, changed his name from Mohit Kamboj to Mohit Bharatiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-grants-bail-to-nawab-malik-in-bjp-worker-s-defamation-suit-101638189627503.html
29-11-2021||Patna||West Bengal gold trader robbed in Saran by five men posing as cops||Five armed men posing as cops intercepted a West Bengal gold trader on the National Highway 722 at Garkha police station area, around 12.30 am on Monday and robbed ₹20 lakh cash from him, officials said. According to the victim Deepak Das, the suspected cop robbed him on the pretext of frisking his luxury car on the suspicion of liquor smuggling. Das told HT that he and his driver were returning to Kolkata via Muzaffarpur after collecting cash from small gold shop keepers. “When we reached near Phurshatpur weighing scale, around 12.30 am, five persons including two men in police uniform stopped the car. Accusing me of peddling IMFL, a man came and asked me to come out. When I came out, another man introduced himself as a senior cop and asked me to keep my bag full of cash aside as they wanted to frisk my car, they said they have inputs that we are liquor smugglers. As soon as I took out the cash, they snatched it with my mobile phone and car’s key. They ordered us to sit in the car, saying senior cops will reach shortly to interrogate us,” said Das, adding that as he pleaded innocence, they returned his bag, saying nothing objectionable was found in it. After 30 minutes, Das got down from the car and started searching them but the miscreants sped away. Das somehow reach Garkha police station and informed the incident after which the police swung into action and a search operation was launched after cordoning off the entire area. Police said Das was a supplier of gold and silver ornaments to the jewellery shops and wholesalers in Saran. “We have formed four teams to crack the case. Teams are scanning the CCTV footage. We are also trying to get the registration number of the vehicle. Traders from whom the collection was made are also being questioned. We will soon work out the case and recover the money,” said Saran SP Santosh Kumar. Earlier in 2017, armed criminals shot dead businessman Avatar Singh (50) of Taran Taran in Punjab and looted gold jewellery worth around ₹40 lakh from him at Bhagwan Bazaar area in Chhapra town of Saran. Avatar’s relative Sarvajeet Singh (52) was also shot at several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/west-bengal-gold-trader-robbed-in-saran-by-five-men-posing-as-cops-101638188129485.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks for caution on Covid front as world faces fresh threat||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked people to remain cautious as the world was facing a fresh Covid threat. His remark appeared to be a reference to the new Covid variant Omicron, which has been classified as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation (WHO). No case of the Omicron variant has been detected in India so far.Yogi Adityanath was speaking at a mass marriage programme organised by the district administration at Padrauna in Kushinagar district where 2503 couples tied the knot under the Mukhya Mantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana on the premises of a college.He applauded the couples for wearing masks as precautionary measure under Covid protocol. Nearly 125 crore Covid vaccine doses had been administered in India, he said, adding that 16 crore doses were administered in Uttar Pradesh.“Both the country as well as state has managed to control the spread of coronavirus under the leadership of PM Modi, but it’s necessary to remain cautious and vigilant as the world is facing a fresh threat of Covid-19. Along with the Covid protocol of using mask and maintaining a minimum distance of six feet, we need to ensure vaccination for ourselves. Those who have not taken the vaccine till now should go for it without any further delay,” Yogi said.Yogi Adityanath also said his government provided free ration and medical assistance to people during the pandemic.Blessing the newly wed couples, the chief minister said mass wedding was a revolutionary movement aimed at stopping social evils like child marriage and dowry system.Nobody had ever thought that marriage of poor people would be solemnised in such a wonderful way that ministers, public representatives and even the CM would attend it, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-for-caution-on-covid-front-as-world-faces-fresh-threat-101638188127126.html
29-11-2021||Other||Capt Amarinder calls on Khattar on day Lok Sabha passes Bill to repeal farm laws||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at his official residence in Chandigarh on Monday. Also read: 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for rest of Winter Session for ruckus in AugustThe meeting came on a day when the Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed by the Lok Sabha. “This was a simple courtesy meeting with Khattar Sahab,” Capt Amarinder Singh told reporters later. The former Congress leader is hoping for a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab assembly elections. Capt Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Charanjit Singh Channi replaced him as chief minister. After his unceremonious exit, Capt Amarinder Singh launched the Punjab Lok Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/capt-amarinder-calls-on-khattar-on-day-lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-repeal-farm-laws-101638185907193.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik gets bail in defamation case||A local court on Monday granted bail to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik in connection with a defamation complaint filed against him by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary Mohit Bharatiya. Malik appeared before the -court after summons were issued to him. He told the court he has not defamed anybody. “I have evidence and will produce the same before the court.”Bharatiya filed the case after Malik told a TV channel that the former’s brother-in-law was also onboard a cruise ship from which the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) allegedly recovered drugs last month. Malik claimed due to Bhartiya’s influence the latter’s brother-in-law was let off. Bharatiya, in his complainant, rubbished Malik’s allegation that he met NCB officer Sameer Wankhede on October 7, at some undisclosed location. Malik has said he has a video clip of the meeting.Also Read: On Malik’s ‘trying to frame him in false cases’ comment, BJP has these questionsBharatiya said Malik misused his position as a minister to target the NCB as the agency arrested his son-in-law in a separate case.Faiz R Merchant, who appeared for Bhartiya, submitted Malik maligned his client’s image and defamed him. He said there is not even an iota of truth in Malik’s allegations.Malik’s counsel, Ramesh Dube Patil, argued several complaints have been filed against Bharatiya and he was a fraudster. He added the Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation have registered cases against Bharatiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-gets-bail-in-defamation-case-101638184886878.html
29-11-2021||Other||Goa govt decides to ‘re-examine’ permission for repair of bungalow co-owned by Shaina NC’s husband||The Goa government has decided to re-examine the permission to construct a bungalow reportedly by Manish Munot, husband of BJP national spokesperson Shaina NC and a local collaborator named Suvarna Lotlikar, wife of Goa Cricket Association chief Suraj Lotlikar, following controversy over the construction, officials said. Opposition parties and activists have raised questions over the way permission was granted.Shaina NC, however, said some people were “needlessly” trying to create controversy and added that the high court has validated the permission granted. “I have absolutely nothing to do with it. Some people are needlessly trying to create controversy,” she said.The High Court in September 2020 ruled in favour of the builders. “The petitioner has obtained permission from every single authority by disclosing the factual position at the site… There are approved plans placed on record which have not been disputed (by the respondents before the court),” the High Court said in its order. Suvarna Lotlikar moved the court in June 2020 against the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) order to cancel permission for construction. The controversy emerged as the new bungalow was reportedly being constructed barely metres away from the UNESCO recognized heritage precinct of Old Goa claiming that an old dilapidated structure was being repaired. Located squarely within the protected heritage area and sharing a boundary with the St Cajetan’s Church and a few hundred metres away from the Sé Cathedral at Old Goa, the two-storeyed structure could not have been permitted, activists say.No permissions for fresh constructions are allowed within the 200-metre radius from a notified archaeological structure. However, the builders applied for repair/reconstruction claiming that there existed a previous structure that was destroyed out of disuse and adverse events that they were seeking to rebuild. “I have asked the concerned the department -- the TCP department, the Panchayat department -- to check the documents and if it is illegal then it should be shut down,” Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday.The Save Old Goa Action Committee, which started the campaign against the ‘illegal’ structure, had claimed that the permissions were taken to repair a house and purported pictures of the old building needing repair was actually of an existing palatial ancient old bungalow at Parcem in Goa’s northernmost taluka of Pernem, 50 km from the site, where the repair work was to be done.The committee said at the construction site there was a small ‘shed’ known as loja in Portuguese that was used to store coconuts. The builders, however, described loja an old house that was destroyed and sought permission to repair it, the committee said.“This is a case where Lotlikar has secured permission from various authorities by misrepresentation and fraud. This construction is coming up overriding the objections of the office of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) This is a case of gross misuse of power by the State Government to favour a powerful and influential party. Lotlikar could not have obtained any permission from any Authority even for repair or renovation to any house, which was not even existing in the property,” the Save Old Goa Action Committee has said. Members of the committee have now begun a hunger strike demanding the demolition of the structure.The claims of the committee were confirmed by the archaeological superintendent of Goa circle K Amarnath Ramkrishna in a letter to Arvin Manjul Director (Monuments- II), Goa, who had initially granted permission for the repairs. “The applicant claims that the house in the photograph existed in survey No. 4/1 village Ella (Old Goa) before it was destroyed in a storm in the year 1992. However, …to verify the fact of the matter, this office… visited Parcem village in Pernem taluka... During the inspection, it is found that the photograph submitted by the applicant is false and the claim of the existence of the house in Survey No. 4.1 of village Ella, before the year 1992 is false,” K Amarnath Ramkrishna, superintending archaeologist of the ASI Goa Circle had said in his report to his superiors in Delhi on January 2020.As the superintending archaeologist at the site with the Old Goa precinct under his care, Ramkrishna began sending notices to the builders that they were using the repair licence to expand and construct a new structure well beyond the scope of the permissions they had sought. In a series of communications sent between February and June 2020 when the structure was being built, the ASI authorities directed the builders to remove the poles erected at the site of the said structure within 24 hours while reminding them that the permission granted is restricted only for repairs to the existing hut, without any horizontal or vertical expansion.They are further directed to submit several documents, including approved plans, photographs while asking the builders to maintain the status quo until all this is complied with while calling for a joint inspection. In the meantime, Ramkrishna was issued transfer orders providing further ammunition to those protesting the project. The stop-work order that the ASI had issued was challenged before the Bombay High Court at Goa by Suvarna Lotlikar who claimed before the Court that her project was completely legal. Lotlikar claimed that she wasn’t undertaking any activity beyond the conditions in the permissions/approvals/NOCs issued by various authorities and said the ASI has no powers or authority to either misconstrue the permissions already granted or introduce further conditions that can obstruct the petitioner from undertaking the works.The High Court ruled in favour of the builders and said the petitioner has obtained permission from every single authority. “The ASI (local unit) was not justified in issuing the impugned communications which, to some extent, seek to virtually reopen or revisit the permission which was issued by the competent authority. Under the guise of supervision, the local ASI could not have usurped such powers unto themselves. In particular, we neither understand, nor appreciate the demand for title documents, or styling of the said structure as some ‘hut’, or requiring the petitioner to restrict the works to the ‘hut’. For all these reasons, the impugned communications are liable to be set aside,” the High Court said in an order passed in September 2020. After the high court order, the construction resumed and Save Old Goa Action has decided to move Supreme Court against the court order. And, with elections approaching the Congress and the Trinamool Congress supported the issue claiming the approval process was manipulated. From within the BJP, the pressure has mounted with environment minister, Michael Lobo, asking Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to revoke permissions for the structure within two days failing which he along with his supporters will join the protests.“I have written a letter to the chief minister and have spoken to the party president and he has told me he will look into it. The permission was given in 2016 and the construction started in 2020. I will see that we take this case to a logical end. We will fight for it. The Town Country will follow due process and ensure that all permissions are withdrawn,” Lobo told reporters on Friday.A day later, Goa’s deputy chief minister and in-charge of the town planning department, Chandrakant Kavelkear, said he has asked the department to revoke the permissions after examining the matter and blamed his predecessor Vijai Sardesai of Goa Forward Party for issuing permissions. “I have asked my department to revoke the permissions. The local village panchayat is also withdrawing the no-objection certificate to construct,” he said.Sardesai, however, said that permissions were granted in 2016 during the tenure of former CM Laxmikant Parsekar when he wasn’t in government, and that “insinuating his role is an attempt to confuse and obscure the truth which then Goa Government and the current one, both with full majority, in an untenable position. “Do not dispute the facts and do not hoodwink Goans,” Sardesai said.For now, members of the Save Old Goa Action Committee have vowed to continue with the hunger strike until the structure is deemed illegal and demolished. With the hunger strike coinciding with the feast of St Francis Xavier that will be held on December 3 and with an election next year, the ruling BJP is on the backfoot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-govt-decides-to-re-examine-permission-for-repair-of-bungalow-co-owned-by-shaina-nc-s-husband-101638184588812.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Two years in opposition, is BJP’s response floundering?||Two years may not be an adequate period to peruse the performance of those in power since the mandate is for five years. But in Maharashtra, parties that came to power in 2019 did not originally enjoy the mandate nor were they all-natural allies. So, when the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress as part of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) managed to complete two years in office on Sunday, it was in itself an achievement.But what about Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which emerged as the largest party to be a natural claimant for power and yet ended up in opposition? After 24 months out of power, the BJP now finds itself grappling with its own issues and losing its grip over the narrative it tried to set months ago as a series of crises hit the MVA government.If there is a lot to assess when the MVA is completing two years in office, the opposition’s performance in Maharashtra may not have been up to the mark despite BJP being aggressive, which has increased bitterness between the government and the opposition.The opposition’s main task is to hold the government accountable and to convince people about the shortcomings of those in power to increase their base. BJP’s response in the past few months has been lacking in this regard. If it has attempted to push Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation to corner on issues of governance, the recent actions by central agencies against some MVA ministers have overshadowed.After action against former home minister Anil Deshmukh in a case of extortion of ₹100 crore from restaurants and bars, the MVA has been able to successfully create a perception that central agencies are being misused in Maharashtra against its ministers. There is a sense of victimhood that the MVA is trying to play up to generate sympathy among people.For some BJP leaders, harping regularly on a tune of “this government will collapse in a few days” hasn’t helped its cause a bit. It has in fact dented its image of an unbeatable force with a ‘development first’ agenda especially when MVA’s record of initiating major infrastructure projects has been extremely poor.If the government is perceived by many as lukewarm to big projects, the BJP has failed to corner it further after initial success when MVA shifted Metro car shed, changed the site for the proposed airport in Purandar and showed reluctance to the bullet train.In Pune, the BJP hasn’t been able to raise its voice on the airport issue no matter how crucial the project is for the city that contributes most in Maharashtra after Mumbai in employment and revenue. The other projects like the outer ring road in Pune hasn’t progressed anywhere while work on Metro rail has slowed with deadlines missed twice for starting commercial operations at least on priority stretch.The government on its part has cited Covid-19 as an excuse for its inability to start new projects or delay in carrying out existing projects. But it hasn’t handled the Covid-19 situation well, particularly in Pune, which was worst affected. The BJP on its part has not been able to highlight that well no matter government’s focus was only restricted to Mumbai when Covid-19 cases surged during the second wave and people were dying without beds in hospitals or oxygen. The BJP’s tally in the state assembly is 106, an increase of one legislator after it won Pandharpur polls. In the MVA, the Shiv Sena has 56 seats, the NCP has 53 and the Congress has 44. In Pune, six out of eight legislators are from the city. The Member of Parliament (MP) is also from BJP while the civic body is also being controlled by it. Yet, BJP’s record of highlighting lacunas of this government has so far been poor.The recent communal riots in places like Amravati, Nanded and Malegaon has provided the BJP with an opportunity to regroup by looking to monopolise Maharashtra’s Hindutva vote-bank through discrediting the Shiv Sena as a secular party. How much it succeeds will be visible in the coming civic elections at 13 cities including Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur.The municipal elections hold vital importance for the BJP and their results may determine how the MVA trajectory from there on moves as much as the factional politics in the party eventually shapes up. And to win these polls, the BJP has to re-establish itself as powerful opposition, unconcerned about how long will MVA government but how it can force the government to improve the lives of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-two-years-in-opposition-is-bjp-s-response-floundering-101638183146831.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Langar Baba Jagdish Lal Ahuja passes away||Chandigarh’s Langar Baba, Jagdish Lal Ahuja, who was known for serving free food to poor patients and attendants outside Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for the last 21 years, died on Monday. He was 86. Also read: Badal loyalist Harjinder Singh Dhami is new SGPC chiefAhuja, who was recently awarded the Padma Shri for social work, was battling cancer for the past few years and breathed his last at 9.30am on Monday. Even on the day of his death, the langar service continued as per his wish and poor patients and attendants were fed. After the post-mortem at PGIMER, the body was taken to his house in Sector 23 and the cremation was carried out at Sector 25. Born in Peshawar, Ahuja moved from Pakistan to Patiala with his family during Partition in 1947. At 12, he was a refugee overnight. He started selling boiled candy to help his family make ends meet. In 1956, the family moved to Chandigarh. Here, he sold bananas and became prosperous. In 1981, he began giving back to society. Having organised ‘langar (community kitchens)’ across the city, Ahuja moved to serving free food outside PGIMER, Sector 12, and Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 in 2001. Since then, he has been distributing meals to people daily. It was only during the Covid-19 pandemic that the langar service was discontinued for four days but he managed to get permission from the Chandigarh Administration to continue the noble cause. In 2015, Ahuja sold his seventh property worth ₹1.6 crore to arrange money for his noble initiative. He has sold six other such properties worth crores to ensure that poor don’t go to bed on an empty stomach. Sandeep, who distributes food on behalf of Ahuja outside PGI, told reporters that Langar Baba had called him home on Sunday evening and had said that the sewa (service) should continue even on the day he died. A few days ago, he had bought ration for months and stocked it up in a house in Sector 26, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-langar-baba-jagdish-lal-ahuja-passes-away-101638182366833.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Badal loyalist Harjinder Singh Dhami is new SGPC chief||Harjinder Singh Dhami, 65, a low-profile Akali leader from Hoshiarpur district, was on Monday elected president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), replacing Jagir Kaur at the helm. Also read: 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for rest of winter session for August ruckusOnce again, the chief of the apex gurdwara body is from Punjab’s Doaba region. Dhami is the SGPC member from Sham Churasi segment and hails from Piplan Wala village in Hoshiarpur district. His predecessor belongs to Begowal town in Kapurthala district of Doaba region. A Badal family loyalist, Dhami is a lawyer with a clean image as a religious and political leader. He has served the SGPC for the past 25 years. He is the Badal family’s legal counsel in a case of alleged forgery of the constitution of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Former chief minister and Akali patriarch Prakash Singh Badal was recently summoned by the court in this case. Earlier, Dhami belonged to the camp of former SGPC chief, the late Gurcharan Singh Tohra. On the eve of the annual poll session of the General House at the SGPC headquarters, Teja Singh Samundri Hall here, the gurdwara body members owing alligence to the SAD, which enjoys a majority in the House, had authorised party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to choose the president and other office-bearers. He sent the names to the House on Monday for its formal approval. Of the 162 SGPC members, 130 attended Monday’s session. Outgoing SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhittewad proposed the name of Dhami for approval of the House, but members from the opposition, including Balwinder Singh Bains and Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, demanded polling with secret ballot by fielding their candidate, Mithu Singh Kahne Ke. Dhami secured 122 votes and was declared elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-loyalist-harjinder-singh-dhami-is-new-sgpc-chief-101638181526950.html
29-11-2021||Indore||Search for woman from Botswana in Madhya Pradesh amid omicron variant||A search is reportedly underway in Madhya Pradesh for a woman from Botswana who arrived in Jabalpur on November 18. Since the first cases of the omicron variant of Coronavirus were detected in Botswana, travellers from the country are being tracked and made to follow recently issued guidelines for Coronavirus.Jabalpur chief medical and health officer Dr Ratnesh Kurariya said they were informed by an official from the Botswana Embassy that the woman is in isolation at a military organisation in Jabalpur. "We have asked him to share her mobile phone number and her local contact,” the officer was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The officer said efforts were on to find the woman, identified as Khuno Oremeet Selyn, in line with guidelines issued by the Union government's health surveillance to check the spread of Covid-19.Dr Kurariya said the woman came to Jabalpur from Delhi, going by the records shared by the Union government. The location of her mobile number mentioned in Jabalpur's Dumna airport record was traced to Delhi.The investigation conducted by police so far suggested that the phone has not been moved out of Delhi since the last one month, the PTI report said.Meanwhile, the officials are also examining CCTV footage of the Jabalpur airport to find the woman. Information is also being gathered from hotels in Jabalpur and neighbouring districts, the official said.As part of the surveillance process, the Central government was regularly providing lists of visitors coming to Jabalpur from abroad, Dr Kurariya said, adding last month, 164 people from the United Kingdom visited Jabalpur and they were contacted and their health status was checked.The World Health Organisation (WHO) last week described Omicron as a “variant of concern” and it is being feared that the strain could bypass the current vaccines and prolong the Covid-19 pandemic.On Monday, the world health body also warned that the risk related to omicron is "very high" and the strain is likely to spread internationally at a very high speed and could possibly have “severe consequences”.The omicron variant was first detected in South Africa. Till now, India has not reported any cases of the variant. However, the Centre said on Monday that two clusters are under investigation in Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/search-for-woman-from-botswana-in-madhya-pradesh-amid-omicron-variant-101638180378298.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Ban on construction, entry of trucks to stay as Delhi’s air quality worsens||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai issued a set of new rules on Monday in a bid to curb pollution levels in the Capital. The minister said Delhi will continue to ban entry of trucks barring those engaged in essential services till December 7. E-trucks and CNG trucks will be allowed to enter.Gopal Rai said that construction and demolition activities in the Capital will continue to remain banned until further notice. “ ₹5,000 each will be given to all construction workers,” Rai said. “Non-polluting construction activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry will be allowed,” Rai said.The minister said that Delhi will continue to observe the practice of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ in order to tackle vehicular pollution till December 18.Delhi continues to suffer as the air quality index failed to improve in several parts of the city. Air quality remained in the ‘severe’ category in these areas - Mundka, Wazirpur, NSIT Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. The AQI in most areas remained in the ‘very poor’ or ‘poor’ category.“Experts have said low temperature and low wind speed have led to stagnant conditions and that Delhi’s air quality is likely to remain very poor in the coming days. The situation can improve if it rains, as predicted by the India Meteorological Department,” the minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.An HT report showed that the air quality in the Capital remained in the ‘severe’ category for the third consecutive day on Sunday. Weather agencies predicted the air quality will continue to remain between “very poor” and “severe” categories as the wind speed will fall starting December 1.The Supreme Court earlier asked the Centre, Delhi governments and governments of the NCR states to file their replies to show compliance with directions issued by the commission on air quality management to curb pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ban-on-construction-entry-of-trucks-to-stay-as-delhi-s-air-quality-worsens-101638179979010.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Omicron: Sisodia says can’t lower guard, Centre, states to monitor variant||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday the Centre apprised the Delhi Development Management Authority (DDMA) about the omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that the guard should not be lowered irrespective of how deadly the variant is.Addressing a press conference on Monday, Sisodia said, “Experts from the Centre have provided DDMA details that they have so far gathered about the new variant. The Centre said that it is keeping a watch and states have to ensure the same. We should not lower our guard irrespective of how deadly the variant is, or how much effectiveness a vaccine has against it.”Sisodia added that if Covid-19 cases increase due to any reason, the Delhi government has made necessary arrangements keeping in mind the crisis faced during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May this year.On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from countries that have been affected by the omicron variant.Also Read| Stop flights from Omicron-affected countries: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM"Our country has fought a tough fight against coronavirus for the last one-and-a-half years. We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern from entering India," Kejriwal said in his letter to the Prime Minister.He added that a delay in stopping flights might prove to be harmful if a variant-infected person enters India.The omicron variant of Covid-19 had been initially identified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a 'variant of concern'. However, the WHO said on Monday that the risk related to the variant is 'very high'.Detected first in South Africa, the omicron variant has a higher number of mutations and has been spreading very quickly.Till now, India has not reported any cases of the variant. However, the Centre said on Monday that two clusters are under investigation in Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-sisodia-says-can-t-lower-guard-centre-states-to-monitor-variant-101638172742611.html
29-11-2021||Kolkata||TMC to expand political base across Northeast for 2024 polls: Mukul Sangma||Meghalaya TMC leader Mukul Sangma said that Mamata Banerjee's party is looking forward to expanding its political base across the Northeast ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.The former Meghalaya chief minister, who recently switched over to the TMC along with 11 other Congress MLAs, told PTI in an interview that the political dynamics in the entire region is going to change with him quitting the grand old party."I have been holding talks with leaders from other states in the region. They have been calling me up following the political decision that we have taken. This indicates that they are looking for something new in their respective states," he said.The six-times MLA said that former assembly speaker Charles Pyngrope is likely to be TMC state president, while he, as the legislature party leader, will focus on taking on the government head-on, as well as expanding the party in other neighbouring states.The 12 TMC MLAs have left for Kolkata on Sunday to meet party chief Mamata Banerjee and other senior leaders to finalise the roles of Sangma and Pyngrope.Noting that his joining a new political party was long overdue, Sangma said that the 'lahe lahe' (slowly slowly in Assamese) attitude of Congress has resulted in an exodus of its leaders."It's always good to have a new party in the game as it generates new interests. Anyone aligning himself/herself with a political organisation has a purpose. The TMC leadership in the state is 'tight' with unanimous vision and responsibility," the two-time chief minister said."Politics is a tough job, and when you decide to be a politician, you assume upon yourself a responsibility that revolves around creating acceptability at all levels," he said.Exuding confidence that the people of Meghalaya will have no problem in accepting TMC, Sangma said that the party is not new in the state. Former Lok Sabha speaker and Chief Minister Conrad Sangma's father P A Sangma was once elected as a TMC MP from Tura constituency in western Meghalaya.Asked if the people of Meghalaya will accept TMC under the new dispensation, Sangma said, "I trust my people. I know them. My trust and confidence give me strength."Sangma, however, said that providing an alternative also means that a lot of hard work needs to be put in."There is no time to rest. The 2022 Meghalaya assembly polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are very crucial," he said.Sangma said that the TMC is focussing on the need to implement the Inner Line Permit (ILP) in Meghalaya in the backdrop of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)."The demand for implementation of ILP in Meghalaya has become louder after CAA because there is an anticipated scenario that awaits to be unfolded," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-to-expand-political-base-across-northeast-for-2024-polls-mukul-sangma-101638174539111.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Our alliance will win Punjab assembly polls, says Amarinder Singh after meeting Haryana CM||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said membership drive for his new party was going great and predicted a victory for his alliance camp in the state in the upcoming Assembly election.Talking to reporters after paying a visit to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence, Singh said it was only a courtesy meeting.“Our membership drive is going great, wait for the time. We (with our allies) will form the government (in Punjab),” Singh, who officially quit the Congress earlier this month weeks after resigning as the chief minister, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.It was a courtesy meeting with Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar: Former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh Our membership drive is going great, wait for the time. We (with our allies) will form the government (in Punjab), Amarinder Singh added. https://t.co/VVCBkSiIH0 pic.twitter.com/9ojxbmxVWNSingh had earlier said that his new party, Punjab Lok Congress, may go for a seat-sharing arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the next assembly election. He had also said that he would think of a tie-up only after the Narendra Modi-led government repealed the three contentious farm laws.The three bills are scheduled to be repealed once they are passed in both houses of Parliament during the ongoing winter session. It passed earlier in the day in the Lok Sabha without any discussion amid an uproar by Opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-alliance-will-win-punjab-assembly-polls-says-amarinder-singh-101638174223637.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid: 12 more test positive at Thane old age home in Thane, tally touches 67||Twelve more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at an old age home in Maharashtra’s Thane district.With this, the total figure of infected patients in Matoshree old age home in the district’s Bhiwandi taluka climbed to 67, a report by news agency ANI said.“Around 67 people, including five staff members, were found Covid-19 positive at an old age home in the Bhiwandi area of Thane district,” said Dr Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon of Thane Civil Hospital, adding that of them 59 had been fully vaccinated against virus.On Sunday, officials said that 55 people were found to be infected at the old age home. The district administration has already declared Sorgaon village in Bhiwandi Taluka, where the facility is located, as a containment zone.Among the patients, 41 were found to be suffering from co-morbidities, the district administration said in a statement on Sunday.Thane has so far recorded nearly 5,70,000 cases and 11,581 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Sunday, 108 cases were reported while there was no report of fatality.Besides the Covid-19 cluster in the old age home in the Bhiwandi area, Thane is also staring at a possible outbreak of the omicron variant.A resident of the Dombivali area in the district, who came back from South Africa on November 24, has tested positive for Covid-19. An official said it is not yet confirmed whether the man was carrying the variant.The man didn’t come in contact with anyone after returning from South Africa, Dr Pratiba Panpatil, medical officer of the Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC), told reporters on Sunday.Dr Panpatil said the patient has been admitted to the Art Gallery isolation centre of the KDMC.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is likely to impose a seven-day institutional quarantine for passengers arriving directly from South Africa or transiting through the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-12-more-test-positive-at-thane-old-age-home-in-thane-tally-touches-67-101638164681083.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Police to man Atal Tunnel at Rohtang as BRO heads for Shinku La||A year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened the strategic 9.02-km Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass, the defence ministry’s Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has asked the Himachal Pradesh government to take over its security as it prepares to move ahead to bore another tunnel at a height of 16,580 feet at Shinku La. Also read: Farm Laws Repeal Bill passed by Lok Sabha, Congress leaders not happyThe BRO has written to the government to upgrade security of the all-weather tunnel located at a height of 10,171 feet, connecting Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley. Earlier, the valley would be cut off for six winter months every year due to heavy snowfall at Rohtang. The state government has set up a high-level committee, comprising additional director general of police, State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, SP Singh, Atal Tunnel chief engineer VK Singh, Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar, Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg, inspector general of police, intelligence, Daljeet Singh Thakur and State Disaster Management Committee director Sudesh Mokta to prepare a comprehensive plan for the security of the tunnel. “The plan, to be submitted within two months, will be designed to meet any exigency, whether blast, earthquake, fire or avalanche,” said a member of the committee, requesting anonymity. In 2020, state director general of police Sanjay Kundu had constituted a panel that had visited Jammu and Kashmir’s Jawahar Tunnel in Banihal and the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Tunnel at Chenani-Nashri to study the security set-up adopted by J&K Police. The committee proposed multipurpose barriers at Solang, 14 km down the South Portal at Dhundhi, and at Telling near the North Portal in Sissu. Tunnel maintenance stays with BRO The BRO will, however, continue to maintain tunnel, while the security will be with Himachal Pradesh Police. The BRO will be digging a 4.25-km tunnel 3km before Shinku La between Lahaul valley and Ladakh’s Zanskar valley. Shinku La is 40km from Darcha, a village in Himachal’s Lahaul on the Manali-Leh highway. The BRO is building the Darcha-Shinku La-Padum-Nimu road as an alternative to connect Ladakh with Himachal Pradesh. This will be the third highway connecting Ladakh with the mainland after the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh and the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highways. The Manali-Padum-Nimu road or Darcha-Padum-Nimu road will become all-weather after the completion of the Shinku La tunnel. This will be the safest and shortest road to reach Leh. The Darcha-Padum-Nimu road has only one pass, Shinku La. Shinku La tunnel project report by Dec-end The detailed project report for the tunnel will be completed next month-end. The Rail India Technical and Economic Service Limited (RITES), that provides consultancy and technical services in infrastructure and transport projects across the country, has already conducted the feasibility survey. Atal Tunnel chief engineer VK Singh said that the tender for the construction of the Shinku La tunnel will be floated in April. “We want to execute the work on the tunnel as soon as possible,” he said. With China flexing its military might along Indian borders, the defence ministry is concentrating more on this new road as it will facilitate military movement even in winter. Otherwise, both Manali-Leh and Srinagar-Leh highways get blocked following heavy snowfall for six months a year. The defence ministry had earlier planned a 13.5-km tunnel under Shinku La, but the proposal was rejected in May. Instead, it gave a nod to the 4.25-km tunnel near Shinku La.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-police-to-man-atal-tunnel-at-rohtang-as-bro-heads-for-shinku-la-101638169346648.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Authorities to trace co-passengers of SA returnee who tested Covid-19 positive||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said it will trace and test passengers who travelled with a 32-year-old South Africa returnee from Delhi. The returnee tested positive for Covid-19 and is under isolation. He landed at the Mumbai Airport on November 24 from Delhi via Dubai.Officials said the man’s sample was taken at the Delhi airport and later allowed to board a flight. After arriving in Mumbai, he went home in a cab while his sample tested positive for Covid-19.A BMC official said they will trace and screen the passengers, who sat in rows around the infected passenger. “We will also certainly trace the cab driver with whom he went to Dombivali from the Mumbai Airport.”Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials said the man was put in institutional quarantine on Sunday and is stable. “We have tested the family of the South Africa returnee...and they all have reported negative. The passenger is also stable now and his reports of genomic sequencing are awaited. We are doing contact tracing in coordination with BMC. For now, things are under control,” said Pratibha Panpatil, Health Officer, KDMC.South Africa is among the countries classified as “at-risk” following the detection of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The World Health Organisation has dubbed Omicron a variant of concern after early evidence showed it could be more transmissible, and resistant to immunity from past infection or vaccination.BMC officials said around 466 people have come from countries of concern over the last two weeks. Of these, 97 were contacted and none is positive. The BMC is expected to test on Monday at least 97 travellers. It has issued an advisory requesting people to take more precautions and said all international passengers arriving at the Mumbai airport from “countries of concern” will undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19. If found positive, the passengers will be sent for institutional quarantine and their samples would be sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/authorities-to-trace-co-passengers-of-sa-returnee-who-tested-covid-19-positive-101638168865924.html
29-11-2021||Mumbai||Bailable warrant cancelled against Param Bir Singh, asked to deposit ₹15k in CM relief fund||The commission investigating corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday cancelled a bailable warrant against ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The commission took the step once Singh appeared before Justice KU Chandiwal during the day. The one-member panel further asked the former top officer to deposit ₹15,000 in the chief minister's relief fund within a week for not appearing before it earlier.The commission was formed in March this year to probe the allegations levelled by Singh against the then home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader.Singh, through his lawyers, filed an affidavit before the commission stating that neither does he have any evidence to produce before it nor does he want to cross-examine any witness in the case.The panel had earlier fined Singh on multiple occasions for failing to appear before it and issued a bailable warrant against him.Singh, who was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare episode, had alleged that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in the city.Declared absconding by a court here in an extortion case, Singh surfaced in public last week after six months and appeared before the Mumbai crime branch to record his statement.The Supreme Court has granted him temporary protection from arrest. Singh appeared before Thane police on Friday in connection with an extortion case filed against him and some other police officials on the complaint of a local builder. The IPS officer is facing at least five extortion cases in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bailable-warrant-cancelled-against-param-bir-singh-asked-to-deposit-rs-15k-101638167602707.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI in ‘severe’ category; mercury may drop to 10°C||Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the severe category on Monday morning as the mercury was likely to plunge to 10 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly AQI at 7 am was 407. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 405 in the severe category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.PM2.5 and PM10 were the major pollutants in Delhi’s air.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said the local surface winds in the city may lead to a slight improvement in the air quality on Monday. “Local surface winds are likely to increase moderately on 29th and 30th that increases the dispersion of pollutants leading to slight improvement but AQI remains in ‘very poor’ category.” It added from December 1, wind speed and temperatures were likely to decrease and reduce ventilation. Safar said this will lead to a slight deterioration in air quality. “Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants. The share of stubble burning related pollutants in Delhi’s PM2.5 is 3 %.”Also Read: Temperature continues to fall in ChandigarhMainly clear weather with shallow fog was expected on Monday while the maximum temperature was expected to reach 27 degrees Celsius. A minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 26.8 degrees Celsius were recorded on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-in-severe-category-mercury-may-drop-to-10-degrees-c-101638155964457.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi's peak power demand in winter may go up to 5,400 MW, surpassing last yrs||Delhi's peak power demand this winter can go upto 5,400 MW, surpassing the peak winter demand of both 2019 and 2020. Last year, it had peaked at 5,021 MW and 5,343 in 2019.The peak winter power demand in BRPL and BYPL areas had reached 2,091 MW and 1,107 MW respectively during last winter. This year, it is expected to reach 2,315 MW and 1,140 MW for BRPL and BYPL respectively.According to officials, "BSES discoms are fully geared to ensure adequate power availability for its around 46 lakh consumers during the winter months. The back-bone of BSES' power-supply arrangements during the winter months includes long-term agreements from power plants; including Hydro and Delhi-based gas-fuelled generating stations."Additionally, BSES is also receiving 440 MW of solar power from SECI, 250 MW of wind power, 25 MW from Waste-to-Energy. It is also being helped by 118 MW of roof-top solar power installed on roof-tops in South, West, East and Central Delhi, said officials.A BSES official said, "Apart from these, BSES discoms are using avenues like banking, reserve shutdown, power exchange and ensuring sufficient spinning reserves to dispose of surplus power as well as ensuring reliable power supply. In case of any unforeseeable contingency, BSES discoms will buy short-term power from the exchange which is available at economical rates.''''Adding to these, efforts are the advanced load-forecasting statistical and modelling techniques, which are helping the discom accurately forecast the power demand. BSES discoms will also bank surplus power with other states, which need additional power during the winter months. This banked power will be available during the summer months.'' he added.It is further said that BRPL proposes to bank upto 452 MW with states like Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. On its part, BYPL is expected to bank upto 200 MW with states like Meghalaya, Sikkim and Uttarakhand from whom it had taken the quantum during the summer months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-peak-power-demand-in-winter-may-go-up-to-5-400-mw-surpassing-last-yrs-101638153180045.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen today, air quality in city still in ‘very poor’ category||Schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Delhi, that have remained closed for over two weeks due to hazardous air quality levels in the national capital, are set to reopen on Monday. Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai had on Wednesday (November 24) announced the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s decision to reopen educational institutions after the air quality levels in the city showed improvement.The Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi on November 13 announced that schools and educational institutions would be closed for a week’s period to avoid the exposure of students to dangerous air quality levels. Construction activities were also banned during the period and offices were directed to adopt work-from-home as much as possible.While the ban was initially imposed for a week, it was further extended due to plunging levels of the air quality index (AQI) in the city. Schooling was continued fully on the online mode, as was the case during the Covid-induced lockdowns.Also read | Little breathing space: Third day of ‘severe’ air in DelhiThe decision from the Delhi government to halt physical classes came after the Supreme Court expressed concerns over high pollution levels and exposing school-going children to dangerous conditions. The top court had suggested a two-day lockdown as an immediate measure to the Centre to help in tackling air pollution. Following this, Kejriwal called for an emergency meeting in which the decisions to shut schools and halt construction activities were made.However, after another high-level meeting on Wednesday last week, Rai announced that the schools and other institutions would be reopened on Monday (November 29). Also, as part of its efforts to compensate construction workers who have been affected by the ban, the Delhi government had announced that a sum of ₹5,000 would be deposited in the bank accounts of each worker, news agency ANI had earlier reported.From installing smog towers to launching traffic related measures such as the ‘red light on gaadi off’ campaign, the Delhi government has adopted many measures to tackle air pollution. Rai and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have urged the public to rely on public transport rather than private vehicles.Also read | Challenge accepted: Sisodia issues list of 250 Delhi schools to compare with those in PunjabMeanwhile, the overall air quality still remained in the ‘very poor’ category in Delhi. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said that slight improvement in conditions are on the cards with the local surface winds likely to increase moderately on November 29 and 30 that would increase the dispersion of pollutants.“From 1st December wind speed and temperature are likely to decrease reducing ventilation leading to slight deterioration of air quality. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants. The share of stubble burning related pollutants in Delhi’s PM2.5 is 3%,” SAFAR said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-today-air-quality-in-city-still-in-very-poor-category-101638145759454.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh | Constitution Day marked at Govt College of Yoga Education and Health||As part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, commemorating 75 years of independence and to mark the adoption of the Constitution of India, Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Chandigarh, organised a one-day NSS camp and an extension lecture on “The various features of the Constitution, Constitutional Values and Fundamental Principles of the Indian Constitution”.The lecture was graced by Justice Shri Hari Pal Verma, Lokayukt, Haryana and Former Justice Punjab and Haryana high court. “The Constitution of India’ lies at the foundation of the world’s largest democracy. This is the supreme law in the country’s democratic framework which has three pillars Legislative, Executive and Judiciary all is having their own duties. The Constitution is also the fountain head of our democratic system of governance and our guiding light,” he said. He laid special emphasis on the right to good health and urged everyone to adopt yoga in their lifestyle and lead a happy life in individual interest and in the interest of society at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-constitution-day-marked-at-govt-college-of-yoga-education-and-health-101638145104079.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||LIP MLA Bains trains guns at political rivals||Days after his meeting with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Moga, Lok Insaaf Party chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains trained his guns at the Congress and took potshots at its leaders. Taking a dig at infighting in the Congress, the MLA, who was addressing a rally in favour of Ludhiana north constituency in-charge Randhir Singh Sivia on Jassian Road on Sunday, said, “The Congress is split into two factions that are dancing to their own tunes.” Targeting former cabinet minister and Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey, Bains said that the voters had elected Pandey as MLA six times, but the north constituency still has no government college, no government hospital and the matter of Buddha Nullah is still not resolved.“With the elections round the corner, all parties are speaking out against the transport and sand mafia, issues which I have been taking up for years,” he said, adding that Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress leaders should disclose how much money they had made from the transport and sand business over the last 15 years. Bains also took on its former ally, the Aam Aadmi Party, alleging that theirs’ was a politics of contradiction. “The party leaders have come to Punjab ahead of the polls, but not a single penny has been paid for the water the Capital receives from Punjab.” He also said that the party was willing to form an alliance for the assembly elections. Woman alleging rape stopped outside venue The woman, who had lodged an FIR against Bains for raping her, staged a protest against the MLA at Jassian Road. However, cops stopped her from entering the venue. The woman alleged that the police were hand in glove with Bains, which is why she had to move court. “The court has issued non bailable warrants against Bains, and he is attending rallies,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lipmlabains-trains-guns-at-political-rivals-101638143604089.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Have record of ₹37 lakh recovered in I-T raid: Ayali||Ludhiana After income-tax raids on the properties owned by Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali yielded an unaccounted sum of ₹37 lakh, the Dakha legislator said the money was kept for meeting agricultural and familial expenses. The legislator said the income tax (I-T) department had not seized any jewellery, bank accounts or fixed deposits during the raids, which were carried out 15 days ago. “The I-T department had carried out raids on the premises of 40 real-estate, which included me,and nothing illegal has been found from our house or office.” “We have records of the ₹37 lakh recovered by the department and will produce them, when asked to,” said Ayali, holding up the I-T report. He added that as a responsible citizen, he had always paid his income tax. “We were also raided by the I-T department in 1999, and had received a clean chit then too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/have-record-of-37-lakh-recovered-in-i-t-raid-ayali-101638143003618.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: I-T raids on Fastway group continue for the third day||Income-tax sleuths’ raid on the properties owned by Fastway Media Cable Network and Jujhar Bus Service owner Gurdeep Singh Jujhar continued for the third consecutive day on Sunday.The I-T department had raided his properties on November 26, a day after the enforcement directorate had searched his premises under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Jujhar’s properties in Ludhiana, Mohali, and Haryana were also searched. Officials had said that they were probing Jujhar’s links with Surinder Pal Singh, a former chief engineer of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority. Some of the Surinderpal’s properties had also been raided by the I-T department. An official privy to the developments, on condition of anonymity, said, “The I-T department is done searching most of his properties. The raids only continued at the Fastway head office in Grand Walk Mall and a residential unit for the third day.” Meanwhile, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal refused to comment on the raids on the premises of his close aides. “I do not want to comment on the matter, as government agencies are doing their work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-i-t-raids-on-fastway-group-continue-for-the-third-day-101638142703864.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gang robs electronic store staffer of ₹4.7 lakh in Ludhiana||An electronic store employee was allegedly robbed of ₹4.69 lakh on the busy Kali Sadak on Saturday evening. The complainant, Piyush Passi, 47, said his employer had sent him to collect a packet from a medical store in Basti Jodhewal. However, while he was returning, five armed men, who were riding two motorcycles, intercepted him, and threatened him with sharp-edged weapons. They asked him for the key of the scooter he was riding, and took the packet, which he had kept in the scooter. On being informed about the robbery, his employer, Balwinder Singh, alerted the police. Passi, who had been working at the electronic store near Mata Rani Chowk for four months, said she did not know that the packet contained cash. Jodhewal station house officer (SHO) inspector Mohammad Jameel said it was suspicious that nobody had seen the robbery take place on Kali Sadak, one of the busiest roads of the Old City. Police are scanning CCTV cameras in the area and have registered a case under Section 379B (snatching using force) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-robs-electronic-store-staffer-of-4-7-lakh-in-ludhiana-101638142163857.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man wanted for live-in partner’s murder lands in police net||Two days after a woman’s corpse was found by her school-going son, police on Saturday arrested her live-in partner near the Dhandhari bus stop, while he was trying to flee the city. The accused, Raj Nishad, a labourer, had been in a live-in relationship with the victim, Kiran Devi, for three years. Assistant sub-inspector Gagandeep Singh, who is in-charge of the Kanganwal police post, said the couple suspected each other of having an affair, which led to frequent fights between them. On November 25, too, they were accusing each other of infidelity, when in a fit of rage, Nishad strangled Kiran Devi to death and fled. Both the accused and the victim have been married twice, and had two sons each with their former spouses. While Nishad’s sons stayed with his second wife, Kiran Devi’s sons stayed with them. The accused has been remanded to three days in police custody. A case had been lodged against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-wanted-for-live-in-partner-s-murder-lands-in-police-net-101638141683774.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for rape bid on 3-yr-old tenant||A 57-year-old man was arrested for allegedly attempting to rape his tenant’s three-year-old daughter on Sunday. The victim’s parents, who work in a factory said that on Saturday they returned to find their daughter crying and in pain. On being coaxed, she narrated the ordeal, after which the accused fled. The accused, who lives on Tajpur Road, was arrested, while he was trying to leave the city. Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, a case had been lodged under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 511 (attempting to commit offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-rape-bid-on-3-yr-old-tenant-101638140843933.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: Ludhiana saw 58% fatalities on urban roads during lockdown||Reversing the trend, more road mishap victims succumbed in urban areas of the district as compared to rural areas during the lockdown, as per National Crime Records Bureau data. Urban areas reported 58% deaths due to road mishaps in 2020, against 49% deaths in 2019. On the reason for this change in trend, National Road Safety Council member Dr Kamal Soi says, “There was almost no traffic on the roads for at least three months in 2020 due to the Covid-induced lockdown. However, once restrictions were relaxed, more traffic was seen on urban roads, which is one of the primary reasons for the lower death rate in rural areas.” In 2020, the mortality rate increased to 72.42% from 69.39% in 2019. In 2020, as many as 281 people had lost their lives in 388 road mishaps, while the previous year 365 people had succumbed in 526 road mishaps.Joint commissioner of police (city and traffic) J Elanchezhian said 10 accident-prone spots had been identified, and the traffic wing was working on increasing road safety in the areas with the help of the National Highway Authorities of India.Residential areas the deadliest In both rural, and urban areas, residential areas were found to be the deadliest, with rural areas reporting 30 deaths, and urban areas 85. Areas near school, colleges and other educational institutes in rural parts had been absolutely safe in 2019, but , in 2020, five people had lost their lives in road mishaps near schools and colleges. Meanwhile, in urban areas, nine fatalities were reported near educational institutions, which is lower than the 12 accidental deaths reported in 2019.In rural areas, 17 deaths were reported in industrial areas, three near religious places and three near recreational centres and cinema halls. Similarly, in urban areas, 12 people died while crossing roads on pedestrian crossings, three near religious places and eight near recreational places and cinemas and five near industrial areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-data-ludhiana-saw-58-fatalities-on-urban-roads-during-lockdown-101638140303607.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||NDMC nod to extend free water scheme to residential societies||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Sunday approved the extension of the scheme to supply free water up to 20 kilolitres per month to residential societies under the aegis of the council.The Delhi government’s flagship scheme, under which 20,000 litres of water is provided free of cost, was launched in 2013. A consumer is charged the entire amount only if the monthly water consumption crosses the 20KL mark.Besides providing free water connections to residents of BK Dutt Colony, the council also approved layout plans for the redevelopment of Netaji Nagar and Sarojini Nagar on Sunday.As an MLA from New Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, an ex-officio member of the council, was part of the meeting.A government official said that several residential complexes under NDMC, such as East Kidwai Nagar and New Moti Bagh, have been facing problems in availing the benefit of the free water scheme as these societies were provided with a bulk water supply and the residents did not have any end-user water meters.Moreover, residents of BK Dutt Colony were deprived of the scheme because of the complexity of tracing water and sewerage connections under rows of houses, as the locality was originally established as a refugee colony with common toilets and utilities. “New water pipelines were laid out in the area in the last four years but a lot of residents still hadn’t taken connections due to ‘connection charges’. The council decided to waive the one-time charge of ₹7,500,” the official said.Kejriwal said that there was no point in putting together a policy under which connection charges were so high that they could not be borne by citizensIn the case of societies like East Kidwai Nagar, where residents use bulk water meters, water meters will now be installed near the outlets, the official added.The council also approved the proposal for mechanical sweeping around Connaught Place, Hanuman Mandir and Baba Kharak Singh Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-nod-to-extend-free-water-scheme-to-residential-societies-101638136128063.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||City’s demand for alternative cremation methods dwindles||The subsequent waves of Covid-19 pandemic pushed alternative cremation methods into prominence in the city earlier this year but the demand for CNG and electric crematoriums have dwindled drastically in the subsequent months as people have returned to traditional wood-based cremations.Delhi had just two CNG crematoria earlier -- at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhumi -- but the pandemic saw the government doubling the number of furnaces at these facilities, and setting up new units in places like Green Park, Karkardooma, Subhash Nagar and Ghazipur.
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir unveils 13-point programme to boost industry at Ludhiana meet||In a bid to win over industrialists and traders ahead of the assembly elections, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced to take a slew of measures for the welfare of the business community if his party is voted to power in 2022. The announcement was made during an industry-trader meet organised by SAD here on Sunday, during which Sukhbir also released SAD-BSP alliance’s 13-point programme, promising to launch ‘Make your own policy’ scheme and ‘Build Punjab’ agency. Industrialists and traders from different parts of the state participated in the meet that lasted for around three hours. Promising a separate ministry for the development of the MSME sector, Sukhbir said ‘Make your own policy’ scheme will enable the business community to frame policies. “An advisory board comprising industrialists and traders will also be established and the focus will be to revive and encourage the existing industries of Punjabis,” he said. He also promised a 200-acre skill university in Ludhiana which will train professionals for motorcycle, cycle, hosiery and other industries in the region. Sukhbir announced a slew of other incentives, including 50% reduction in external development charges (EDC) and registry charges; ₹10-lakh insurance cover as well as pension scheme for small traders, and interest free loans and interest subsidies. He said the industry will not be shifted from Mixed Land Use areas in 2023 and the deadline in the master plan will be extended. Promising power at ₹5 per unit for the industry and traders, he said big industry as well as focal point associations will be allowed to establish their own solar power plants. “Special incentives will be given to the industrial sector for expansion,” he said. “Our purpose will be to end red-tape and rely on self declaration only. Trade and industry with a turnover of less than ₹25 lakh will not have to maintain books. Only a small lump sum amount will be charged from them,” he said. For the real estate sector, ‘Build Punjab’ agency will be established to regulate the functioning and issue all clearances within 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-unveils-13-point-programme-to-boost-industry-at-ludhiana-meet-101638134424737.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||All government claims to justify abrogation of Article 370 proved wrong: Omar Abdullah||All claims made by the BJP-led Central government to justify the abrogation of Article 370 proved to be wrong as Jammu and Kashmir still faces militancy, separatism, destruction and injustice, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said on Sunday.The former chief minister said militancy spread to even those areas, including summer capital Srinagar, which were declared militancy-free during his government’s tenure from 2009-15, with disillusioned local youths continuing to take up arms.Addressing a public rally at Doda bus stand, Abdullah said the claims of the Central government on ending militancy and separatism proved false as did its remarks that Article 370 created an obstacle for the outside investment and for the overall development of the J&K. Abdullah, who is currently on an eight-day tour of Chenab Valley region comprising Ramban, Doda and Kishtwar districts of Jammu province, said his party would continue its struggle in a peaceful manner to restore the pre-August 2019 status of Jammu and Kashmir. “All the claims of the government with regard to J&K to justify abrogation of Article 370 proved wrong. The reality is that J&K is faced with destruction, helplessness, unemployment, poverty and injustice after the August 2019 development,” he said.He said they are projecting that everyone in Jammu and Kashmir is happy and there is ‘mauja hi mauja’ (all is well) everywhere but “we have not seen this as the hearts of the people are weeping”. “They promised peace in Jammu and Kashmir but it is nowhere to be seen. During our rule (NC-Congress between 2009 and 2015), we removed security pickets from interior parts of Srinagar which were cleared of militancy and were also thinking of revoking the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA).No accountability in J&K administration: Omar
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir continues to reel under cold spell; Srinagar records -0.2°C||The Valley is under the grip of a cold wave as the minimum temperature at most of the places dropped on Sunday, including Srinagar city, that recorded - 0.2°C.The IMD office has predicted snowfall in the first week of the next month owing to the feeble western disturbance.Srinagar recorded - 0.2°C. Qazigund recorded a minimum temperature of - 1.3°C and Pahalgam recorded - 3.0°C.North Kashmir’s Kupwara town registered - 1.4°C. Ladakh’s Leh registered - 7.7°C while Kargil town recorded 3.0°C. Drass in Kargil registered - 10.9°C, the coldest place in the northern region. The IMD has predicted a further drop in the temperature in the coming days across J&K.The Valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past 13 days. Officials say foggy conditions are due to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and the burning of stubble and tree foliage. The wintry conditions in the Valley set in much ahead of the beginning of the extreme harsh weather conditions which usually start around the third week of December. ‘Chillai Kalan’, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year. – With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-continues-to-reel-under-cold-spell-srinagar-records-02c-101638132803011.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Next chai in Sheesh Mahal||The imperial evening in the Palace of Mirrors is already strained to begin with. And then the rebel-courtesan gets more and more mutinous in her dance. She even picks up a knife from the fruit platter. Within moments, the smirking woman multiplies into a multitude of mirrored images. One Anarkali is now a thousand offending Anarkalis, infuriating Emperor Akbar to indescribable rage.This famously thrilling scene in the classic 1960 movie Mughal-e-Azam was filmed in a Mumbai film set in which the makers painstakingly recreated the legendary Sheesh Mahal of Lahore Fort. The wall, as in the original 17th century Sheesh Mahal, was made of thousands of decorative glass tiles, or the sheesh.A similar Sheesh Mahal, as in Lahore, also exists in Agra Fort. One historic Sheesh Mahal is in Delhi, too, in Shalimar Garden, where Aurangzeb was crowned as the sixth Mughal emperor. It is in ruins, with no trace of its original splendour. Then there is one more Sheesh Mahal in the capital, with a wall panelled with hundreds of small glass tiles. This so-named Sheesh Mahal is a little-known chaikhana, or teahouse, in Farash Khana. The atmospheric locality in Old Delhi is a labyrinth of congested by-lanes, each of which is a universe so self-contained with its many landmarks that one can perhaps spend a lifetime within its limits without yearning for the world outside.This afternoon only three customers are in the dimly lit teahouse. They all are backbenchers, withdrawn towards the wall embossed with multi-coloured glasses. Two of these men are sitting by a panel whose central motif appears to be the likeness of a flower. The glass petals in the middle are in deep pink, surrounded with glass leaves of silver, yellow and green. An artistically minded person might recall Vincent Van Gogh’s sunflowers. Indeed, if the penniless Dutch painter were to live in contemporary Old Delhi, he might have liked the ambience of this tea house and lingered here everyday (much like that barefoot painter MF Husain who favoured a tea house in Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti during the 1960s).Sheesh Mahal is managed by young Sajid whose grandfather, Mange Mian, had founded it 30 years ago. It is no accident that the sheeshas occupy a prominence in the tea house, he explains. “My family deals with sheeshe ka kaam (mirror work).” Minutes later, the friendly man gets busy making a cup of customised chai for a fussy customer who demands his tea to have “less sugar, less milk and no malai”, which is basically the antithesis of the chai idealised in Sheesh Mahal.The place serves daily from 4 am to 1 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-next-chai-in-sheesh-mahal-101638132203642.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Cops stage protest outside Jai Ram Thakur’s residence to press for their demands||Annoyed with the state government for not heeding to their demands, policemen in large numbers turned up at the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence “Oak Over” taking up the higher-ups by surprise. They were angry over the government’s decision to increase the salaries of employees, while their demands had not been met.They were demanding a reduction in the contractual period from eight years to two years, better housing facilities and ration allowance. They also demanded one-month extra salary since they remained on duty 24X7. A large number of the policemen who arrived at the CM’s residence were in uniforms. The CM summoned additional chief secretary, finance, Prabodh Saxena and NGO president Ashwani Thakur to discuss the issue of policemen. After the meeting, the CM briefly addressed the policemen and assured them that their demands would be met.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had on Saturday announced an increase in pension salaries of employees at the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of the non-gazetted officers held on Saturday after a gap of six years. The CM while addressing the JCC of the Himachal Pradesh Non-Gazetted Employees Federation announced new pay scales for the employees of the Himachal state government with effect from January 1, 2016. The Himachal government has also reduced the period of contractual employees for their regularisation from three years to two years.The CM was away on a day-long tour to the Chopal assembly segment’s interior region Kupvi. The cops, who were upset over their demands being ignored in the JCC meeting, had turned out in large numbers outside the chief minister’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-cops-stage-protest-outside-jai-ram-thakur-s-residence-to-press-for-their-demands-101638132683469.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt taking steps to attract film industry to Himachal, says chief minister Jai Ram Thakur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said the state government was constantly emphasising the protection of language, art and culture and films were one of the best methods to do so. He was speaking at the concluding ceremony of the International Film Festival of Shimla. He said the state government has also framed its own film policy to promote the shooting of films in the state.He said the state government had signed an Rs100 crore MoU for setting up a film city in the state so that filmmakers could get a conducive environment for shooting their films. He said with the setting up of a Film City, filmmakers of the country and the world would be able to shoot and produce the entire film in the state. He said several filmmakers from India and abroad visit Himachal to shoot their films due to its beautiful locations but unfortunately, Himachal could not develop its film industry. The CM said events like the Shimla Film Festival were playing an important role in creating a positive atmosphere in the state regarding film production and the state government was also giving full cooperation to organise such events. Jai Ram Thakur congratulated all participants of the film festival, its organiser Himalayan Velocity and the department of language, art and culture, directors, producers and artists for making the seventh edition of International Film Festival Shimla a success.He also gave away awards for the best films, short films and documentaries on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-taking-steps-to-attract-film-industry-to-himachal-says-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-101638132622643.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: 64 Covid cases surface, 2 dead; Shimla reports maximum cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 62 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,003 while the death toll reached 3,830 after two more patients died of the infection. The highest of 35 cases were reported from Shimla, 11 from Kangra, seven from Solan, four from Hamirpur, two from Una and one each from Bilaspur, Kullu and Mandi. The active cases came down to 795 while the recoveries have reached 2,22,361 after 74 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,854 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,863 cases and Shimla with 27,869 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-64-covid-cases-surface-2-dead-shimla-reports-maximum-cases-101638132563227.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Palampur: Fire breaks out at laboratory in Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology laboratory||Laboratory equipment and other property were gutted after a massive fire broke out in the chemistry lab of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, in the wee hours of Sunday. However, no loss of life has been reported in the incident.The fire department rushed two fire engines from Palampur to the IBHT campus. However, given the severity of the situation, a third fire engine was summoned from Baijanth.It took firefighters 3-4 hours to douse the flames. Palampur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurbachan Singh said the police was informed about the fire incident after midnight.He said a watchman noticed the fire and informed the IHBT authorities who then called the fire department and the police.A police team and firefighters rushed to the spot immediately, said Singh. He said prima facie short-circuit was said to be the reason behind the fire.However, the exact reason will be known after a thorough investigation, said the DSP. He said the loss is being estimated and it may run into crores. Meanwhile, it is learnt that the IHBT authorities are likely to constitute a committee for an internal investigation into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/palampur-fire-breaks-out-at-laboratory-in-institute-of-himalayan-bioresource-technology-laboratory-101638132382778.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal governor inaugurates state conclave of Arogya Bharti Sanstha in Una||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar on Sunday said lifestyle changes were necessary to live a healthy life and prevent serious diseases.He was speaking after inaugurating the state convention of Arogya Bharti Sanstha in Una.The governor stressed on documentation of medicinal plants found in Himachal Pradesh so that people could get information about the use of these plants.He said herbal gardens should be developed on school premises for enriching children’s knowledge. He said there could be a change in the attitude of society towards ayurveda and medicinal plants with all these progressive steps. Appreciating the endeavours of the Arogya Bharti, the governor expressed hope that there would be deliberations on healthy lifestyle and mental health during the convention.He said more attention should be paid to prevention than treatment of the diseases. He said one can avoid diseases by adopting ayurvedic remedies. National president of the Arogya Bharti Sanstha Rakesh Pandit detailed the activities of the Arogya Bharti Sanstha and said the purpose of the organisation was to improve the health and lifestyle of human beings. He said there was a need to start a new system of medicine by bringing together all medical systems like ayurveda, allopathy and homoeopathy so that people could get better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-governor-inaugurates-state-conclave-of-arogya-bharti-sanstha-in-una-101638132142818.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Kisan Sangharsh Samiti seeks payment for apple bought under market intervention scheme||The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) has demanded the state government to release the payments of ‘C’ grade apple purchased through the Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) and the Himachal Pradesh State Co-operative Marketing & Consumers Federation (HIMFED) from farmers under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS).In a press statement issued here, former Shimla mayor and KSS convener Sanjay Chauhan alleged that during the byelections, the state government had announced that it would pay for the apple procured under the MIS immediately and the provision for the same has been made.However, the state government has failed to release the payments to the farmers and has failed to implement its own decision, he said.Chauhan said this year the government had procured a record 74,000 metric tonnes of ‘C’ grade apples worth ₹72 crores through the HPMC and HIMFED.He said this year the apple crop was hit by hailstorms and unseasonal rains. “About 50% of the crop was affected and the farmers suffered losses up to ₹1,500 crore,” he added.Due to the damage, the farmers were forced to sell apples under the MIS as the market crashed, he said, adding that many farmers sold their entire crop under the MIS.“The government has neither provided any relief to the orchardists to compensate for their losses nor it is releasing the payments due to which they were finding it hard to meet day-to-day expenses,” said Chauhan.“Marginal and small farmers are the worst hit and if the government failed to pay their dues, there will be a livelihood crisis for them,” he added. Chauhan said the farmers also have to pay bank loans and for the input items for the next crop.So, it has become necessary that the government pays the pending dues at the earliest. “The anti-farmer policies of the Centre and state governments have adversely hit the agriculture sector in the country. On the one hand, the input cost has been rising, while on the other hand farmers are not even getting a reasonable price for their produce,” he said.He alleged that the APMC Act was openly violated in markets and commission agents and buyers were not paying farmers the actual price for their produce.He said instead of paying the farmers in cash, the HPMC also forces them to get unnecessary items for pending dues.If the government does not immediately clear the arrears of the apple growers, the KSS will mobilise the farmers and launch a stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-kisan-sangharsh-samiti-seeks-payment-for-apple-bought-under-market-intervention-scheme-101638132082802.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||National Family Health Survey: 83% women in Jammu and Kashmir never spoke about violence experienced by them||Over 70% women in 11 states and one Union territory never sought help or told anyone about the violence experienced by them, the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS) found. According to NFHS-5, the proportion of such women was over 80% in four states and one Union territory -- Assam (81.2%), Bihar (81.8%), Manipur (83.9%), Sikkim (80%), and Jammu and Kashmir (83.9%). Tripura (76%), Telangana (71%), West Bengal (76.3%), Maharashtra (76.4%), Goa (75.7%), Gujarat (70.6%) and Andhra Pradesh (79.7%) are the other states where more than 70% women never sought help or told anyone about the violence experienced by them. Less than 10% women sought help to escape from physical violence in eight states -- Assam (6.6%), Andhra Pradesh (7.7%), Bihar (8.9%), Goa (9.6%), Himachal Pradesh (9.6%t), Jammu and Kashmir (7.1%), Manipur (1.2%t), and Nagaland (4.8%). The sources of help for those who sought it included their own family, husband’s family, neighbour, police, lawyer and religious leader. The types of spousal violence experienced by the women were cuts, bruises, aches, eye injuries, broken bones, severe burns, broken teeth, sprains and dislocations among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-family-health-survey-83-women-in-jammu-and-kashmir-never-spoke-about-violence-experienced-by-them-101638131963873.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Parks turned into dump sites in ward 22 of Chandigarh||Like most urban areas, residents living in ward 22 of Chandigarh municipal corporation also have a plethora of complaints, including lack of cleanliness, choked sewers and inadequate parking space, but their pet peeve is parks being turned into dumping grounds. The ward, comprising Sectors 31, 32 and 33, has enough public parks but most of these are not well-maintained. Sector 31 was earlier part of ward 22 while Sector 32 was in ward 21 and Sector 33 was in ward 16. Sector 31 is largely maintained by the Indian Air Force. Though the sector has approximately 2,000 voters, MC has very little role in its maintenance. Residents of the other two sectors say councillors of their wards are mostly inaccessible and least concerned about the problems of the area.Jagdish Singh Sarpal, president, residents’ welfare association (RWA), Sector 33, says, “Our sector has at least four dirty spots. These areas were earmarked as parks or were vacant plots, but have turned into dumping grounds over the years. Sweepers too dump the garbage picked from roadside here. Residents add to the mounting garbage pile by discarding construction waste even even as the municipal corporation officials turn a blind eye to it.” He added that some people have even illegally encroached upon some areas in public parks, leading to inconvenience for residents.Paras Kumar Goyal, vice-president, RWA, Sector 32, says, “Though Sector 32 has enough facilities, it needs better maintenance. Door-to-door garbage collection in the area is irregular and garbage collectors sometimes skip going up to the first and second floors, due to which elderly residents face inconvenience. We want the next councillor to look into all these issues and also bring development projects.”Residents add that sewer lines also need cleaning, as most of these are choked. Green belts are in need of immediate pruning, and facilities such as public toilets and drinking water facilities also need upgrade.Ashwani Kumar Khanna, president, market welfare association, Sector 32, said, “The biggest issue being faced by people of ward number 22 is that of inadequate parking space. The markets have haphazard parking facilities due to which these remain jam-packed with vehicles. MC must bring multi-level parking so that the issue can be resolved. The new councillor must interact with the public so as to get an idea about what residents actually want.” Know your wardLocalities: Sector 31, 32 and 33 Reserved for womenVoters: 20,000Key Issues:• Choked sewers, poor sanitation and garbage dumped on roads• No parking space in markets• Public facilities like parks, toilets need regular maintenanceLocal voices:The ward has inadequate parking spaces, especially in markets. The MC must construct multi-level parking on vacant plots to ease the problem. Ashwani Kumar Khanna, president, market welfare association, Sector 32.Sector 33 has at least four ‘dirty spots’. These areas are parks and vacant plots, which are now being used as dumping grounds. Even MC sweepers dump garbage here. Jagdish Singh Sarpal, president, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 33. Roads plunge into darkness in the evening hours as streetlights are out of order. Also, the market lacks parking space. Rajdev Gupta, resident, Sector 32Door-to-door garbage collection in the area is not up-to-the mark. Also, sweepers don’t clean the roads and inside lanes properly, resulting in heaps of garbage on roadsides.Narinder Sharma, resident, Sector 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parks-turned-into-dump-sites-in-ward-22-of-chandigarh-101638131962829.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Lack of parking, encroachments in markets leave residents a harried lot||Unavailability of parking facilities, congested alleys and encroachments in markets of the Ambala twin-towns have become a major problem for residents.The markets remain packed through the day with customers and tourists from across the region and scores of sellers in small markets around the city’s old cloth market and Cantonment’s Sadar Bazar have put their products on display at least six to seven feet outside their shops, leaving no space for pedestrian and vehicular movement. Vendors dealing in clothing and fashion accessories have even blocked a lane outside the bus stand in the city, due to which four-wheelers have to drive on the wrong side towards the railway station. Shopkeepers here want authorities to ban the entry of four-wheelers and take action against illegal encroachments that usually hamper the passage of emergency vehicles.Mithun Verma, Congress councillor, under whose jurisdiction some parts of the old cloth market fall, is working with MC employees to cover the drains in the market, also termed as Asia’s largest in terms of sellers dealing in clothing and related products. “We found it difficult to even measure open drains, due to encroachments. The commissioner has been apprised of the fact and we will explore other options,” he said.In Cantt, construction activities particularly on Nicholson and 12 Cross Roads have become a headache for pedestrians as well as merchants, in recent months. Ayushi Chaudhary, a resident of Defence Colony, said that it becomes almost impossible to walk down the crowded lanes and find a parking space for two-wheelers during evening hours. A multi-level parking facility worth ₹19 crore with a capacity of 300 four-wheelers on Cantt station road is underway, but has been delayed and the contractor has been served notice by the authorities. Sachin Gupta, additional deputy commissioner-cum-administrator, Sadar municipal council, said that the civic body has removed temporary encroachments outside shops in gud mandi, sabzi mandi, Gandhi market, motor market, Nicholson road etc and warned the shopkeepers in this regard two weeks back. “Due to these structures, pedestrians have to face a lot of inconvenience in all the markets. This time, the traders have been warned. Next time, their goods will be seized and appropriate action will be taken,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-lack-of-parking-encroachments-in-markets-leave-residents-a-harried-lot-101638131602719.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Passersby foil carjacking bid on Landran-Kharar road||Passersby caught an armed carjacker, who was trying to flee with a car snatched on gunpoint on late Saturday evening on Kharar-Landran road. Two of his accomplices, however, managed to flee. The accused has been identified as Satvir Singh, a resident of Chandran village in Ludhiana, while his aides are Gurpreet Singh and Gurwinder Singh, also residents of Ludhiana. As per the information, the victim Ashish Kumar, in his complaint to the police, alleged that he works as a cab driver. He had picked up the trio on his way back from Mandi Gobindgarh. They asked him to drop them to Chandigarh. They initially made him take rounds on the Kharar-Landran road on the pretext of finding an address. When they reached a housing society on Kharar-Landran, one of the three mean pulled out a pistol and asked Ashish to hand over the keys and possession of the vehicle. A scuffle ensued between the carjackers and Ashish, following which, passersby started gathering there. On seeing this, two out of the three carjackers fled but the third one was nabbed by passersby and handed over to the police. Police have also recovered a pistol and four live cartridges from his possession. Sohana station house officer, inspector Bhagwant Singh said all three have been under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code. Satvir was produced in a local court, from where he was sent to three-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-passersby-foil-carjacking-bid-on-landran-kharar-road-101638131482647.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman loses purse to snatcher near DPS-40||A motorcycle-borne man snatched a Sector-40 resident’s phone when she was taking a walk around Delhi Public School with her mother on Saturday.Complainant Ankita Sharma said the purse contained ₹600 cash and her mobile phone. A case under Section 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector-39 police station against an unidentified person. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-loses-purse-to-snatcher-near-dps40-101638131242566.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh government hospitals gear up to tackle Covid spike||With the daily Covid-19 cases beginning to show an upward trend in the tricity, government hospitals in Chandigarh are gearing up to tackle the situation. Besides reserving isolation wards and intensive care units for Covid-19 patients, hospitals have decided to scale up testing by screening all people visiting the out-patient departments (OPDs) of the hospitals.Looking at the Covid-19 surge, the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) Sector 16, has already converted a 40-bed ward into an isolation centre for Covid patients. “At present, we have only reserved one ward for Covid-19 patients as the patient load has not yet increased. Besides, we have already reserved a few ventilator beds and oxygenated beds for the severe patients,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services (DHS), Chandigarh.The DHS has also ordered all heads of departments of GMSH-16 and allied dispensaries to ensure that all OPD patients are screened for Covid-19 even if they are asymptomatic and fully vaccinated. “Residents of Chandigarh should be screened through RT-PCR while those from other states should undergo rapid antigen tests. Also, asymptomatic patients from other states should be tested for both RT-PCR and rapid tests,” the order read.Meanwhile, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has also ramped up facilities for Covid-19 patients. “Though the hospital admissions have not yet increased, we have already started reserving beds for patients after studying the figures. At present, we have reserved 51 beds, including ICU beds with ventilators, for Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Also, 121 beds are available at GMCH’s South Campus at Sector 48,” said Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent of the hospital.He further added that a 14-bed paediatric ICU has already been established at GMCH-32, keeping in view of the possibility of an increase in pediatric cases.‘Patients with lung infection getting +ve, situation worrisome’Meanwhile, Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the Covid management panel, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “Over the last few weeks, the number of daily Covid cases have been fluctuating but in the last few days, an upward trend in cases has been seen. Earlier, patients with kidney, liver or heart problems were getting infected with Covid-19 but this time, patients with primary lung symptoms are getting admitted in the hospital. This is a worrisome situation.”“Also, the numbers of people, who are vaccinated against the disease and are getting infected, are increasing too. We are hoping that the severity of infection remains low in those people but for the last few days, severe patients are coming to PGIMER. At present, 22 out of 23 beds are occupied but we can accommodate 35-to 40 patients. Many more mild patients can also be accommodated. We have enough standby beds and ventilators and facilities will be scaled up as per the situation as more Covid reserved beds mean cutting on non-Covid facilities,” Dr Puri added.10 new infections in tricity, active cases rise to 133On Sunday, 10 more people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the daily tally in double digits again. Five cases each were reported from Chandigarh and Mohali while no new infection surfaced in Panchkula.Last Friday, the daily infection tally had risen to 26 in the tricity and on Saturday, only eight cases were reported.Meanwhile, no Covid-related fatality was reported in the tricity on Sunday. So far in November, Mohali has reported three fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula. Tricity’s active cases tally rose to 133 on Sunday, with 54 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 49 in Mohali, and 30 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-government-hospitals-gear-up-to-tackle-covid-spike-101638130942641.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC annual polls today, members authorise Sukhbir Badal to pick new team||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general house will assemble on Monday for the annual election of Sikh shrine management body president, other office-bearers and the executive committee in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar. Like previous years, the gurdwara body members, who are in majority, owing allegiance to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday unanimously authorised party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to choose the entire team. This time too, Sukhbir held a closed-door meeting with SGPC members. Former SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar proposed to give Sukhbir all rights to choose the new team with all members present giving their nod. Incumbent president Jagir Kaur listed the “accomplishments” during her one-year tenure.An SGPC member said Sukhbir hailed Jagir Kaur’s tenure and expressed his desire to avail her services for the party in the upcoming assembly elections and rope her in the cabinet if the party forms government. Contenders for the top postApart from incumbent president Jagir Kaur, who has a long experience of managing the gurdwara body affairs, some other names are also doing rounds for the top post. Balbir Singh Ghunas, a scheduled caste (SC), is also being considered a frontrunner as the SC factor has become dominant in the poll-bound state with the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister after SAD announced to make deputy cm from the community if it forms the government in Punjab. A four-time MLA, Ghunas is head of Gurdwara Tap Asthan Baba Attar Singh at Ghunas village in Barnala district and this is not for the first time that his name is doing rounds for the top post. Besides, incumbent SGPC chief secretary (honorary) Harjinder Singh Dhami and former chief Kirpal Singh Badungar are also contenders. The general house of 191 members comprising 170 elected by Sikh voters, 15 co-opted and six sitting heads of Sikh temporal seats and Golden Temple head granthi assembles to elect the president and other office-bearers (general secretary, senior vice-president and junior vice-president) besides 11-member executive committee. Of these, nearly 15 members have died, while some resigned from the membership.The members either elect the office-bearers or executive unanimously or by voting through secret ballot papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-annual-polls-today-members-authorise-sukhbir-badal-to-pick-new-team-101638130884128.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bridge courses needed to fill learning gaps amid pandemic: NISA research report||National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) on Sunday released a research report, “National Level survey on Learning Loss in School Education during the Pandemic”, aimed at understanding the learning gaps suffered during the pandemic and finding ways to bridge them.The survey involved 1,502 students from urban, semi-urban and rural private schools across 17 states, being assessed for their foundational abilities. The major aspects being analysed in the survey, which also included a common web questionnaire, were students’ understanding abilities, reading and written skills of mother tongue and their grasp over English and mathematics Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the NISA, said, “We have been working for the accessibility and advocacy of quality education since 2010. To take it further, we assessed the learning loss among school students of Classes 3, 5 and 8 during the pandemic at a national level.”The final report, which was released in Chandigarh, arrived at a few significant findings on students’ abilities to overcome academic lapses. The report showed an overwhelming 85% of students exhibited good awareness of their present skill levels in languages and mathematics. In another major finding, almost half, 42.3%, of the total respondents reported undergoing stress, tension and anxiety.The survey also addressed the digital divide in schools in urban and rural parts of the country, finding that students from the latter category were unable to join online classes due to lack of internet access. Notably, almost all respondents, 98.6%, preferred offline classes. The final report pressed for a few teaching reforms, with special focus on remedial classes and innovative curriculum. “The gap needs to be filled. Government should consider if bridge courses can be a part of the curriculum, and other schools will follow. There has been a huge loss, which might not be visible now but will reflect when the students are in secondary or senior secondary,” the group’s national coordinator and one of the researchers, Thomas Antony said.“The survey’s findings would be of great assistance to the pedagogy of a classroom in suggesting measures to bridge learning gaps,” an official NISA statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bridge-courses-needed-to-fill-learning-gaps-amid-pandemic-nisa-research-report-101638130883078.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||CAT: 7,000 students appear for exam in Chandigarh tricity||Around 7,000 students appeared for Common Admission Test (CAT) 2021 from Chandigarh tricity region on Sunday which was held in three sessions.The exam was conducted by IIM Ahmedabad and more than 2 lakh students across the country appeared. There was one test centre in Chandigarh, four in Mohali and seven more within a 60-km radius.CAT is used for admissions into India’s top management institutes like IIMs and other MBA colleges. It tests students on mathematics, English and reasoning ability. The level of difficulty of sections and overall exam this year was on similar lines in the past with verbal being easy to moderate, DILR being the most difficult and quant was moderately difficult.Hirdesh Madan, co-founder of Hitbullseye, said, “The exam was smartly conducted in three slots with uniformity in style, subject areas and level of difficulty. This will reduce the pain of disparity in result declaration.”In the region, IIM Sirmaur and IIM Amritsar top the charts of most coveted colleges accepting CAT scores. The University Business School (UBS) of Panjab University is also one of the sought after colleges and its CAT cut-off is expected to be around 90 percentile.Diksim Gulati of Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, said “The paper was on expected lines in terms of difficulty. My habit of taking mocks regularly and assuming different scenarios helped me cope with the changes and varied difficulty level”. Another student, Nikhil Gupta of DAV college, said, “I felt the overall exam was a bit lengthy even with less number of questions. I did well in the verbal section and I am hoping for higher accuracy in the other two to secure a good score”. The result for the test is expected to be declared in the second week of January. In the second phase, after the written test results are declared, students go through an essay and interview stage for final selection. Each IIM has its own criteria, but over the years, past academic record, work experience and graduation stream is gaining significance in the overall process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cat-7-000-students-appear-for-exam-in-chandigarh-tricity-101638130706693.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two men arrested for civil engineer’s Nov 20 murder at Ibban village in Kapurthala||Police claimed to have solved the November 20 murder of a 30-year-old civil engineer of Tarn Taran district, who was shot dead at Ibban village in Kapurthala district, with the arrest of two members of a gang on Sunday. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh Sukha (25) and Lovepreet Singh of Ibban village, while their associate Harkrishan Singh alias Monu of Dhapai village is still at large. Khakh said civil engineer Balwinder Singh, a surveyor with a private firm, was shot dead allegedly by the accused after he refused to hand over the keys of his vehicle to them. The victim was shot thrice and the accused fled in his white Mahindra Bolero vehicle. The SSP said police arrested Sukhwinder from Raajapur bus stand and Lovepreet from Gurdaspur. A murder case was registered at Kapurthala Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-men-arrested-for-civil-engineer-s-nov-20-murder-at-ibban-village-in-kapurthala-101638130642528.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Protesting teacher stays atop mobile tower for second day in a row||A day after climbing on a mobile phone tower at the Punjab MLA hostel in Sector 4, Swarn Singh, an ETT qualified teacher from Barnala, remained there on Sunday. Police personnel have been deployed at the spot to monitor the situation and said that Singh has taken a few days of food with him.The protester said that he was recruited as a teacher along with around 6,700 ETT-qualified people during the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) regime in 2016. However, when the Congress came to power, he was put on probation in 2018 and his salary was reduced from ₹65,000 to ₹25,000.He is demanding that his file seeking regularisation and restoration of old salary, which is pending with the education department, be cleared immediately. Various officials from the Punjab education department as well as Shiromani Akali Dal leaders have reached out to him, asking him to come down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-protesting-teacher-stays-atop-mobile-tower-for-second-day-in-a-row-101638130587090.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Masked men fire gunshots at Ambala advocate’s residence, wife hurt||An Ambala-based advocate’s wife was injured after two masked men fired gunshots at their residence in Sector-4 of Naraingarh on Saturday evening. The victim, identified as Rubi, wife of advocate Gaurav Goyal, was about to open the gates after hearing the doorbell when the men opened indiscriminate fire. She suffered gunshot injuries on her leg and was discharged from the hospital after first-aid.A property dispute is suspected to be the reason behind the attack.Closed-circuit television camera footage, provided by family, shows two men waiting outside the gates. As soon as the woman proceeded towards the gate to open it, one of them opened fire while the other waited. Later, both fled on a two-wheeler.In his statement, advocate Goyal named five suspects: Baldev, Ajeet, Shiv Kumar, Captain Jarnail Singh and Rajesh Kumar. He said the family has an old enmity with them over a property issue. He added, “I have been receiving threat calls from international numbers, for which an FIR was lodged at Shahazadpur police station in March but no action was taken. Police had filed a disclosure report as the numbers remained untraceable. Later in April, my brother was brutally beaten up on his way back home. I’m afraid my family will be attacked again.” He also added he has received extortion calls from international numbers claiming to be from “SR group” (Sahil Rana) from Shahazadpur, an assailant of the dreaded gangster Bhuppi Rana. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered. CIA Naraingarh is also probing the case. Naraingarh police station in-charge, inspector Vijay Kumar said, “There were two shooters, as seen in the footage. The complainant is also a financer and deals in properties too. We are investigating the case and expect a breakthrough soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/masked-men-fire-gunshots-at-ambala-advocate-s-residence-wife-hurt-101638130463683.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest man with 11gm cocaine||A 32-year-old Karnal resident was arrested with 11gm cocaine at a naka in Sector 23, Chandigarh, on Sunday afternoon following a tip-off. Identified as Badal, he was heading towards Sector 26 when he was caught. As per officials, he used to get the cocaine from Delhi and supply it in the city. Police said the accused is unemployed and had previously been booked in two attempt-to-murder cases in Haryana in 2009 and 2019. “He is not a drug addict. He had come to the city in 2019 and started driving taxi and made some contacts along the way,” an official privy to the investigation said. “He has contacts in some of the famous hotels in the city and discos in Sector 26 where he would supply cocaine for ₹8,000 per gram,” the official said. A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Sector 17 police station and the accused was sent to three-day police remand after being produced in the court on Sunday. More arrests are likely in the case, cops said.Woman nabbed with 2-kg marijuanaMohali police on Sunday arrested a woman with 2-kg marijuana near Dhappar toll plaza. She has been identified as Rajrani, a resident of Barmajra in Lalru. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, said that the woman was stopped on the basis of suspicion while she was travelling on her scooter and on checking, the contraband was recovered. A case under NDPS Act has been registered against her at Lalru police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-man-with-11gm-cocaine-101638130342545.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Woman kidnaps, buries neighbour’s infant daughter alive in Ludhiana||A woman allegedly kidnapped the two-and-a-half-years old daughter of her neighbour in Shimlapuri locality of Ludhiana on Sunday and buried her alive in a field in the Salem Tabri area of the city, police said. The accused, Neelam, 35, of Shimlapuri, who was arrested, had an old enmity with the child’s father Harpreet Singh, a constable in the 3rd Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), officials said. The police recovered the toddler on the information given by the accused but she died before she could be taken to hospital. The police are also investigating the role of family members of the accused in the crime as it was difficult for her to bury the child in the pit on her own, officials said.Joint commissioner of police (city) J Elanchezhian said that they received a call from Harpreet around 3.15pm that his daughter Dilroz Kaur was missing. “The police immediately started an investigation in the matter. After executing the crime, the woman returned home and started behaving normally,” he said. The police checked the houses of the victim’s neighbours, including that of Neelam. When they scanned CCTV cameras installed in the area they spotted Neelam taking away the toddler on her scooter, the JCP said.“The police rounded up the woman and questioned her. She confessed to the crime. We rescued the toddler and rushed her to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) where doctors declared her brought dead,” he added.“Neelam is divorced and has been living at her maternal house with her two sons since 2015. Her sons had scuffled with other children in the street following which some residents had complained to her. Since then, she started believing that everyone was against her and her children. A few days ago Neelam had a spat with Harpreet and his wife over some petty issue,” he added.A case of kidnapping and murder was registered against Neelam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-kidnaps-buries-neighbour-s-infant-daughter-alive-in-ludhiana-101638130222382.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Unable to run units to capacity for want of enough raw cotton, ginners face losses in Punjab||All 82 cotton ginning units of Punjab are unable to keep their operations running to capacity due to a shortage of nearly one-fourth of the required natural fibre in the market.Industry sources say the shortage of raw cotton is due to pink bollworm attack in the major cotton-growing districts of Bathinda and Mansa and pockets of Barnala, Sangrur and Muktsar. State government’s projection says a drastic drop in cotton production due to the pest attack. Factory owners say they are facing financial losses as the units are working between 25-50% of the capacity while nearly 10 units are lying shut in Bathinda and Mansa.A leading cotton ginner from Malout in Muktsar Bhagwan Bansal said against the average minimum requirement of 150 bales or 750 quintals per day, meagre 200 quintal cotton is available for processing. “A cotton ginning unit operator has to pay about ₹10 lakh fixed electricity charges for the nine-month season from September 1 onwards. As the pest attack has severely hit crop production, we are unable to run factories. We have to pay fixed charges even when electricity is not used,” he said.“Punjab government was quick to grant compensation to affected cotton growers, the interest of ginners has been overlooked. The government is biased towards investors,” said Bansal, who led a delegation of ginners for a meeting with state agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha on Friday, demanding a relief package for the sector.Ashwani Kumar, who strengthened his cotton factory after shifting it from Bathinda city limits to Sangat town this year, said the sector is struggling for survival. “A factory employs about 125 workers with an estimated annual salary commitment of ₹25 lakh. A planned policy in the adjoining Rajasthan made it a major cotton-growing state in a decade producing over one crore quintals. It has incentivised entrepreneurs with zero market committee fees for cotton. Punjab still charges 1% fees with no incentive for ginners,” he said.For the current season, ginners were expecting 60 lakh quintal raw cotton after Punjab saw an increase of 25% area under cotton. As per Punjab Mandi Board data, different districts of south Malwa had recorded sales of 8.60 lakh quintals till November 27.Board authorities opine the production this year may be around 25 lakh quintals while the industry say cotton arrival may touch the 30-35 lakh quintal mark.Punjab Cotton Mills and Ginning Association president Suresh Bansal said owing to the negligent attitude of the state government, 76% of factories closed down since 2005. He blames the absence of a dedicated policy for agriculture and the industrial sector in Punjab.“Punjab had 335 ginning factories 16 years ago that came down to 82 in 2021. In 2005, factories were ginning 18 lakh bales or 90 lakh quintals in a season and in 2020-21 kharif season, Punjab produced 49 lakh quintals,” he said.“After irrigation system strengthened in over last decade, farmers of the semi-arid region of Malwa switched from the traditional cotton to less labour-intensive crop of non-basmati rice. Kotkapura town used to be a major purchase centre where 20-lakh quintal cotton was a regular feature 10-12 years ago. In 2020-21, the entire Faridkot district registered the arrival of mere 50,000 quintals. It shows the government has failed to set its priorities right,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unable-to-run-units-to-capacity-for-want-of-enough-raw-cotton-ginners-face-losses-in-punjab-101638130165815.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to get 20 MGD additional water supply from December 1||After a decade-long wait, Mohali is finally set to get an additional water supply of 20 MGD (million gallons a day) from Phase 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks, starting December 1. This will help the district bridge its demand-supply gap, which goes up to 12 MGD during peak summer months. Currently, against a demand of 32 MGD, Mohali gets 10 MGD from the older phases of Kajauli waterworks and 10 MGD from 75 tubewells, leaving a shortfall of 12 MGD. Mohali will be sharing around 5 MGD of the additional supply with Kharar and 1 MGD with Morinda. Chandigarh has already started getting its shareKajauli waterworks is located on the Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Rupnagar district, from where the water requirements of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir are met. Chandigarh has already started receiving an additional supply of 35 MGD from Phase 5 and 6. The additional supply for Mohali got delayed due to pending work at the water treatment plant coming up at Singhpura. The project has missed two deadlines: December 2020 and July 2021. Now, 400 workers are on job to meet the new deadline. What led to the delay for MohaliIn May 2012, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had started laying pipelines to supply additional water from Kajauli waterworks to Mohali and Chandigarh at a cost of ₹200 crore, half of which was borne by Chandigarh. However, the delay in Singhpura plant, being built by a Gujarat-based company for ₹100 crore, put a spanner in the project. One of the reasons was indecision: whether to go for 5 MGD capacity or 20 MGD. GMADA finally went with the second option. The pandemic, too, played a part by creating labour shortage. GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “We will begin the trial on November 30 and start supplying additional water in the next two or three days. The construction work of the water treatment plant is in its final stages.” Mohali deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had moved the high court over water shortage in Mohali, said, “We are finally getting additional water supply, but the previous dispensation, led by Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party, did not take any initiative to expedite the work. It was the Congress government, which made efforts on this front.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-to-get-20-mgd-additional-water-supply-from-december-1-101638130162425.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: College teacher writes to chancellor over cancellation of election, seeks probe||Tarun Ghai, whose election to Panjab University (PU) senate was declared ineligible by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Friday, has now written to Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, seeking an independent probe into the matter.The varsity’s order stated that Ghai, whose services were terminated in June by SPN College, Mukerian, where he was an assistant professor, is not a teacher in any college, but was elected from the constituency of teachers of affiliated colleges in August, although he was not reinstated by the college management even after PU’s directions to revoke his termination.Ghai in his letter stated, “After the college management went to court, challenging the varsity’s order to reinstate me, the varsity gave the affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court in support of my case, thus again declaring my termination illegal. After this I contested the senate election and was declared elected.” Manoj Kumar, who was also a candidate from the same constituency, had written to the chancellor questioning Ghai’s eligibility after he was declared elected to the senate. He later also approached the HC as well. “But now, contradicting its own previous orders, vice-chancellor of PU has declared my election to senate null and void,” reads the letter written to PU chancellor.The letter also states, “Such a self-contradiction in a serious matter needs to be thoroughly probed by an independent and competent authority after placing vice chancellor of PU under suspension to ensure an independent inquiry.” He has also decided to hold a protest outside the V-C’s office for 24 hours on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-college-teacher-writes-to-chancellor-over-cancellation-of-election-seeks-probe-101638130112538.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Over 6 years, 40 lakh litres of water went into dousing flames at Dadumajra dump site||The cleaning of the Dadumajra dumping ground is not only costing the city more than ₹33 crore, but in the last six years, approximately 40 lakh litres of water has been used to douse multiple fires at the site. As per a rough estimate, this quantity is enough to meet the daily water needs of approximately 16,000 persons. With the number and extent of fire increasing over the past three years, particularly after 2019, the usage of water for fire control has also increased. In 2019, 1.25 lakh litres was consumed to douse the flames at the Dadumajra dump site, while it increased to 8 lakh litres in 2020 and went up to around 18.25 lakh litres till September 2021. In 2019, the fire tenders made around 25 rounds to the Dadumajra dump site to douse fires. This increased to 90 rounds in 2020 and till September this year, 165 rounds have already been made. This March, a major fire broke out at the site that took around a week to be completely doused.RTI replyThe figures on water consumption in dousing the flames at Dadumajra site were accessed and collated by Amit Sharma, a management consultant and resident of Sector 27, under the Right to Information Act. Sharma is also pursuing a case in the Punjab and high court, seeking resolution of the dumping site problem.The water used by the fire department is mainly from tubewells, which can otherwise be used for drinking purposes, said a municipal corporation (MC) official requesting anonymity.“The dumping site is not only leaving a negative impact on the environment and people’s health, but is also leading to large quantities of precious drinking water being diverted towards firefighting operations at the site,” said Sharma.The average per capita consumption of water in the city stands at 245 lpcd (litres per capita per day). This year’s 18.25 lakh litre water (used for dousing fires at the site) is enough to fulfil 7,500 persons’ daily water needs. Similarly, the 40 lakh litres used over the last six years could have been used to meet around 16,000 persons’ daily water needs.Dumping site messMore than two lakh metric tonne (MT) is fresh waste on the site, and five lakh MT is the legacy waste of more than 20 years (till 2005).The daily generation of solid waste in the city is around 550-600 MT, but with less than 50 MT waste being processed every day at the Solid Waste Processing Plan, Sector 25, most of it is being dumped at the site unprocessed.Notably, around five lakh MT of legacy waste was to be “bio-mined and processed through scientific procedures”, and the entire land of about 25 acres was to be reclaimed by May this year. The deadline has been extended to June 2023. But of the total legacy waste of five lakh MT, only around two lakh MT (40%) has been removed as yet.The ₹33-crore legacy mining project was launched with much fanfare in December 2019 by the then UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the presence of MP Kirron Kher.For expediting the legacy mining work, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, said, “We have increased the belt from 3 to 4 to speed up the progress. Now, daily progress 1,100 tonne per day.”On stopping frequent fires at the dumping site, MC chief engineer NP Sharma, said, “The fires have taken place in the fresh waste dumping site. We are examining different permanent solutions to it, particularly, before the onset of summer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-6-years-40-lakh-litres-of-water-went-into-dousing-flames-at-dadumajra-dump-site-101638129982583.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Speeding car jumps divider, mows down two auto drivers||Three persons, including two auto drivers, died after a rashly driven car met with an accident in front of Chandigarh University in Gharuan, Mohali, on Sunday afternoon. As per the police, the Verna Hyundai car, bearing registration number PB10- ER 9909, was coming at breakneck speed from Chandigarh side when it hit a road divider and ran over two auto drivers, who were sipping tea on the slip road. The car then hit an electric pole nearby, leaving the car occupants injured too. One of the car occupants, identified Sanjeet Singh, 26, was declared brought dead at the Kharar civil hospital.The two auto drivers who succumbed in the mishap have been identified as Surinder Singh, 41, and Zameel Khan, 40, both residents of Gharuan. Gharuan station house officer (SHO) Himmat Singh said, “The impact of the collision can be gauged from the fact that the car was left completely damaged.” Police have recovered liquor bottles from the vehicle.As per the police, there were five persons in the car -- Sanjeet Singh, 26, Ankush Kumar, 28, Arvinder Singh, 35, Rahul Yadav, 33, and Bikramjit Singh, 34. Police have booked Ankush Kumar, who is said to have been behind the wheel at the time. He is also critically injured. As per eyewitnesses, the car occupants were under the influence of liquor at the time of the mishap. “We are investigating the details of the car occupants and their occupation. Since they are critically injured, we could not take their statements,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-speeding-car-jumps-divider-mows-down-two-auto-drivers-101638129682309.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 21 new cases emerge in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 21 fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Sunday, with Chandigarh reporting 14 cases alone. No death was reported on the day. Seven cases surfaced in Mohali while no new case was reported from Panchkula. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSChandigarh Cricket Association logs winChandigarh Cricket Association recorded a fine four-wicket win over Yamnuna Nagar Cricket Academy in a match played during the Under-16 Inter-Academy Cricket Tournament organised by Chandigarh Cricket Association-Haryana at GMSSS, Sector 19. Batting first, YCA were bowled out for 150 runs in 28.4 overs. In reply, CCA achieved the target in 27.3 overs.AIU’s two-day conference concludesThe two-day conference of the north zone of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) at Shoolini University concluded on Saturday. The conference stressed on removing disconnect between universities and government in fulfilling sustainable development goals (SDGs) through funded projects and internships. The vice-chancellors, who joined both in offline and online modes, were convinced that the goals set by the United Nations for sustainable development cannot be achieved without active participation of the institutions of higher learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-21-new-cases-emerge-in-chandigarh-tricity-101638129502214.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP chief, Congress vice-president have heated exchange over city’s development||Heated words were exchanged as BJP city president Arun Sood and Chandigarh Congress vice-president Pawan Sharma discussed residents’ issues and blamed each other’s parties at the “matdata puchta hai” event organised by Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) on Sunday, where members of over 100 RWAs were present.Sharma spoke about the declining state of cleanliness and how Chandigarh’s rank in the Swachh Survey has dropped every year. He also alleged that funds collected under cow cess have been used to pay the salaries of MC employees instead.Saying that he would resign if this is the case, Sood said, “A large gaushala is being constructed in Raipur Kalan village and the city hasn’t had a single accident due to stray cattle since 2016. When the MC was working under the Congress, the tender given for the Dadumajra garbage processing plant had no exit clause. By January, we will start tendering for a new plant with a 500-600 tonne capacity to manage waste.” Sood also spoke about how a committee with three non-official board members to resolve the need-based changes issue has been constitutedHowever, Sood left the event saying that he had other commitments and many of the RWA office bearers expressed surprise over him leaving early.Hardeep Singh, city head of the Shiromani Akali Dal, also confronted Sood over development in villages of the city. “Apart from Badheri and Buterla, no village has been developed. Only now, a few projects have been started as the elections are right around the corner.” Sharma added that many villages which came under the MC in 2018 have suffered due to lack of representation.Convener of Aam Aadmi Party in Chandigarh, Prem Garg, was also present and discussed the strategy for regularising need-based changes for Chandigarh Housing Board allottees and for coming up with community parkings. “After 15 years under the Congress and 10 years under the BJP, ask yourself if you are happy. We will use the Delhi model to solve your problems,” he said to the RWA office bearers present here.When residents raised questions about whether AAP will actually be able to provide free electricity and water, Sharma intervened and said it is not possible. “Even after the MC passes a bill, Chandigarh is governed by the administration and they have final say. Free water and electricity in a city like Chandigarh are not plausible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bjp-chief-congress-vice-president-have-heated-exchange-over-city-s-developement-101638129144851.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||KGMU resident docs may shun work today||Patients might face difficulty at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Monday as resident doctors are likely to abstain from work in protest against delay in NEET PG counselling. The resident doctors took out a candle march on Sunday evening to register their protest, at the KGMU main gate. A nationwide call by the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association was given for suspension of OPD from November 27. KGMU authorities said the resident doctors had not given any notice for strike. “Patient services will run smoothly as usual. No resident doctor has given any notice regarding strike,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson , KGMU. The resident doctors are demanding that counselling be held immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-resident-docs-may-shun-work-today-101638129082533.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab assembly elections: Illegal hoardings of political parties put up across Mohali||Even though the Vidhan Sabha elections are yet to be announced in Punjab, illegal hoardings and banners continue to dot Mohali. Political parties, desperate to catch attention of voters, have not spared even an electric pole or tree in the past week, but the municipal corporation has turned a blind eye towards the situation.There are around 100 illegal hoardings of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Airport Road and other roads of the city, highlighting his achievements in the past month.Even former mayor Kulwant Singh, who has announced that he will contest elections from Mohali, has put up illegal hoardings in the entire city.Municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said all illegal hoarding will be removed on Monday. “Hoardings can only be displayed on the sites allotted by MC. Several political parties have entered the fray and are putting up hoardings without paying any heed to rules and regulations.”On the allotted sites, companies, who were allotted contract, are charging between ₹60,000 and ₹1 lakh for one month, depending on the location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2022-punjab-assembly-elections-illegal-hoardings-of-political-parties-put-up-across-mohali-101638128844673.html
29-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj police arrest suspect, claim cracking murders of four of a family||Prayagraj police have arrested a suspect with strong circumstantial evidence against him indicating his involvement in the gruesome murders of four members of a family, including a woman who was also raped, at Mohanganj Gohri village earlier this week.The bodies of a 47-year-old man, his 45-year-old wife, their 25-year-old daughter and 10-year-old differently able son were found at their house in the village on Thursday (November 25) morning. In connection with the crime, an FIR was lodged against 11 people of whom 8 were arrested by police on November 26.The 23-year-old suspect Pawan Saroj used to stalk the woman and would send her messages on WhatsApp. “The victims and the suspect belong to same caste and prima facie it appears that one sided love affair was the reason behind the gruesome killings and rape with the woman,” police officials said at a press conference here on Sunday. However, the police officials maintained that the suspect was still to be questioned about his accomplices and the sequence of events.Addressing media persons, ADG zone Prem Prakash said scanning of murdered 25-year-old woman’s WhatsApp messages revealed that she was receiving messages from a number that was traced to be of one Pawan Kumar Saroj, a labourer. As per the police, the last message that Pawan sent to the woman on November 21 was “I Love You” in reply to which the woman sent “I Hate You”. After his arrest, Pawan tried to mislead the police but later confessed that he had been sending messages to the woman since September 18 with his love proposals which were continuously rejected by her.While the woman had deleted her chats, the messages sent by Pawan were found in his mobile. Circumstantial evidence indicates that Pawan committed the murder with the help of his accomplices as he was enraged over being rejected by the woman. The forensic team found blood spots on Pawan’s shirt.“Moreover, Pawan stopped sending messages to the woman after her family and she were murdered. Now the police will take Pawan’s remand of Pawan to question him about his other accomplices involved in the murders and will take his DNA sample to match it with vaginal swab of the raped woman and bite marks found on her body. Investigations also revealed that Pawan lived at some distance from the house of the victims and was a regular visitor to a nearby brick kiln”, ADG added.He also said the arrested accused, who were named in the FIR, had denied their involvement in the murders. “The named accused were locked in a dispute with the brother of the murdered person and his family and no evidence has been found which could establish their involvement in the murders. However, their DNA samples will also be taken for matching them with the vaginal swab preserved for detailed examination,” the ADG said.The one who was raped was adult : ADGADG Prem Prakash said on the basis of educational documents of the murdered woman her date of birth was June, 1996 and it was now established that she was not a minor as alleged in the FIR lodged by the kin of the victims.The ADG said the suspect Pawan Kumar Saroj hails from Korsand village in Tharwai area of trans-Ganga and is illiterate. He used to take help of google voice to send messages to the woman. Call records of accused being scanned: SSPPrayagraj SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said Pawan has saved the number of the woman in his mobile as Gauri Ma’am and despite being illiterate, he can identify alphabets in his mobile. Some injury marks have also been found on his body about which he failed to give any satisfactory answers.“Further investigations in the case are underway and soon names of other culprits in the case will also come to light. The post-mortem examination report has established that the woman was raped but no evidence of sexual assault with her mother has been found. Call records of Pawan and other persons are being scanned for getting clues,” the SSP added.Earlier, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra along with the delegations of other political parties visited the kin of victims and assured all possible help to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-police-arrest-suspect-claim-cracking-murders-of-four-of-a-family-101638128604200.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K undergraduate girl drowns in Ganga||An undergraduate student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) died after slipping and falling into the Ganga at Ganga Barrage, the IIT-K said in a statement on Sunday. Sejal Jain was a second year BS student in the Department of Earth Sciences.On Saturday, at around 6 pm, a message was received by the Security Control Room of the Institute, that Sejal had accidentally slipped and fallen into the Ganga at Ganga Barrage, IIT-K spokesperson, Girish Pant said in a statement.“Immediately, the Nawabganj Police Station was contacted and the police team rushed to the location. A search team of police went into the river and found Sejal Jain drowned and in an unconscious state,” the statement read.Meanwhile, the security officer of the Institute and Vedant Sikka, president, Student Gymkhana of the Institute rushed to the site. Sejal was rushed to the Hallet Hospital in an ambulance. At 7.15 pm, after a few investigations, the doctor on emergency duty declared that Sejal Jain was brought dead.“During the initial investigation, it was brought to our knowledge that Sejal Jain had gone to the Ganga Barrage along with seven other students. During their visit, a few of the students, including Sejal Jain, had crossed the safety railing of the bridge and reached towards the ramp of the barrage gate,” Pant added.The press statement reads: “Out of curiosity, Sejal Jain crossed the danger area alone and accidentally slipped from the open space into the water of the barrage and drowned.“We mourn the untimely loss of a young bright mind and pray that God gives her family and friends the strength to bear this loss. With profound grief, we inform you of the tragic and untimely demise of one of our beloved students.”DCP, West, BBTGS Murthy, said the body has been recovered, sent for an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitk-undergraduate-girl-drowns-in-ganga-101638127942158.html
29-11-2021||Other||Vegetable prices in Lucknow soar due to high fuel rates, hoarding||Lucknow Prices of vegetables are on an upswing in the retail markets across Lucknow, burning a hole in the people’s pocket. It is not just tomato, prices of other veggies have also doubled this month. “The rates of vegetables have almost doubled during the last one month and there is no possibility of getting reduced. We expect the government to slash the fuel prices and ensure action against those indulging in hoarding of potatoes, garlic, onions etc.,” said Meera Yadav, a housewife and resident of Alambagh. According to Tinku Sonkar, one of the leading stockiests at Naveen Galla Mandi, the price of tomato has gone up from ₹35 to ₹80 per kg in the city while the price of onion has also increased to ₹40 from ₹25 previously. He added, “Potatoe is being sold at ₹30 per kg which was selling at ₹20 per kg a month back. Capsicum is being sold at ₹130 per kg in the city, which was only ₹65 per kg a month ago.” “It seems prices of potatoes and onions are likely to hold on till January because of higher demand due to the marriage season, followed by festivals including Christmas and New Year. The demand is more than supply and moreover, weather will be changing. There will be fog and smog so the transportation of edible items will be hit,” Sonkar added. “Other reasons behind price rise are increase in rates of fuel and hoarding by the big suppliers,” said Sanjay Gupta, president of Uttar Pradesh Udyog Vyapar Mandal. “The increased transportation costs due to high fuel prices have pushed the prices of vegetables up in the city. That’s why the prices of vegetables transported from other cities have almost doubled this month,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vegetable-prices-in-lucknow-soar-due-to-high-fuel-rates-hoarding-101638127822203.html
29-11-2021||Other||Realtor wanted in 36 cases of cheating arrested in Lucknow||Lucknow A realtor and bike taxi firm owner Abhay Kushwaha, wanted in as many as 36 criminal cases of fraud, was arrested from Rajajipuram locality here on Sunday, said police. According to a press note issued by Lucknow commissionerate police, a team of Hazratganj police station arrested Kushwaha in connection with a case of cheating lodged there. Nearly 35 criminal cases were registered against Kushwaha at Vibhuti Khand police station in past three years and he was absconding since then. Inspector in-charge of Hazratganj police station Shyam Babu Shukla said that the accused had confessed to have collected around ₹61 crore from nearly 10,000 investors in the name of providing plots and shops on cheap rates. Police had also declared a reward of ₹25,000 on Kushwaha’s arrest, the press note stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/realtor-wanted-in-36-cases-of-cheating-arrested-in-lucknow-101638127162769.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Minor booked for sexual assault of 4-year old in Chikhali||PUNE A 12-year-old boy was booked by the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday for sexually assaulting a 4-year-old child in Pimpri Chinchwad.The incident allegedly happened on November 15 around 4:30pm in the 12-year-old’s house located in the vicinity of the child’s house.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the child’s mother at Chikhali police station on Saturday.The boy allegedly lured the child into an isolated corner by offering money to buy a chocolate, according to the complaint.The mother of the child claims that she caught the 12-year-old in the act.“The mother saw it and raised an alarm. However, she discussed the issue with her husband and they came to lodge a complaint yesterday (Saturday). The girl was sent for medical examination and so was the boy. Now the defenition of sexual assault has become more exhaustive, therefore, we have regsitered a case,” said Assistant police inspector Toufik Sayyed who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 376(i)(j) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 5(m), and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act was registered at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-booked-for-sexual-assault-of-4-year-old-in-chikhali-101638127103414.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Target to prepare 2,500 doctors every year: Khattar||Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said that the process of opening one medical college in every district is underway to meet the demand of doctors in the state.He was addressing the Doctors Day award function at Indradhanush auditorium in Sector 5, Panchkula. He said that a target has been set to prepare 2,500 doctors every year and for this, MBBS seats have been increased to 1685 from 700 in 2014.Khattar and Haryana health minister Anil Vij honoured 90 doctors above the age of 75 years by presenting them with the “Vat Vriksha Award” including 92-year-old Dr RS Sangwan from Sirsa, was also among those who received the honour.“If we consider the population of Haryana as 2.70 crore in 2021, then 27,000 doctors are required. To meet this demand, a target has been set to produce 2,500 doctors every year,” CM said.Khattar also said that the process of setting up an AIIMS each in Rewari and Panchkula is ongoing and 25 acres of land in Panchkula has already been handed over to the central government. “Along with MBBS seats, about 600 seats for PG courses have also been increased. Priority is being given to the education and health departments in comparison to other departments in allocation of budget also,” he said.Vij said that many people have lost their lives during Covid-19 pandemic, out of which 28 people belong to the health department. “A wall of memory will be built in the headquarters and district hospitals,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/target-to-prepare-2-500-doctors-every-year-khattar-101638127102317.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM kicks off Antyodaya Parivaar policy to lift annual income of over 3 lakh BPL families||Promising to raise the annual income of identified economically weaker families up to ₹1.80 lakh by 2025, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday kicked off the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana.Under the scheme, self-employment opportunities will be created to help around 3.25 lakh families with an annual income below ₹1 lakh.Of around 70 lakh families in Haryana, 38,000 families have an annual income below ₹50,000, while 3.25 lakh families have an annual income below ₹1 lakh. Of these 3.25 lakh families, the government has verified the annual income data of 1.5 lakh families. And these families will be invited to camps being organised at 180 locations from Monday.The eligible families for this programme have been identified on the basis of the Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) data. During the camps, to be monitored by the chief minister’s office (CMO), committees of officials will interact with the families to gather information about their skills. On the basis of this interaction, the committees will recommend possible ways of economic betterment of such families in the next 27 days.“It was noticed that economically weaker people are unable to avail benefits of government schemes for multiple reasons. In the first phase of the campaign, we will reach out to 1.5 lakh families and identify how to increase their income,” Khattar said in a news conference here, adding that small entrepreneurs will be promoted through this initiative.“The Antyodaya Gram Utthan Melas will be held across state from November 29 to December 25. Initial target of the government is to increase annual income of these families up to ₹1 lakh and later to ₹1.80 lakh per annum,” Khattar said.“Banks sanction loans to start small businesses under the Pradhan Mantri Start-up Yojana. On the same lines, in Haryana, economically weaker families’ annual income will be raised through the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana,” the CM added.He said the aim is to financially strengthen families standing last in the queue. He said 42 government schemes have been identified to increase income of such families. Preference will be given to the Scheduled Caste, Backward Class, women, and physically disabled persons.He said skills in computers, driving and embroidery, stitching, etc have been included in self-employment, besides business in industrial and commercial sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy farming.‘Omicron has not surfaced in Haryana so far’Meanwhile, Khattar said “hope for the best and be prepared for the worst” has been the strategy of his government in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.Responding to a question about steps the state government plans to take amid concerns of new Covid variant, Omicron, Khattar said so far no such variant has surfaced or is detected in Haryana.“The existing restrictions,” he said, “will continue and there is no plan to further relax restrictions on gathering, etc. The deputy commissioners have been directed to take precautions while giving permission to organise local fairs.”“I personally observe the Covid data regularly and take necessary steps as per the emerging situation,” Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-kicks-off-antyodaya-parivaar-policy-to-lift-annual-income-of-over-3-lakh-bpl-families-101638126922355.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||32 farm unions from Punjab to meet at Singhu border today||As many as 32 farmers’ organisations from Punjab are set to meet on Monday at Singhu border to take a call on their future course of actions after the Union cabinet decided to repeal three farm laws which were bought in last year.The winter session of the Parliament will start from Monday and the BJP government is likely to repeal these laws through parliamentary procedure.BKU (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill said 32 farm unions from Punjab will meet at Singhu border on Monday to decide the future course of action as per the discussion on repealing the farm laws and bringing in law to ensure MSP in the Parliament.“We are expecting that the Centre will repeal these farm laws during the session and will give a guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) by forming a committee in a time-bound manner,” he said.“If the government accepts our demands of amending the Electricity Act, compensation to deceased farmers’ families and job to their next of kin, revocation of FIRs registered during the agitation, and strict action against the Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, we welcome the Centre’s decision to repeal the farm laws and decriminalise stubble burning,” he added.Butta Singh said they will inform the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) about their decision in the December 4 meeting.“If the government accepts our demands, we will go back to our homes. After that, we will not protest or canvas against the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections,” he added.Centre shying from holding dialogue with SKM: Farm leadersSKM leader Inderjeet Singh accused the Union government of not holding meetings with farm leaders to end the deadlock.“The Centre has taken the unilateral decision of repealing the three farm laws and decriminalising stubble burning. The government is shying from holding meetings with farm leaders. We will continue our protest till our six demands are met,” he said.“The government should give a legal guarantee on the MSP by following the Swaminathan Commission and will not accept the formation of a committee on the MSP. The agitation will be called off after the Union government holds a meeting with SKM leaders and accepts our demands,” Singh added.“PM Modi should call us for a dialogue and accept our demands as a goodwill gesture to the farming community. The government should share their plans about how many crops will be purchased at MSP and how many new mandis will be formed,” he said.Interacting with the media in Bhiwani, Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the state government is procuring crops on MSP but it’s impossible to give a legal guarantee on it.“The government has to invest a lot in carrying out developmental projects and it is not feasible to give a legal guarantee on MSP,” Dalal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-farm-unions-from-punjab-to-meet-at-singhu-border-today-101638126742298.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Minor pillion rider killed in accident on Wagholi-Kesnand road||PUNE: A minor boy riding pillion with his relative was killed in a road accident on the Wagholi-Kesnand road after a truck rammed into the vehicle the two were riding, on Friday night. The deceased boy has been identified as Kartik Jogdand (14) while the injured rider has been identified as Viajinath Waghmare (34), both residents of Wagholi. The took place at 6pm on Friday near Konark Plaza Society on Wagholi-Kesnand road. “Jogdand and Waghmare were heading towards Kesnanad to visit a relative. The truck was coming from the opposite direction and was headed towards Wagholi when it rammed into them. We arrested the driver, but he was granted bail,” said Assistant police inspector Suhas Patil of Lonikand police station who is investigating the case. The arrested truck driver has been identified as Sushant Devkar (40) a resident of Chandannagar. He was arrested, produced in court, and released on bail later, said officials. A case was registered under Sections 279, 304(a), 337, 427 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-pillion-rider-killed-in-accident-on-wagholi-kesnand-road-101638126561969.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Pune NGO saves boy from being given away in superstitious ritual||PUNE: The Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, a non-governmental organisation, previously run by Dr Narendra Dabholkar, and the Pune rural police stopped a ceremony of ‘genmal’ in which children are given away to a group of wandering folk artists in Baramati, Pune district on Sunday. The ‘giving away’ ceremony is performed after marrying the child to a woman symbolic of a goddess. The 11-year-old boy who was going to be subjected to the ceremony was born after the parents had made a virtual promise (called “navas” in Marathi) to the gods to give up their child if and after it was born, said officials. “The ceremony is similar to the Devdasi concept where little girls are given up. Because we knew about the Devdasi concept, we were alerted when we received an invitation to a child’s wedding on WhatsApp. We informed the local police and Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police, directed the local police to provide us help,” said Nandidi Jadhav, head of Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti Pune unit who spearheaded the operation. The child’s father invited 400 people and had taken a loan to organise a feast. He had planned to give his child to a wandering folk artists’ group from Gunawadi village in the fear of inviting the scorn of the goddess, according to the NGO. “We spoke to the person (guru) who had suggested this ritual in front of the parents. But when he realised that other people were involved, he did a U-turn and said that he did not advise anything of this sort. We contacted the Child Welfare Committee too but realised that the parents are capable and had simply been misled. So, we did not register a case and let the matter settle down,” said police inspector Sunil Mahadik of Baramati taluka police station. The man switched off his phone when he realised that the police were involved. The parents who were taken aback when he refused to own up to his actions have assured the NGO and the police that the child will be admitted to a school for primary education, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-ngo-saves-boy-from-being-given-away-in-superstitious-ritual-101638126202075.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar attends first session of Japanese class||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended his first online class of Japanese language on Sunday.Khattar had announced his decision to enroll for the Japanese language course in August when he formally launched the online certificate course at a Kurukshetra University event. The CM declared that he will be the first student to enrol for the course designed for government functionaries.The CM attended the class along with five senior officers of the state government. In his opening remarks, the CM said knowing regional languages binds the nation in one thread.“Now is the time for international unity, peace and business opportunities through learning international languages,” he added.PM Modi hails CM in a tweetHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, 67, was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for enrolling himself in the special online course launched by the Kurukshetra University.“I have known @mlkhattar Ji for years and he is someone who loves to learn new things. His decision to learn Japanese is another step in that direction,” Modi wrote on Twitter, sharing a story published by the HT.Khattar quickly responded by tweeting, “Curiosity is the fuel for discovery, inquiry and learning. Knowledge is infinite, and I believe we should strive to gather as much as we can during our own lifetimes. Thank you for your kind appreciation @narendramodi ji.”Next class on WednesdayThe introductory class lasted for one-and-a-half hour from 9am and the CM used some words of the Japanese language. Khattar, along with other students, prepared some notes.As per statement issued by the Kurukshetra University, Japan’s course instructor Ranjan Gupta said, “It is important to know the history, culture and people of a country before knowing its language. This makes learning easy, deep seated and convincing.” The next class is on Wednesday.Vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, who also attended the class, praised the CM and Harish Sachdeva, KU alumnus, MD of Wisdom World School, Kurukshetra and CEO of Meritech Company Ltd Tokyo Japan, for providing service of Japanese language instructor Ranjan Gupta for providing their services.Prof Brajesh Sawhney, chairperson of the university’s department of foreign languages, said it was the first class and the teacher talked about basics of the language and culture of Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-attends-first-session-of-japanese-class-101638126142046.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Narrow access road, small entry gate makes boarding at Hadapsar railway station a nightmare||PUNE Passengers at the Hadapsar railway station on Sunday had a harrowing time boarding a tri-weekly train to Hyderabad due to traffic congestion outside Hadapsar railway station. Pune resident Kiran Pisal and his family almost missed the train, Passengers said that it is a nightmare to reach the station . This is mainly due to a narrow approach road outside the main gate of the station, and the rush of vehicles causing traffic congestion. According to passengers, the main station gate is too small and long queues add to their woes. “I had to board the train at 3.30 pm and we reached the station in auto at 3.15 pm. It took us 20 minutes to look for the station. The traffic congestion added to our troubles and we literally had to sprint to platform No.3 to bord the train. The railways and PMC should come up with a solution to resolve this issue as passengers have to suffer a lot,” said Pisal. The Hadapsar (Pune) to Hyderabad (train no. 07013) is scheduled for departure on every Sunday, Tuesday and Friday at 3.30 pm. While the same train returns to Hadapsar on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday. Passengers start arriving at 2.30 pm or even earlier as they have trouble locating the station which is located quite inside from the main Mundhwa road. The auto stand outside the station and the railway quarters makes it impossible for commuters to navigate. Another passenger Gaurav Kalantri said, “There is complete mismanagement at the Hadapsar railway station. Proper signage boards should be installed to give direction to passengers. The Hyderabad train departs from platform No. 3 which should be brought to platform No. 1 which is just next to the main entrance gate and it would be easier for passengers to board the train.” Talking about the issue the Pune divisional railway manager Renu Sharma said, “The development work of the Hadapsar railway station is currently underway. We are aware of the passengers’ issue with regards to traffic congestion while entering the station, and this will be resolved. More passenger amenities will come up at the station as more train operations will start from here in next six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/narrow-access-road-small-entry-gate-makes-boarding-at-hadapsar-railway-station-a-nightmare-101638125961979.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Family planning in Pune: No male sterilisation, but 43.3% of women surveyed underwent procedure||According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS), in Pune district, male sterilisation accounted for 0% of the total family planning methods used while female sterilisation accounted for 43.3% of the total family planning methods used in 2019-20, which brings to the fore the disproportionate burden on women vis-à-vis men when it comes to sterilisation. Although male sterilisation is much safer and quicker than female sterilisation, the wrong perceptions have often pushed the responsibility on women. Earlier in 2015-16, female sterilisation accounted for 55.5% of the total family planning methods used.The first phase of the fifth round of the NFHS was carried out between June 2019 and January 2020, and the results were released in December 2020. A few days ago, centres released a detailed analysis of the key results from the second phase carried out between January 2020 and April 2021.The stigma associated with male sterilisation that it could lead to physical weakness is the main reason why men do not come forward, said Dr Kalapana Apta, general secretary of the family planning association (FPA). “The disproportionate burden on women to undergo sterilisation is forced at times as men fail to take the responsibility. After going through the biological process of bearing the child in her womb for months, the woman is still forced to undergo the operation because the man simply refuses to share the responsibility of family planning.”Avlokita Mane, president of the Pune branch of the FPA, said, “In the past six months, we have carried out about 18 vasectomies. However, this is after the massive health campaigns that we conducted over the months in which we also convinced people to undergo non-scalpel vasectomies that are carried out in under four minutes. By contrast, we have had women walking nine miles to undergo the operation as men do not prioritise this and so, women have to undergo the operation. However, we have also had men who were willing to undergo the operation but could not undertake it because of their other ailments like hypertension or even urinary tract infection which renders them unfit to undergo the operation. Sometimes we even end up convincing the family to have the man undergo the operation because the woman thinks this might make the man, who is the sole breadwinner of the family, weak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/family-planning-in-pune-no-male-sterilisation-but-43-3-of-women-surveyed-underwent-procedure-101638125723086.html
29-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP to involve RWAs to check building plan, pollution violations||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday asked various resident welfare associations (RWAs) and residents of private colonies to come forward and share information about violations of building bylaws and pollution norms with the department to improve enforcement. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that they have generated an email (dtpenfoc@gmail.com) which is being shared with the public through which all stakeholders can share information about the violations and lodge complaints in their respective areas. “The complaints can be lodged and action would be taken on a priority basis. But it must be ensured that this should not become a tool for harassing residents. If complaints are lodged with ulterior motives, then action would be taken against such complainants as well,” he said. The DTCP officials also said that complaints should be lodged only with regard to buildings, which have been recently constructed and issued occupancy certificates. “It has come across that in newly constructed buildings where OCs have been issued, the owners are violating norms blatantly and this is the reason that five teams were constituted recently to conduct inspections. These acts will not be condoned,” said Bhath. The officials said that in the last two weeks alone they have cancelled around 50 OCs for building plan violations. In a related move, the department on Saturday also decided that information regarding OCs, building plans and structures would be given only to those persons, who are authorised by the owners. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement, said that department is taking action against property owners as they are still engaged in making rooms in stilts, covering cutouts and similar other violations. “There is need to follow the norms, else OCs will be cancelled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dtcp-to-involve-rwas-to-check-building-plan-pollution-violations-101638125481948.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Omicron Covid variant has principals worried about Pune schools reopening for all classes||PUNE As the Omicron Covid variant has emerged in various countries, parents and teachers are now in two minds about reopening of off-line school for Classes 1 to 7 in Maharashtra. Pune parents noted that the government should rethink the decision for the safety of the children.Prashant Khande, National President, All India Parents, Students and Teachers Association (AIPSTA), said that the transmissibility of the new variant is faster and so the government should wait at least for two months before reopening schools.“Younger students from Classes 1 to 4 should not be given permission to attend offline classes. Other classes can be given permission with 20 to 30 per cent attendance. Anyways, this academic year will be over in just three months and so, the education department should focus on the upcoming academic year. Students’ lives should not be risked by reopening of schools. Moreover, students are not vaccinated. We should prepare for this Covid wave,” said Khande. Rajendra Singh, president of the Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said that approvals by the task force to reopen schools came after a detailed analysis of the Covid situation right now.“In my opinion the classes should restart in hybrid mode, that is offline and online for Class 5 onwards. However, Covid protocols are important and should be followed. As private schools we will be taking utmost care to ensure the safety of our students,” said Singh.He added that private schools are focused on the health, safety and protection of the children.“We can’t take chances regarding the education of the students as it is the future of this country. Sooner or later we have to live with this virus and figure out a way wherein children receive education and are safe as well,” said Singh.Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said that the government should wait a while before reopening schools. “School for Classes 8 to 12 has reopened. Parents understand that offline education has a deeper impact on the children, but at the same time they are scared about safety. With this new variant, parents will be more scared to send the child to school. Hence, the decision should be delayed,” said Sinnarkar.She pointed out that this season has other viral infections as well. “As children have low immunity, they catch the flu. But, it can also be Covid. Moreover, students are not vaccinated. Offline education is important, but safety of students has a higher priority,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-covid-variant-has-principals-worried-about-pune-schools-reopening-for-all-classes-101638125425738.html
29-11-2021||Gurugram||Get trade licence or face sealing, MCG tells 230 shop owners||htreporters@hindustantimes.comOwners of at least 230 shops have been served notices by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to procure a trade licence or else their structures will be sealed, said officials on Sunday.On Saturday, the MCG sealed 15 shops in Palam Vihar, 14 shops in Sector 4, and nine in sectors 49 and 50.“It is compulsory for any commercial property to procure a trade licence from the civic body under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. Failure of which will result in the MCG issuing a notice to the owner of the property, and sealing such properties subsequently,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.The sealing drive conducted by the MCG on Saturday primarily covered commercial structures in shopping malls. The drive was initiated a day after a taxation review meeting conducted by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Friday.During the review meeting, it was found that the collection from taxes for the 2021-22 fiscal was dipping and directions were subsequently issued to expedite recoveries.Following a taxation review meeting in July, MCG had sealed five shops in Sector 15 part 2 as the shop owners had failed to procure trade licenses from the civic body.As per MCG’s taxation records, there are more than 47,000 commercial properties falling under the civic body’s jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/get-trade-licence-or-face-sealing-mcg-tells-230-shop-owners-101638125182164.html
29-11-2021||Pune||Omicron worry: CM orders audit of all Coivd-related infrastructure||PUNE The emergence of Omicron, a new Covid-19 variant, has people worried and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with representatives from district administration across the state, has directed them to stay alert and ensure that Covid-19 infrastructure is in place. CM Thackeray also issued renewed guidelines based on a letter issued by the central government. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) at Pune Zilla Parishad said, “The chief minister has asked us to audit the Covid19 infrastructure, that set up specifically for Covid-19. He asked us to ensure that the machinery is working and that the minor and major repair works are completed.” Dr Ashish Bharti, Pune municipal corporation’s health department chief said, “We are yet to get guidelines on the same, however, since most international flights in the state land at Mumbai airport, restrictions would be strict over there. We have also pointed out that there needs to be specific guidelines for travellers who travel via domestic flights or maybe even via road. We will also take a pre-approval for the sake of continuing the agency which was running the Covid19 jumbo centre now, so that we are not delayed last minute.” The Pune Jumbo centre at COEP grounds has been shut for patients since July as the number of Covid-19 cases fell, however, the structure was not been dismantled. At a Covid-19 review meet on Saturday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar asked the admin to keep the structure intact until the end of the year, keeping in view of new variant. Another official who also attended the meeting, requesting anonymity, said, “The CM has instructed us to do everything that we need to prevent the new variant. He has also instructed the administration to start work immediately without waiting for the Centre’s instructions. He also instructed that close attention be paid to all passengers arriving at airports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-worry-cm-orders-audit-of-all-coivd-related-infrastructure-101638125123489.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Two ticket windows opened at Taj Mahal for visitors’ convenience||Agra Two ticket windows, one each at the eastern and western gates, were opened at the Taj Mahal for convenience of those finding it difficult to book online tickets to see the monument. The ticket windows became functional from Saturday onwards. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is also planning to open ticket windows at other monuments, including Fatehpur Sikri, Agra Fort, Itimad-ud-daula, Sikandra, Mehtab Bagh, Rambagh and Mariam Tomb from December 1. However, this decision might be reviewed in view of threats about the new variant of corona virus. “Many people faced problems in booking tickets online for the Taj Mahal. So two ticket windows, one each at the eastern and western gates of Taj Mahal were opened from Saturday onwards,” informed Dr Rajkumar Patel, superintending archaeologist, Agra circle of ASI. “We have plans to open one ticket window each at Fatehpur Sikri, Agra Fort, Itimad-ud-daula, Sikandra, Mehtab Bagh, Rambagh and Mariam Tomb from December 1. However, due to the threat of the new variant of corona virus, this decision might be reviewed,” he said. The offline sale of tickets at the monuments was discouraged to minimize assembling of visitors in the time of pandemic. However, as many people complained that they were unable to get online tickets, offline tickets were re-introduced, at least at the Taj Mahal. Despite the fears of a third wave of Covid -19 and the new Delta variant, the inflow of tourists at Taj Mahal continues to grow this winter. The number multiplies manifold during the weekends. On Saturday, there were more than 23,000 visitors at the Taj Mahal. It may be recalled that with the outbreak of Covid -19, Taj Mahal gates were closed on March 17, 2020 and opened on September 21, 2020. However, with onslaught of second wave this year, Taj Mahal was again closed on April 16, 2021 and opened two months later on June 16, 2021 but with conditions laid down by the district administration and tickets were available only online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-ticket-windows-opened-at-taj-mahal-for-visitors-convenience-101638125122132.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Minor raped repeatedly by stepfather in Chirag Delhi||A minor girl’s stepfather allegedly raped her several times in Chirag Delhi, the police said, adding that the suspect is at large.The police said they received a complaint at the Malviya Nagar police station on Saturday. The complaint, said police, mentioned that the minor girl lived in a shelter home for children from underprivileged economic backgrounds in Dehradun, and that she was in Delhi for her vacations.“The victim came to her mother’s rented house in Chirag Delhi area for a vacation from June to August. The girl’s stepfather also lived in that house. The complaint alleged that the man raped the girl during her stay in Chirag Delhi repeatedly,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker.A case under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered. The police said investigations are underway to arrest the suspect, the DCP said.While crimes against women in Delhi declined by 24.65% in 2020 as compared to 2019, possibly on account of the Covid-19 pandemic that kept people mostly indoors last year, the national capital still topped the Union Territories (UTs) in the number of rapes reported, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data released in September this year.Delhi accounted for nearly 40 per cent of all rape cases and almost 25 per cent murder cases among 19 metropolitan cities in India in 2020, according to latest NCRB data.During 2020, India reported a total of 2,533 cases of rape across the metropolitan cities, with Delhi accounting for the maximum 967 (38 per cent) cases followed by 409 in Jaipur (16 per cent), 322 in Mumbai (12 per cent), the NCRB data showed. Bengaluru reported 108 rape cases, Chennai 31 and Kolkata 11 during the year.Of the total rape victims in the 2,533 cases, 2,448 were above the age of 18 years while the remaining were minors, according to the NCRB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-raped-repeatedly-by-stepfather-in-chirag-delhi-101638125001722.html
29-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram police probe extortion racket at Banjara market||A day after a 41-year-old man was arrested for allegedly assaulting a shopkeeper at Banjara market in Sector 56 who refused to pay “protection” money to a group of locals, the district police on Sunday launched a probe into the alleged extortion racket being run in the area. After the recent incident, more shopkeepers are coming up with complaints and the matter seems to be serious, police officials said. Police on Saturday registered a case of extortion against 15 people at Sector 53 police station. Police said there are small eateries and shops in the sector whose owners are being forced to pay anything between ₹2,000 and ₹6,000 a month to some local goons and those who denied were assaulted and threatened for life. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police, said that police have launched a probe into the racket. Police arrested suspect Sitam on Saturday in connection with the assault case. “We have taken the suspect in police custody and are questioning him regarding his extortion business. He was running an extortion racket,” Balhara said. Balhara said he has formed several teams that are visiting Sector 56 and are questioning the shopkeepers and cart owners if they are also paying protection money to goons. Police said there are no CCTV cameras installed in the Banjara market as the shopkeepers have encroached upon the land owned by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Police said the 25-acre plot, where the market is operating, is earmarked for the construction of a college, a bus stand and group housing societies, among others.The shops, most of which sell furniture and handicrafts, have come up illegally over the past 15 years in the area and despite repeated notices by the authority, the owners are not vacating the land, said police. Asha Rani, wife of the victim who was assaulted on Friday night, said that the goons extort money from all the shopkeepers. “There have been several incidents where these goons have assaulted the shopkeepers who refused to pay them. Earlier no one complained to police fearing for their life. But now, some shopkeepers, with the help of visitors and buyers, are approaching police,” she said.  When asked about the encroachment, an HSVP official seeking anonymity said, “The authority has already started an anti-encroachment drive across the city. Action will also be taken in Sector 56.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-police-probe-extortion-racket-at-banjara-market-101638124941872.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir gets another threat email, third this week||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir on Sunday received a third threat by email, allegedly from ISIS Kashmir, and investigators said the sender warned the former India cricketer against trusting Delhi Police.Also Read | Gautam Gambhir claims receiving death threats from ISIS, approaches police“Your Delhi Police and IPS Shweta cannot uproot anything. Our spies are also present in the police. All the information is being received about you (sic),” said the latest email received at 1.37am on Sunday. The email referred to Indian Police Service officer Shweta Chauhan, who is investigating another threat by email to Gambhir.The investigation is going on,” a police officer said, requesting anonymity.The parliamentarian from East Delhi had received two death threats on Tuesday and Wednesday, and Delhi Police had strengthened security outside his residence in Rajendra Nagar.Also Read | Gautam Gambhir receives another threat mail hours after security tightened at his Delhi homeThe first death threat warned Gambhir that the group is “going to kill you and your family,” officials said. “A complaint was filed by Gaurav Arora (Gambhir’s personal secretary)... On receiving the complaint, the district police shored up his personal security as well as the security of his residence in the Rajendra Nagar area. Police are currently trying to ascertain the source of the email,” deputy police commissioner (central) Shweta Chauhan had said.Following this, the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit of Delhi Police’s special cell wrote to Google, seeking information about the account handlers, and the registered ID through which the alleged mails were sent.Police said Chauhan was telephonically informed about the second death threat received by Gambhir, allegedly from the same email ID at 2.32 pm on Wednesday. According to the complainant, it contained a video shot from outside Gambhir’s house. “We intended to kill you, but you survived yesterday. If you love the life of your family, stay away from politics and Kashmir issue,” the second email allegedly said.Gambhir won at the East Delhi Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 general elections, defeating Congress candidate Arvinder Singh Lovely by over 390,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gautam-gambhir-gets-another-threat-email-third-this-week-101638124821724.html
29-11-2021||Gurugram||12 night shelters in Gurugram to become operational from Dec 1||As winter has set in, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Sunday decided to make 12 night shelters operational from December 1. Each night shelter will open from 9pm to 10 am, and will have provisions of night-time meals, drinking water, mobile toilets, mattresses, quilts, and heaters, among other such amenities, MCG officials said.Apart from five permanent night shelters at Kanhai community centre, Sheetla Mata Mandir, Bhim Nagar, Kadipur, and Badshahpur, the civic body has decided to install seven portable cabins at Sohna Chowk, Railway Station, Bus Stand Chowk, Basai Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Iffco Chowk, and Vatika Chowk. These night shelters can together accommodate around 600 people, the officials said.Each portable cabin measures 10 feet in height and 28 feet in width and costs around ₹3 lakh. It has a capacity of around 10-12 people while each permanent night shelter can accommodate a minimum of 100 people, the officials said.“We are in the process of tying up with local NGOs to serve meals during the night to those who avail of the facility. We have also procured a mobile ambulance for the purpose. A team of doctors will travel to different night shelters periodically and carry out a health check-up of those seeking shelter,” said Devinder Kumar, zonal taxation officer who has an additional charge of city project officer, MCG.Kumar further said that each shelter will also have a caretaker. “The caretakers will be at the shelters throughout the time they are in operation. They will have the responsibility to alert us of any habitants that are ill so that the doctors can assess them or take them to the nearest hospital if required. In addition, if any woman wants to take shelter at a portable cabin, the MCG will take her to the nearest permanent night shelter where separate rooms have been kept for females,” said Kumar.Till early 2016, the city had only two permanent night shelters at the Kanhai community centre and Bhim Nagar which earlier operated as a dog shelter. At that time, six defunct Haryana roadways buses were converted into temporary night shelters. In late 2016, the MCG introduced portable night shelters, and over the next four years, three more permanent night shelters were opened across the city.Despite opening next week, MCG officials only expect occupancy at the night shelters in the last week of December. “It is only during peak winter, in late December and early January, do the night shelters have any significant occupancy. Otherwise, the cumulative occupancy across all 12 night shelters stays in two digits. Even during peak winter, the occupancy remains at 40-60% of the total capacity. We are planning to make arrangements accordingly,” said another senior MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/12-night-shelters-in-gurugram-to-become-operational-from-dec-1-101638124701666.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt fast tracks Bundelkhand Expressway project||Lucknow: With the state government fast-tracking the 296-km long Bundelkhand expressway project that traverses through seven districts, it is likely to be the next mega project to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon. The Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) claims that around 80 per cent of the project has been completed. Awanish Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, on Sunday, carried out aerial and on-the-spot inspection of the Bundelkhand expressway project. Officials of the district administration of respective districts and UPEIDA were also present. “The Bundelkhand expressway project is in the last stage of completion. Around 80 percent of the construction work has been completed. The project will be inaugurated soon,” said Durgesh Upadhyay, UPEIDA spokesperson. According to government sources, the state government has accorded top priority to completing the Bundelkhand Expressway project and getting it inaugurated by PM Modi before dates for Uttar Pradesh assembly polls are announced. The UPEIDA CEO is personally monitoring progress of the project and is seeking daily updates. The Bundelkhand Expressway has its origin at Bharatkoop in Chitrakoot district. It merges with the Agra– Lucknow Expressway at Kudrail village in Etawah district and traverses through Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Auraiya and Etawah. This expressway would provide faster connectivity with Agra, National Capital Region (NCR), Delhi. Recently, PM Modi had inaugurated the 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway. It starts from Chandsarai village in Lucknow district and ends at Haidaria village on National Highway number 31, 18 kilometres east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border. The key feature of the expressway is the 3.2 km long airstrip to enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force fighter planes in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-fast-tracks-bundelkhand-expressway-project-101638124641667.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Annual winter bird survey: 150 birders record sightings across Capital||With binoculars around their necks and cameras in hand, several birders set out across Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Sunday morning to record the number of winter bird species in the city as part of the annual ‘Delhi Winter Bird Count’.Over 150 birders in 20 teams went to birding hot spots such as Sultanpur, Mangar Bani, Bhondsi, Sanjay Van and the Yamuna floodplains, to record rare sightings, including those of the Eurasian griffon vulture, great bittern, Marshall’s iora and the white-bellied drongo.Birders said all sightings made from the count this year will be compiled over the coming week, and the results are expected in three-four days. Birder Kanwar B Singh, who led one of the teams to Bhondsi and the Najafgarh jheel, said the region from Chandu-Budhera wetlands up to neighbouring Najafgarh canal is an important birding habitat. “The key sightings included greylag goose, northern pintail, common pochard, northern shoveler, gadwall and Eurasian coot... among the rare sightings was a great bittern, a bird not commonly found in the region. Among the raptors, the greater spotted eagle, imperial eagle, osprey, hen harrier, marsh harrier and the booted eagle are interesting sightings,” said Singh, adding that teams set out across the Yamuna floodplains from Wazirabad to Okhla; wetlands in Noida and Greater Noida like Surajpur and Dhanauri; the Aravalli belt of Mangar and Bhondsi; parks like Sanjay Van and the Sultanpur sanctuary; and wetlands in Jhajjar.Pankaj Gupta, another birder who took part in the count, said all the sightings are recorded on the e-Bird platform. “If we doubt a relatively rare sighting, we try to submit multiple shots so that birders can discuss among themselves and identify the bird.” he said.Jaswinder Waraich, who headed out to the Sultanpur national park and its outskirts, said most migratory birds have arrived in fairly decent numbers so far this year. “The great crested grebe, hen harrier, imperial eagle and water pipit were some of the rarer sightings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/annual-winter-bird-survey-150-birders-record-sightings-across-capital-101638124581739.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Key skills: Typewriter finds its place despite digital onslaught||New Delhi: It is Friday afternoon and inside a small, dimly lit room in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar, a group of young men and women are hunched over old Remington typewriters, practising touch typing--- the skill of fast typing without looking at keys. The only sound one can hear inside is the clickety clack, and the ding as the ribbon reaches its one end and starts on the other.Their instructor, Ashok Ahuja, is teaching a new batch of students how to position their fingers correctly on the middle line of the keys and apply the right pressure. Ahuja, whose family has been running Ashoka Typing College for the past four decades, says while business dwindled over the years, he still has many students wanting to be trained only on the manual typewriters.“They believe that typewriting can be best learnt on typewriters, and not on computer keyboards. There is a finger for each key and you tend to forget that while typing on a flat computer keyboard, and consequently your speed and accuracy suffers,” says Ahuja whose institute offers 45-days to 3- months typewriting courses comprising what he calls well-structured lessons for ₹500 a month.Delhi has many other typewriting institutes, where hundreds of aspirants for various government jobs requiring a typing speed test are trained on old Remingtons and Godrej typewriters, even as laptops and touch screens hold sway. Several southern states such as Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, which still allow typewriting tests on manual typewriters for various government positions, have thousands of typing training institutes. Many of them get their machines from dealers in Delhi, which restore and sell old typewriters.Ahuja says manual typewriters are perfect for learning the art and science of touch typewriting, and his students could not agree more.“On the flat keyboard of a computer, it is difficult to learn the movement of the fingers on the keys. Once you have learnt it on the manual typewriters, typing on a computer keyboard is child’s play. But learning to type on manual typewriters is like learning to play a musical instrument. It is hard work,” says Manisha Meena, a constable in Delhi police who is aspiring for a typist’s job in the Delhi high court as she tries to type, “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog”— a beginner’s typing sentence that contains all the alphabets in the English language.“ When I started two days ago, my fingers pained and I thought of not returning to the class ever. But now I love this Remington,” says Meena.Sitting next to her in the class is Anjali Rawat, 24, who is in the institute to increase her speed and accuracy of typing. “My current speed is 25 words per minute, and I want to make it at least 40 words per minute, and I believe I can do so only on a manual typewriter. Unlike a computer, a manual typewriter allows you to be focused, and you think twice before you type a word,” says Rawat.The Ashoka Typing College was started by Ahuja’s father and it had over 200 students in the 1990s. Today, the institute has about 40 students. “Before the pandemic, a lot of parents sent their small children to learn typing on manual typewriters during their summer vacation,” says Ahuja.Until the 1990s, Delhi had over 500 typewriting and stenography institutes, the biggest of them being Pitman Shorthand College in Karol Bagh, which had over 150 students working on typewriters at any given time. In fact, Delhi even had a federation of typewriting and stenographers institutes.Rajesh Palta, who runs Universal Typewriter Company at Asaf Ali Road in central Delhi, says they supply old, restored typewriters to institutes across the country. “A lot of these institutes bought old computers from us. We bought old typewriters from various government departments at auctions. Even today we supply about 30 old restored typewriters every month to typing institutes across the country. Most of our orders come from south India,” Palta says. The company was set up in 1937 by Palta’s father.Asaf Ali Road and the area around it used to be the hub of typewriter dealers. Many of them such as Allied Type Writers, Shimla Typewriters, Punjab Type Writers, Associated Typewriters, International Typewriters, have shut shop in the last fifteen years.The shelves of Palta’s shop have several restored vintage typewriters of brands such as Remington, Godrej, Smith Corona, Halda, Olympia, and Hermes. Outside, half a dozen typewriters are ready to be shipped to a typewriting training institute in Tamil Nadu.Palta, who has a vast knowledge of the history of typewriters, says that Remington was the first foreign company to assemble typewriters in India in 1950, and Godrej and Boyce, was the first Indian company to make a typewriter in 1955. In the late 1980s, India produced about 200,000 typewriters a year. Godrej, which once advertised its typewriter as a durable machine that “makes a good secretary a great one”, stopped producing typewriters in 2009.Palta gets nostalgic as he talks about the social and economic history of typewriters, which he says were instrumental in bringing women to the workforce. “ In the 1960s, thousands of women found employment as typists in cities. Those were the days when people made a beeline at typewriting institutes to learn typing. Many considered the skill of typing a key to success in life,” says Palta.Rajesh Gupta, 69, who runs one of the city’s oldest typewriting training institutes in East Of Kailash, still gets many such students. The institute was started by his father in 1955 at Panchkuian Road, and later shifted to Karol Bagh and then in the 1970s to its current location. Known as Rajesh Gupta Shorthand Institute, today it is one of the most sought-after stenography and typewriting training Institutes in the city, where nine typewriters stay busy throughout the day.“A lot of my students are those who cannot afford a computer, but then there are also lawyers, doctors and other professionals who believe that good typing speed is a key skill for their personal and professional growth. They want to learn it on a manual typewriter,” says Gupta.So what is the most important lesson he gives to his wards? “I focus a lot on typing ergonomics. I tell them to keep their posture straight and fingers should be vertical as they press the keys. There is a direct relationship between your posture and the mistakes you make while typing,” says Gupta, who charges ₹1,000 a month. One of his students Sweta Dogra, 27, says though she has a computer at home, she chose to learn typing on a typewriter. “Since there is no word processor or autocorrect on a typewriter, I have drastically improved my spellings by typing on a manual typewriter. Besides, there is no greater joy than seeing a hard copy being produced instantly as you write on a typewriter,” she says.SK Bansal who runs Anand Type Shorthand & Key Punching College, in Karol Bagh, which has over 50 typing students, agrees with Dogra’s assessment. “Computers can make you intellectually lazy thanks to auto-correction and cut and paste. But, no one wants to use correction fluid on a page typed on a manual typewriter, which exercises both your fingers and mind,” says Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/key-skills-typewriter-finds-its-place-despite-digital-onslaught-101638124463286.html
29-11-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad: Nigerian among four arrested for duping people online||The Faridabad police on Saturday arrested four persons, including a foreign national, for allegedly duping people after befriending them on social networking sites. Police said that the suspects were active in Delhi-NCR for the last one year and at least 50 cases were registered against the gang. The suspects were identified as Chinonso Roy Akata of Nigeria who lived in Delhi’s Tuglakabad, his woman friend Sangeeta, Ajay Kumar of Bihar who lived in Delhi’s Jasola on rent, and Atif Ali of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, also a resident of Delhi. Akata who is in his late thirties and Sangeeta were in a live-in relationship, police said.The suspects would befriend people on Facebook and then convince them to transfer money on the pretext of sending them costly gifts and foreign currency, said police, adding that all the suspects were arrested from Delhi.  According to the Faridabad police, they received a complaint from a 28-year-old engineer working at a private company in the city alleging that he was duped of ₹5.78 lakh by a woman who befriended him online in October. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), Faridabad, said that the Nigerian national with the help of a Delhi woman formed a gang and started duping people after creating fake profiles. “Akata and Sangeeta created fake social media profiles and befriended people by posing as women. They would tell the victims that they are visiting India along with their siblings to meet them to finalise the wedding. Later, the victims used to receive calls from a man posing as customs officer who would inform them that the duo are caught with valuables worth several lakhs of rupees and they have to pay custom duty for their release,” he said. Police said that Akata’s bank account had transactions worth ₹65 lakh in the past two months.Basant Kumar, station house officer of Faridabad cyber police station, said that the suspects used to tell victims that they would get precious gifts as a token of friendship or would propose them for marriage. The SHO said that Ajay would provide Sangeeta and Akata SIM cards to make calls to dupe people, and Ali opened accounts for them to transfer money. “All the suspects were taken on seven-day police remand on Sunday after being produced before the court,” he said. After an investigation by the cyber cell, an FIR was registered on Sunday at Faridabad cyber police station. “Our cyber police team put the suspects’ numbers on surveillance and their locations were traced, following which they were arrested,” said SHO Kumar. The passport of Akata who came to India on a student visa had expired six months ago and he was staying in India illegally, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-nigerian-among-four-arrested-for-duping-people-online-101638124342435.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Little breathing space: Third day of ‘severe’ air in Delhi||Delhi’s air remained in the “severe” category for a third consecutive day on Sunday, clocking an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 402 according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin as wind speeds remain low in the region. While agencies forecast some temporary respite over the next two days with an increase in wind speed that could help disperse pollutants in the region, wind speed will dip again from December 1, keeping the air quality largely between “very poor” and “severe” categories. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Delhi recorded an AQI reading of 402 (severe) on Saturday, and 406 (severe) on Friday. On Thursday, Delhi’s AQI had touched 400, on the brink of the “severe” category. Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said wind speeds had become “calm” over the last 72 hours, but are expected to pick up from Monday. “We were forecasting relief from November 29 onwards and wind speeds will remain good during the day both on November 29 and 30. However, conditions will once again become adverse from December 1, as wind speed and temperatures decrease, dropping the ventilation index too,” said Beig.According to Safar, only around 200 farm fires were recorded in the northern plains on Sunday, with the share of their contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 pegged at just 3%. PM 2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters of 2.5 microns. It is about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair.According to the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, a forecasting mechanism under the ministry of earth sciences, Delhi’s ventilation index is also expected to improve considerably in the next two days, allowing faster dispersal of pollutants. While it was 2,500 m2/s on Sunday, it could increase to 7,500 m2/s on Monday and 6,000 m2/s on Tuesday. “A ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s with average wind speeds less than 10km/hr is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants,” said EWS in its daily bulletin on Sunday.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, with mercury expected to remain around 10 degrees Celsius on Monday as well. While it could drop below the 10-degree mark on Tuesday, the influence from a western disturbance may take the minimum up to 12 degrees Celsius by Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 26.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, one degree above normal. Its maximum temperature is expected to hover between 26-27 degrees Celsius for the next three days, the IMD said.“Shallow fog with a visibility range of 500 to 1000 metres was reported in the early hours on Sunday. Shallow fog will continue across Delhi in the next few days,” said a Met official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/little-breathing-space-third-day-of-severe-air-in-delhi-101638124223162.html
29-11-2021||Delhi||Bids invited for international level stadium with capacity to seat 30k in Dwarka||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has invited bids to develop an international-level cricket and football stadium that can seat 30,000 spectators in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka.The integrated multi-sports facility will be built at a cost of ₹350-crore on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) basis -- a first for DDA -- and will be spread over 54 acres.
29-11-2021||Delhi||Stop flights from Omicron-affected countries: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM||Stating that India needs to do everything possible to prevent the Omicron variant of the coronavirus from entering India, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, urging him to stop incoming flights from countries affected by the new Covid-19 variant immediately.Also Read | Stricter airport SOPs, focus on hot spots in new Omicron planKejriwal said that any delay may prove harmful if any person affected by the new strain entered India. According to officials in the know of the matter, Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, who chairs the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), will hold a meeting on Monday to take a call on pre-emptive steps to ensure that the new variant of the virus does not spread across the national capital. Officials of the civil aviation ministry, health ministry and the Delhi government will be part of the DDMA meeting scheduled to discuss and take steps against the threat of the new variant.Also Read | States issue guidelines, review travel curbs over Omicron threatIn his letter to the Prime Minister, a copy of which HT has seen, Kejriwal wrote that India has fought a tough battle against Covid-19 for the last one-and-a-half years, and the country has recovered with great difficulty due to the selfless service of millions of Covid-19 warriors.“A number of countries, including the European Union, have suspended travel to the affected region (with new coronavirus variant). I urge you to stop flights from this region with immediate effect,” the letter said.The B 1.1.529 variant, dubbed Omicron and classified as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization on Friday, has sparked fears across the world that it could trigger new waves.Instances of the new variant have now been reported from Botswana, Hong Kong, South Africa, the UK, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, Israel, and the Netherlands, among others.A central government official on Sunday told HT that India will review its decision to allow regular overseas flights in light of the new variant, even as it may not impose a blanket ban.Mandatory test for flyers from ‘at risk’ countriesOfficials at the Delhi airport have ramped up measures to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, with a specific focus on inbound travellers from Europe as well as 10 other countries that have recorded cases of the variant of concern.According to new guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, it is mandatory for passengers flying in from Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel to get a fresh RT-PCR test at the airport, even if they have attached a Covid-19 vaccination certificate and negative test prior to boarding a flight.“For these three countries, which have been deemed as the most high-risk in terms of the new variant, flyers have to wait at the airport’s waiting room, located near the RT-PCR testing facility. Flyers from other countries have to submit their samples and fill in all their details before leaving, but if they test positive, the government will call and ask them to quarantine,” said an airport official.Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, the lab which carries out RT-PCR tests at the airport, said the facility is capable of handling 15,000 samples a day.“There is no significant surge in the number of passengers being tested, but there is coordination with the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics in Delhi, which is carrying out the genomic sequencing of the samples tested at the airport to trace whether it belongs to the mutated strain or not,” she said, adding that similar arrangements had been made for flyers from the three countries, as done earlier for passengers from the UK which had to be mandatorily be tested and were only allowed to leave post-results.“We need to ensure testing and vaccination do not remain interchangeable strategies, but rather both need to be implemented in tandem.” she added.The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said the November 26 guidelines for 11 countries and Europe, were strictly being enforced, with all other social-distancing and Covid-19 protocols still in place as earlier.DIAL said passengers are also not allowed to use seats with cross marks on them to ensure distancing, while masks will also still be required to be worn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-flights-from-omicron-affected-countries-delhi-cm-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-101638123501584.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||Several leaders join BJP ahead of UP polls||Ahead of the UP polls, several leaders from the opposition parties, including former ministers Jai Narayan Tiwari and Vijay Mishra, along with former lawmakers Madan Gautam and Kunwar Abhimanyu Pratap Singh, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Lucknow on Sunday. The UP polls are due early next year.The others who joined the party included state head of UP Dhobi Mahasabha Jagdev Kureel, former senior bureaucrat Ashok Kumar Singh, former general secretary of High Court Bar Association Ram Shiromani Shukla, former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate from Unnao Dharmendra Pandey and social activist Akhilesh Verma from Lakhimpur Kheri. The joining was done in the presence of former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpai, the head of the joining committee. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, a member of the joining committee, was also present on the occasion. The function was conducted by UP BJP vice president Daya Shankar Singh, another member of the joining committee. In the run-up to the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, the BJP has been inducting leaders from the opposition parties and party leaders said this would continue as the elections approach. Welcoming the leaders, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, “Many leaders from the opposition parties are now joining us as they are impressed by the kind of leadership we have and the party’s motto of nation first.”When asked if these leaders had been promised tickets, the state BJP chief said: “The BJP doesn’t offer tickets to anyone on the basis of caste or religion. The party leadership would take a call on the issue of who gets tickets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-two-former-ministers-others-join-bjp-101638123261810.html
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panel formed to look into demands of PSPCL employees’ kin||The state government has constituted a high-level committee to look into the demands of protesters sitting outside Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) head office in Patiala over their demand for jobs on compassionate grounds.The protesters under the banner of the PSEB Death Case Union are protesting for the past 70 days and have blocked all gates of the office for more than a week as a result of which officials and employees are working from other locations. On Sunday, senior officials of district administration met representatives of the protesting union and appealed them to lift their dharna for the convenience of the public.Additional deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh said the state government is holding discussions on their demands. “The government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of principal secretary (power) KAP Sinha,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-formed-to-look-into-demands-of-pspcl-employees-kin-101638122901042.html
29-11-2021||Lucknow||UPTET: Candidates express disappointment after paper leak||Hundreds of candidates who came to Lucknow to take the Uttar Pradesh Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) expressed disappointment over the question paper leak that led to cancellation of the exam.The UPTET candidates asked who would compensate them for the time spent in preparing for the exam.The candidates came not only from the adjoining districts but also from other states, including Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana. Candidates claimed that the exam had even started at some centres and was called off thereafter. They said at Krishna Convent in Jankipuram the message for cancellation of the exam reached at 11 am. Some candidates claimed they had solved 70% of the question paper.A number of UPTET candidates also said the question paper was relatively easy. Some of them had come from districts like Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur and Bahraich.Women candidates held the examination conducting body guilty for not ensuring safety of the question paper.“People with vested interests are involved in such practices. It causes inconvenience to the lakhs of candidates who are looking for jobs,” said Lily Gupta of Krishna Nagar. Shilu from Haryana said, “The government makes claims about a foolproof examination system. But the paper gets leaked each time, making a mockery of the exam.”Aradhana Singh of Jankipuram said there were reports about elaborate safety measure being taken for smooth conduct of the exam but the incident has exposed such claims.UPTET is conducted in two shifts for two papers: 1 and 2. UPTET Paper 1 is conducted for candidates who plan to become teachers of Classes 1-5. On the other hand, UPTET Paper 2 is for candidates who plan to become teachers of Classes 6-8.Candidates who wish to apply for both primary and upper primary schools need to appear in both papers. Both the UPTET papers are conducted on the same day in offline mode as pen-and-paper based tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-candidates-express-disappointment-after-paper-leak-101638119901536.html
29-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka advises educational institutions to switch to hybrid mode||The Karnataka government has advised educational institutions in the state to postpone all social and cultural activities and also postpone academic events like conferences and seminars as Covid-19 clusters arose in capital Bengaluru, Mysore and Dharwad.“All social and cultural events in educational institutions may be postponed for two months. Conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions, wherever possible, may be postponed. Alternatively, it could be conducted in hybrid mode i.e. with minimal physical attendance and with more persons attending through virtual mode,” the order said.The order came after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting with officials to discuss Covid-19 situation in Karnataka. In the order, educational institutions were instructed to ensure that all staff and students follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.The government also advised professionals from the field of healthcare and medical research to design conferences and seminars in a hybrid mode in a bid to encourage professionals from other fields to follow suit.Karnataka which saw new Covid-19 clusters imposed new restrictions in a bid to curb the spread of the disease. The state also asked people arriving from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra to produce a negative RT-PCR certificate, not older than 72 hours. This certificate is mandatory for all, even those who are fully vaccinated.Students who arrived from Kerala in the state within the past 15 days will also have to undergo a Covid-19 RT-PCR test. “Students arriving from Kerala State to Medical and Paramedical Colleges and other such educational institutions within Karnataka shall be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR test on the 7th day after their arrival,” the government said in a separate statement.Professionals, students and others who travel to Karnataka daily will undergo RT-PCR test once in 14 days and must be in possession of the negative report for entry into the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-advises-educational-institutions-to-switch-to-hybrid-mode-101638104559206.html
29-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 3-day expo throws light on innovation in pharma industry||A three-day pharma expo--CPhI & P-MEC India Expo-- was held at the India Exposition Mart in Greater Noida as part of the India Pharma Week (IPW) that is observed every year. This year, the theme for the IPW was to ‘reconnect and rebuild’ to achieve the next phase of growth in the Indian pharma domain, said organisers of the event. This was the 14th edition of the expo organised by Informa Markets and was held offline for the first time since the pandemic. CEOs of leading pharma and bio-pharma companies, 534 exhibitors from 16 countries and over 30,000 visitors attended the expo, which concluded on Friday. A roundtable conference, which was a closed-door strategic gathering of CEOs of leading pharma and bio-pharma companies, was held to discuss pharma developments in India. Focus on innovation, research and development in the pharmacy industry in light of the Covid pandemic was the highlight of the expo. Bodh Raj Sikri, co-chairperson, Federation of Pharma Entrepreneurs, said the pharma industry played an important role during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The industry--not just in India but across the globe--was entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring there are no drug shortages, due to which production was ramped in a short span of time. Since we also had to follow Covid guidelines, we could work with only half the manpower, which increased the cost of production. However, the industry didn’t bother about that and continued to churn out life saving drugs responsibly,” he said. Yogesh Mudras, managing director of Informa Markets, said after the Covid outbreak, pharma industry has shifted its focus to innovation, research and development to develop new drugs in the wake of unprecedented health emergencies.“As the focus has shifted to new technology and ideas, such an expo, where leaders of the pharma industry, manufacturers of medicines and researchers can gather, holds significance. All the stakeholders are able to establish connections and exchange ideas here that further enhance drug development, preparing us for any unprecedented health emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-3-day-expo-in-throws-light-on-innovation-in-pharma-industry-101637951508499.html
