30-11-2021||Mumbai||One tests positive, BMC prepares jumbo facilities, hotels to quarantine int’l passengers||Mumbai One Mumbai resident out of 100 that were traced by BMC with travel history to countries of concern within the past fortnight tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A senior BMC official confirmed that the person is asymptomatic and is currently at Seven Hills Hospital. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department said, “The S gene is not missing in this patient’s sample collected for RT-PCR test. This itself is an indicator that he is not positive for Omicron. However, to be absolutely certain, BMC has sent his sample for genome sequencing.”The person is a resident of the suburbs of Mumbai. BMC will now begin tracing contacts of this person, and those who came in immediate contact with him have already been quarantined.About 800 beds at the jumbo facility at Richardson and Cruddas at Byculla have now been exclusively reserved for quarantining international passengers who test positive for Covid-19, as BMC moved out existing Covid patients from this jumbo facility to Kasturba Hospital. This comes at a time when concerns are rising over the Omicron variant. While there are no cases of Omicron in Mumbai yet, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday tightened testing and screening guidelines for international passengers arriving in Mumbai from countries of concern.BMC also identified 15 to 20 two and three-star hotels around the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Tuesday, where international passengers can be quarantined and would want to pay for a facility instead of opting for a municipal jumbo facility. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department said, “We have located and spoken to 15-20 hotels, which were also on board with BMC during the first wave, to offer their rooms for quarantining those who opt to pay, in case international passengers test positive.”Currently, all passengers arriving from ‘countries of concern’ will mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test at the airport. If they test positive, they will have to be quarantined institutionally and their samples will be sent for genomic sequencing.In the last 15 days, 466 people arrived from ‘countries of concern’. Of these, 100 are from Mumbai and none of them is positive. From Wednesday, BMC is also launching a campaign to ensure all employees of private and public establishments are fully vaccinated. The municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal will write to all public establishments in Mumbai on Wednesday, directing them to allow only fully vaccinated employees to attend office and to ensure all social distancing norms and Covid-19 hygiene is followed on their premises.A senior civic official from BMC’s public health department said, “A letter signed by the municipal commissioner will be sent to all head of departments at public offices urging them to ensure all employees are fully vaccinated.” Ward officers have been asked to locate clusters of private establishments in their areas and send copies of this letter (signed by the municipal commissioner) to these establishments. BMC will offer help to private and public establishments to ensure all their employees are fully vaccinated, including arranging vaccination camps on the premises of these offices, if requested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-tests-positive-bmc-prepares-jumbo-facilities-hotels-to-quarantine-int-l-passengers-101638296855224.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||‘Society losing faith in system’: Delhi HC as it upholds murder conviction of two||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said that the society is losing faith in the system due to delinquency, which needs to be dealt with a stern hand, while upholding the conviction of two persons for murdering a 25-year-old man in 2012 at Tikri village.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani, while dismissingAkash and Yogesh’spleas against the life terms awarded to them for killing the man, a factory worker, said that safety is paramount for people to lead a good, dignified life and that even if one life is lost, it is an irreparable loss for the nation.“Before parting with the case, it would be trite to note that the present is an extremely unfortunate case where a young boy, who worked hard in order to make ends meet, tragically lost his life because of the menace created by the delinquents of society. Safety and security of the people is axiomatically paramount for them to lead a good, dignified life. Owing to delinquency, the society is losing faith in the system. The offenders, thus, need to be dealt with a stern hand. Even one life lost, is an irreparable loss we bear as a nation forever,” the bench said in a 16-page judgment.According to the prosecution, in July 2012, when the witness and the deceased, who worked at a factory, were returning from work, the accused approached them on a motorcycle and “forcibly searched” the pocket of the witness. They subsequently snatched and robbed the mobile phone of the victim, and one of them stabbed the victim in the thigh.The court said that there was “no shadow of a doubt” that the bodily injury inflicted by the appellants was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and was not caused accidentally but with intention and motive to rob the mobile phone of the deceased victim.Assailing the trial court judgment, convicting and sentencing them for murdering the victim, the appellants argued that there was no light at the spot of the incident and therefore the witness could not have possibly seen any of the alleged assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/society-losing-faith-in-system-delhi-hc-as-it-upholds-murder-conviction-of-two-101638296794204.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s pollution drops to 7-day low but stays in ‘very poor’ zone||Delhi’s air quality improved on Tuesday, but stayed in the ‘very poor’ category, as wind speeds ranged between 10-12 km/hr during the day, helping pollutants disperse.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 328 (very poor) on Tuesday, down from 389 on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin.Also Read | With list of dos and don’ts, Delhi pollution body asks residents to join air pollution fightWinds did, however, get significantly slower in the evening, falling to speeds of less than 3km/hour after 5.30pm. Weather officials forecast that calm conditions from Wednesday will see the pollution take a turn for the worse, adding that Delhi could receive light rain on Thursday, as a western disturbance approaches.“Local surface winds were relatively strong on Tuesday, leading to an improvement, but the AQI remained within the ‘very poor’ category. On December 1 and 2, winds are likely to be calm, reducing ventilation and leading to deterioration in the air quality,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a body under the ministry of earth sciences.Also Read | Cocktail of slow winds, stubble fires gives Delhi its worst November AQIGufran Beig, founder and project director at Safar said stubble burning season in northern states was at its end, with farm fires contributing to just 1% of Delhi’s PM2.5 (ultra-fine polluting particles) count on Tuesday.“Only 186 fires were recorded across the northern plains. Wind speeds will again drop from Wednesday and a low mixing layer will also influence pollution levels,” he said.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, while the maximum was 25.6 degrees, both around the normal mark for this time of the year.“Delhi is expected to see two western disturbances in the first week of December. While the first may bring light rain on December 2, the second could bright light rain on December 6,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, stating showers will drop the day-time temperature, but minimum temperature will rise during these two spells. He said while November tends to see one to two WDs each year, December generally sees two to three WDs. “We are already expected to see two of these WDs and this can help the air quality,” he added.According to the seven day forecast by the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, the air quality will remain in the ‘very poor’ category, unless Delhi receives significant rain.“From December 1, the air quality is likely to deteriorate but will remain in the ‘very poor’ category and PM 2.5 will be the prominent pollutant during this period,” said the daily bulletin released by the EWS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-pollution-drops-to-7-day-low-but-stays-in-very-poor-zone-101638296555870.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Mamata visits Siddhivinayak temple, meets Aaditya, Raut||Mumbai On a drive to develop a national footprint and occupy a prominent space at the opposition, West Bengal chief minister and All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) president Mamata Banerjee arrived in Mumbai on Tuesday to meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. The three-day visit will also see Banerjee meeting leading industrialists to invite them for the ‘Bengal Global Business Summit’ scheduled in April next year. After landing in Mumbai, Banerjee visited the Siddhivinayak Temple. She said she had prayed for the health of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating after spine surgery. She raised slogans hailing Maharashtra and Bengal and paid her respects at the memorial of Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble, who was killed in action while nabbing Pakistani terrorist Ajmal Kasab during the 26/11 terror attacks. Later, she met Maharashtra environment minister and CM Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. Speaking to reporters after the around half-an-hour meeting, Aaditya said that no political discussions had taken place between them. He added that Banerjee met them whenever she came to Mumbai. Banerjee had also called on Thackeray during her previous visit in 2017. He said that Banerjee wanted to meet Thackeray, but this could not materialise due to the bio-bubble restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Around two-three years ago when she had come to Mumbai, Uddhav saheb and I had come to meet her. Uddhav ji and Mamata didi share a good bond. Both the leaders have been in touch and have good coordination, whether it is in Covid or otherwise...It was a good meeting and we want to take the ties between them forward,” he said. He added that the West Bengal chief minister had conveyed her good wishes for the recovery of her Maharashtra counterpart. Though the Shiv Sena and AITMC parted ways with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) later, the two parties were part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee. NCP chief spokesperson and minister for minority development minister Nawab Malik said that Banerjee was scheduled to make a courtesy visit to Pawar on Wednesday at 3 pm. This will take place at Pawar’s residence ‘Silver Oak’ in South Mumbai. Pawar was planning to campaign for Banerjee during the assembly elections in Bengal earlier this year but had to drop his plans due to health issues. Incidentally, the Shiv Sena had planned to contest the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, but later decided against it and instead announced support to the AITMC. Banerjee will also meet industrialists on Wednesday at a five-star hotel in central Mumbai. She is also expected to participate in the wedding reception of Raut’s daughter. The outreach to both, the Shiv Sena and Pawar assumes significance in the wake of the AITMC’s national ambitions, its growing distance from the Congress and gradual poaching of Congress leaders from states like Goa and Haryana. The party has weaned into its fold former Goa chief minister and senior Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro and former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar. In Meghalaya, the Trinamool Congress walked away with 12 of the 17 MLAs to become the principal opposition party. The Congress is the third partner in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mamata-visits-siddhivinayak-temple-meets-aaditya-raut-101638296554555.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Rare bird spotted in Muzaffarnagar’s Haidarpur wetland||MEERUT Two local bird watchers spotted a rare bird in Haiderpur wetland in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday. Ashish Loya and Ashish Gujjar of Bijnor visit the Haiderpur wetland almost every day and on Saturday they saw a group of Smew (mergellus albellus) in the backwaters of the wetland. Loya said these birds were uncommon. They were small diving ducks and frequented lakes, reservoirs, and rivers. They were shy, often found alone or in small groups. The female had dark rusty brown head with big white throat and cheek patch. He said one female was spotted among a group of tufted ducks and claimed that these were some of the most beautiful ducks in the world and a rare winter visitor to India. In 2020, a female Smew was spotted at Gajoldoba Barrage in West Bengal and an individual was spotted in Jhajjar area of Haryana in 2014. He said not many records were available of its sightings. In Haiderpur wetland, the bird has been sighted for two years in a row. Last year, a male was spotted by Ashish Loya. The Haiderpur wetland is situated on the confluence of the Ganga and its tributary Solani river on the border of Muzaffarnagar and Bijnor and is home to rare and endangered bird species. It was developed with funds of Muzaffarnagar development authority and opened formally for tourists on November 14, 2019 by the then divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar. The bird species’ count in and around the wetland has risen from 172 to 322 in the past few years. The backwater wetland is spread over 18,000 acres and receives more than 50,000 migratory birds during winter. Recently, a large herd of over 150 swamp deer ( state animal of UP) was also spotted in Haiderpur wetland.. The wetland has some endangered species like smooth coated otters, swamp deer, fishing cat, gharial and is reported to have the biggest stock of greylag goose and bar-headed goose in one single wetland in India ( easily above 4,000 each). In 2020, a dolphin safari was also started below the barrage and tourists from nearby districts, bird watchers and photographers from all over India have begun to visit this rare natural jewel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rare-bird-spotted-in-muzaffarnagar-s-haidarpur-wetland-101638296434069.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Entry-level admissions to private schools in Delhi to begin on December 15||The registration process for admission to entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten and Class 1 — for the 2022-23 academic year in private schools across the national capital will begin from December 15, the Delhi government said on Tuesday. According to the circular issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE), the admission forms will be available from December 15 -- on the school’s website and campus -- and the last date for submission of forms is January 7.The school websites will upload the first list of selected candidates on February 4, a second list on February 21, and, if required, a final list will be announced on March 15. The admission process will conclude on March 31.Entry level admissions to government schools have already begun in the city, and are being conducted in phases.The DoE circular issued on Tuesday has made it mandatory for schools to charge only ₹25 for the application form and have made it optional for parents to purchase the school prospectus.According to the circular, DoE has fixed an upper age limit of 4, 5, and 6, as of March 31, 2022, for admission in nursery, kindergarten and Class 1, respectively. The minimum age for admission in these classes is 3, 4, and 5 years as of March 31, 2022, respectively. In line with previous years, age relaxation of up to 30 days for admission in the minimum and upper age limit for these classes can be granted by the head of school, for which parents can submit a physical application.As per the circular, private schools have also been given autonomy to decide their criteria for admission, and upload them on the DoE website by December 14. The circular also warns them against including several criteria abolished by the Delhi government in 2016, including parents’ education, profession, income, food habits, and written or oral interviews of both students and parents. Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said that the schedule had been announced well within time. She said application forms will be available both on the school website and on campus. “The process is quite long and no new changes seem to have been introduced this year. It’s good that the process has been initiated earlier this time. Last time, it was delayed because of the pandemic,” said Acharya. She said that schools will need to take extra efforts to familiarise children with the school environment after nursery since many parents did not enrol children into playschool or other preparatory classes amid the pandemic.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the Action Committee of Unaided Schools, said that the timely announcement of the admission schedule will help bring the academic cycle back on track. “Private schools are all set to initiate the process as per the schedule and we pray for the normal start of the next session. We hope that admission continues as per the schedule,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/entrylevel-admissions-to-private-schools-in-delhi-to-begin-on-december-15-101638296314174.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Stubble fire count in north India at five-year high, Nasa satellite data shows||With the farm fire season in the northern plains at its close, this year is set to be the worst year in terms of the total number of fires recorded in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in the last five years, National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (Nasa) satellite data analysed by an environmental think-tank shows. The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), which looked at stubble burning data from the three states between October 1 and November 28 using the VIIRS satellite, found that there have been 90,984 fires cumulatively in the three states this year, almost 7,000 more than last year’s 84,525. To be sure, a bulk of these fires came from Punjab.Punjab has so far recorded 76,427 fires, up from last year’s figure of 74,183 and behind only 2016 (86,379). Similarly, Haryana’s count of 9,869 fires is significantly up from last year’s count of 5,335 fires, but behind 2016 (13,130).The count is the highest in the three states since 2016, which saw 108,298 fires, CEEW data showed. In comparison, the figure was around 54,000 in 2019, showing the efforts put in to curb stubble burning have largely not yielded any major results. Data shows while the count in Uttar Pradesh this year (4,695) has largely been consistent with last year’s figure (4,701), Punjab and Haryana have fared worse than they did in 2020. Adeel Khan, research analyst at CEEW says Firozpur in Punjab saw the most stubble fires across the state, recording around 9,000 blazes, followed by Sangrur, Bathinda and Moga. “Ludhiana [in Punjab] also reported a marked rise in farm fires this year, touching 5,400, compared to around 3,900 in last year. In Haryana, Fatehabad reported a maximum of around 2,000 fires followed by Kaithal, Jind and Karnal districts. Shahjahanpur in UP reported a maximum of 470 farm fires, compared to 170 last year,” said Khan.Experts however also said that crop stubble fires are almost over in Punjab and Haryana, Uttar Pradesh was still recording a decent number. Data for November 28, released by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), showed that Punjab logged five fires, Haryana nine, while UP recorded 241.“We are still recording over 100 fires per day in Madhya Pradesh and over 200 fires per day in Uttar Pradesh,” Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR) at Nasa said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the impact from stubble burning in Delhi’s air is also now negligible, with stubble burning contributing at an average of 4% to Delhi’s air between November 23 and 27. During this period, local sources contributed 78 percent to the total pollution load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-fire-count-in-north-india-at-five-year-high-nasa-satellite-data-shows-101638296253515.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Four of family found dead in outer Delhi, cops suspect murder-suicide||Four members of a family — husband, wife and their two minor children— were found dead at their rented home in outer Delhi’s Samaypur Badli on Tuesday morning, police said, adding that prima facie, it appeared to be a case of murder-suicide, the motive for which is still being investigated. Police suspect that the 45-year-old man poisoned his 38-year-old wife and their children — a five-year-old son and three-year-old daughter— before killing himself by hanging. Police said they are yet to find evidence of an outsider’s role in the deaths, but further investigation is on in the case and they were also trying to ascertain the type of poison that may have been used and also the motive. “We reached the spot after receiving a call from the dead woman’s sister, who lives in a different portion of the same house. A man was found hanging from the ceiling fan, while the others were found lying unconscious. The girl had frothed from her nostrils, but there were no injury marks on her body. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of poisoning and suicide, subject to verification by a post-mortem examination,” said Brijendra Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police, (outer-north).Police said the bodies have been sent for an autopsy and they are awaiting the reports.The woman’s mother said she too got a call from her elder daughter alerting her that her second daughter’s husband was seen hanging from the ceiling fan, while the others were lying unconscious on the bed and sofa. “I was shocked to get that call. I still did not believe her and rushed to their house. When I saw police around the corner, my worst fears were confirmed,” said the mother. She told HT that her second daughter had left her marriage for another man, who lives in Mundka, two months ago. “He had promised her a luxurious life and she was lured by those promises. But she started everyone at home and so she returned on Saturday. I was there with her and my son-in-law all through Saturday to help them sort out their differences. Towards the end of the day, they agreed to start afresh. Little did I suspect that something like this would happen,” she said. The woman’s elder sister lives in a separate portion of the house in Samaypur Badli with her husband and three sons. “ My niece used to come visit me every morning around 8am, but on Tuesday, when she didn’t turn up till 8.45am, I went knocking on their door. Troubled by the lack of response, I asked my younger son to open the lock from inside after breaking open a window near the door. He did as I asked and was shocked to see my brother-in-law hanging from the ceiling fan and the others lying unconscious,” said the sister. She said she immediately informed the police and relatives. “We rushed to the spot. It looks like the man murdered the three members of his family and hanged himself. Their neighbours said that the family lived in the rented house for the past 20 years. Relatives said the family was financially distressed as well,” said a police officer associated with the case, asking not to be namedAll four of them were rushed to the hospital where they were declared brought dead, police said. Teams from the forensics unit and crime branch also inspected the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-of-family-found-dead-in-outer-delhi-cops-suspect-murdersuicide-101638296134807.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Two men die of electrocution at home in Delhi’s Rohini||Two brothers in their twenties died of electrocution at their Rohini home on Tuesday afternoon, according to Delhi Police. Police said they received information about the incident around 3pm from their family member in Begampur.An ambulance rushed the two men to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival. Police also informed the area discom and got the current switched off as a precaution. The Rohini police district’s deputy commissioner of police Pranav Tayal said police identified the deceased men as Govind, 25, and Devind, 22. Police said Govind’s brother-in-law rushed in to save the two men but could not as he too received a “minor shock”. Police said preliminary investigation revealed that Govind and Devind lived in a rented house in Jain Nagar area of Begampur. The two, who are originally from Madhya Pradesh, worked as carpenters. Police suspect one of them touched a live wire hanging from a window or the balcony and the other one tried to save him.“Till now, we are yet to find any evidence of foul play,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-die-of-electrocution-at-home-in-delhi-s-rohini-101638296014074.html
30-11-2021||Other||Over 200 intruders including 93 Bangladeshis detained in 2021, says BSF in Tripura||A total of 208 intruders, including 115 Indian and 93 Bangladeshi nationals, were detained this year while crossing the international border (IB) in different parts of Tripura, said a senior Border Security Force (BSF) official on Tuesday. The figures of illegal infiltration are higher this year compared to the 131 intruders recorded in the previous year. Of the 131 intruders, 85 were Indians and 46 were Bangladeshi nationals. “The number of intruders have increased this year. Among them, many are smugglers, criminals. The BSF jawans are maintaining vigil across the border,” BSF inspector general Sushanta Kumar Nath told the media persons at BSF headquarters in Agartala. In 2019, a total of 236 people were apprehended for illegally crossing the international border. The northeastern state shares 856 kilometre-long border with Bangladesh of which 67 kilometres are yet to be fenced. Most of these unfenced border patches are scheduled to have single row fencing as there are people living within 150 yards of the border in many of these places. Composite fencing and composite border outposts are being erected on the eastern side of Tripura.“We hope all work will be over by the end of 2022”, IG Nath said.The Border Security Forces (BSF) seized different contraband items worth Rs. 12.94 crores from Tripura’s border this year of which 60,812 are Yaba tablets, 12,067 kilograms processed cannabis, 30,070 bottles of contraband cough syrup, 8,351 liquor bottles. They also seized 2,288 cattle worth Rs. 2.34 crores. During the period, they also destroyed cannabis saplings worth Rs. 7.76 crore jointly with state police and the forest department. Total 25 NLFT cadres surrendered before the BSF in the past five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-200-intruders-including-93-bangladeshis-detained-in-2021-says-bsf-in-tripura-101638295895319.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||With list of dos and don’ts, Delhi pollution body asks residents to join air pollution fight||To encourage public participation in the Capital’s fight against pollution, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has released a list of dos and don’ts that people can follow according to the air quality of the city at any point of time.A senior DPCC official said that the list, which uses pollution level benchmarks similar to the scales of the Supreme Court-mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), is an advisory for the public.Also Read | Delhi’s pollution drops to 7-day low but stays in ‘very poor’ zone“Delhi usually sees high pollution levels during the winter season and over the last few days, the air quality in the city has slipped into the ‘severe’ zone on several days. While the government agencies have a set action plan to follow when the air quality crosses a certain stage, if the public also participates in the government’s fight against pollution, we will be able to get better results,” said the official.The list suggests that when the pollution levels in Delhi reaches the ‘moderate to poor’ category, which means the PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) are between 6µg/m3 and 120µg/m3, or the PM 10 levels (coarse particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) are in the range 101-350µg/m3, people should adopt measures such as keeping engines of their vehicles properly tuned, maintain proper air pressure in tyres, keeping the pollution under control certificates of their vehicles updated, turning the ignition of their vehicles off when waiting at red lights and not dump garbage in open spaces.Also Read | Cocktail of slow winds, stubble fires gives Delhi its worst November AQISimilarly, when the pollution levels are in the ‘very poor’ category — PM 2.5 levels in the range 121-250µg/m3 or PM 10 levels in the range 351-430µg/m3 — the general public is advised to minimise the use of private vehicles and use public transport, ensure that the air filters of their vehicles are regularly replaced and avoid undertaking local construction activities such as repairs and extensions.The list says that when the pollution level hits ‘severe’ (PM 2.5 levels greater than 250µg/m3 or PM 10 levels greater than 430µg/m3) the general public is advised to carpool, walk, cycle and use public transport; work from home if possible; not use wood or coal for heating; owners of independent houses are advised to provide heaters to security guards to prevent open burning; and combine errands to reduce trips.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi resident welfare association joint front, said that the residents group is also conducting awareness drives to encourage residents to use public transportation and refrain from garbage dumping and burning.“It’s good that the government is creating awareness but they should also promote action. They should conduct meetings with the RWA where they should listen to what we have to say and we will also take note of their side. A document must be prepared based on this discussion and action must be initiated based on this,” Vohra said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, also said that public participation is essential to ensure that pollution control measures yield maximum benefits.“Government agencies and public will have to work together to control pollution. The begining of this will have to be creating awareness so that people know the impacts of air pollution. Compared to a decade ago, public knowledge has increased, now there is a conversation around pollution and its impacts. The more we involve citizens, the more successful would the preventive measures be,” Roychowdhury said.November has been the cruellest month this year in Delhi, with 11 days showing severely polluted air on the monitors of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the highest since detailed records have been maintained by the pollution watchdog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-list-of-dos-and-don-ts-delhi-pollution-body-asks-residents-to-join-air-pollution-fight-101638295714481.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Over 7,000 North MCD teachers stop online classes to protest salary delay||Over 7,000 teachers from different municipal schools under the jurisdiction of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (north MCD), stopped teaching online classes from Tuesday, affecting at least 150,000 students. The agitating teachers alleged that they did not receive salaries for the last three months.Kuldeep Singh Khatri, the president of Shikshak Nyay Manch – the umbrella teachers’ association of all municipal corporations – said that despite repeated requests, teachers did not receive their salaries after August this year. “The municipal authorities have not given us annual Diwali bonuses since 2018 either. They have not implemented a hike of 17% in dearness and housing allowances, despite clearance from the Central government five months ago. This is the reason that many of our senior teachers joined Delhi government schools, after taking trained graduate teacher (TGT) promotions,” he said.He also alleged that municipal authorities have not yet given any ex-gratia compensation to families of the teachers who lost their lives due to Covid-19. “Why would we spend ₹500 every month on Internet, if the MCD doesn’t give us an allowance for that? Besides, teachers of the north MCD schools have been deployed to District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), for which they are compelled to travel even 100 kilometres a day. Due to pending salary dues, many teachers are unable to pay EMIs for loans they took,” he said.Khatri also said that if all the pending dues of the teachers are not cleared within seven days, the teachers will begin an indefinite strike outside the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state headquarters.When contacted, Alok Verma, the chairman of the education committee in the north MCD, also said that the teachers have not been paid in the last three months or given their hiked allowances since July. “But, what can we do if the Delhi government does not release the funds? I respect the feelings of the teachers, but the ball is in the Delhi government’s court. We need additional funds of at least ₹80 crore to meet the teachers’ demand. They should knock the doors of the chief minister and his deputy for it,” he said.The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to request for comment.He also said that because of the protest, the education of at least 150,000 students will be hampered. “We are trying to resolve the teachers’ issues. But, we can’t guarantee for any timeline,” Verma said.Sanjay Goel, the north MCD commissioner, was not available for comments, despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-over-7-000-north-mcd-teachers-stop-online-classes-to-protest-salary-delay-101638295594302.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s one wrong decision led to revocation of Article 370: Omar||The National Conference vice-president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, on Tuesday attributed the revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A to People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s ‘one wrong decision’ which he said was to form a coalition government with the BJP. Quoting the famous couplet at a public rally in Chatroo of Doda district, Omar said, “They (BJP) took advantage of our weakness and I knew it. That’s why I offered my hand of friendship to late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed sahib. Soon after 2014 assembly elections, I had cautioned him that the path being chosen by him (exploring possibilities of forming a coalition government with the BJP) would be very dangerous for J&K and we may not survive by this decision of yours.” “I told Mufti Sahib I had no greed for power. I had already served for six years as a CM and I told him that we don’t want any of our MLAs and MLCs as ministers in the government. I told him that we will support you unconditionally, but please don’t bring them (BJP) here (in J&K),” he added. “He (Mufti Mohammad Sayeed), however, might have had some compulsions at that time. Lamhon ne khata ki, sadiyon ne saza paayi...Now, we do not know for how long we will be punished for that one wrong decision because not even a single promise made to us post-revocation of Article 370 has been fulfilled,” Omar said. “If the NC had come to power in the last assembly elections, there would have been no revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A, no land allotted under the Roshni Act would have been taken back and no jobs would have gone to the outsiders,” he said. In 2014 assembly elections, the PDP had won 28 seats, the BJP got 25 seats, the NC 15 and the Congress 12. On February 27, 2015, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sealed an alliance between the PDP and the BJP to form a coalition government. On March 1, 2015, Sayeed took oath as the chief minister of the PDP-BJP combine in a ceremony that was attended by PM Modi and other leaders. However, on June 19, 2018, the three-year-old coalition government collapsed after the BJP pulled out of the alliance over worsening security scenario and bitter political feuds between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mufti-mohammad-sayeed-s-one-wrong-decision-led-to-revocation-of-article-370-omar-101638295414433.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hurriyat Conference objects to ‘acquisition’ of land for CRPF camp||The Hurriyat Conference on Monday expressed serious concern on the land of south Kashmir village being ‘taken away’ for setting up a CRPF camp. Villagers of Oukhoo had been protesting against the same for the past few days. “The authorities are set to take over a large tract of agricultural land in Oukhoo village of Pulwama for setting up a big CRPF establishment. This has put their livelihood in great peril which the locals are resenting,” Hurriyat Conference spokesperson said in a statement. The Hurriyat Conference asked the authorities to revoke the “anti people order”. Meanwhile, Pulwama DC refuted that private land is being taken away and said fake narrative is being circulated. “The administration has categorically refuted the fake narrative being circulated in the social media that land of people is being handed over to the CRPF. The public is informed that land in question at Oukhoo is exclusively state land and is not proprietary land of any individual. The Pulwama administration is committed towards people’s welfare and anyone with a counter agenda of spreading baseless rumors and propaganda will be aptly dealt with,” Pulwama DC Baseer ul Haq Choudhary said in a tweet. Soldier kills himself in RambanAn armyman allegedly shot himself dead with his service rifle in Banihal area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district on Tuesday, officials said. Sepoy Tejpal Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, was on sentry duty when he fired upon himself inside a camp at Chamalwas late this afternoon, the officials said. They said the soldier was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to injuries. After autopsy and completion of other formalities, the body was handed over to the unit of the deceased for the last rites, the officials said.HP: Camps for distribution of artificial limbs start todayTo provide aids and appliances to the needy persons with disabilities, special artificial limbs fitment camps will be held from December 1 to December 16 in various parts of Himachal, a spokesperson of empowerment of SCs, OBCs, minorities and specially abled department said on Tuesday. The camps are being organised with the help of Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti in Shimla, Mandi and Kangra. The camps would be organised at Hotel Frihill in Shimla from 9am to 3pm on December 1, 2 and 3. In Kangra, it will be held at Yatri Sadan on December 7, 8 and 9. The camp would also be organised at Vyas Sadan in Mandi on December 13, 14 and 15. The spokesperson said no medical certificate is required from the beneficiaries for procuring these artificial limbs and those interested can contact district welfare officers concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurriyat-conference-objects-to-acquisition-of-land-for-crpf-camp-101638294874071.html
30-11-2021||Dehradun||My decision, says Dhami on scrapping Char Dham law. Then makes a promise||DEHRADUN: Hours after going public with his plan to scrap the controversial Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday asserted that it was “solely his decision” taken in the interest of the state.“I want to tell you that I am the mukhya sevak (chief servant) to the people of Uttarakhand and this was my decision in the state’s welfare considering the time and situation,” chief minister Dhami said at a Press conference on Tuesday evening.Dhami also credited the committee led by former Rajya Sabha member Manohar Kant Dhyani which studied the law with “working hard for the last three months”.The panel submitted its report two days ago. “The report was then analysed by the cabinet sub-committee led by the minister of religious affairs Satpal Maharaj which submitted its report to me yesterday before I took the final decision based on all the aspects related to the welfare of the state.”The law, which was introduced by the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in 2019, allowed the board to act as the highest governing body, to look after the shrines while framing policies and sanctioning expenditure. Priests of the Char Dhams — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — opposed the board, saying it was an infringement upon their traditional rights over the Himalayan temples.Dhami, who was elevated as the chief minister in July this year after his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat was told by the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership to step down, also promised that the government will consult people associated with the Char Dham shrines and other temples on “how to improve the facilities for pilgrims” before taking any steps.One of the prime criticism of Trivendra Singh Rawat for the law was that the state government did not engage the priests when the Char Dham law was first enacted in 2019.Rawat elaborated. “This will be done by involving all the parties including our priest and saint community in the process. All required steps will be taken to develop our Devbhoomi into the spiritual capital of the world”.Dhami’s decision to scrap the law comes just as the deadline set for him by the priests was to end on Tuesday. In an effort to pressurise the government to withdraw the law, the priests had announced their decision to field candidates in the upcoming state assembly polls in 2022. On Saturday, they held a Janakrosh rally in Dehradun under the umbrella of their body named - Char Dham Teerth Purohit Haq Haqooqdhari Mahapanchayat while observing November 27 as a black day because it was the same date last year when the BJP government had passed the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/my-decision-says-dhami-on-scrapping-char-dham-law-then-makes-a-promise-101638294456340.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron threat: Admn reopens 500-bed DRDO hospital in Jammu||The J&K health authorities have reopened 500-bed DRDO hospital at Bhagwati Nagar in Jammu to deal with any contingency arising due to the new Covid variant Omicron. “The hospital has been made operational as a precautionary measure. More staff will be sought as per requirement,” said a health official. The administration has also directed to conduct universal RTPCR testing of foreign travellers besides mandatory quarantine and genome sequencing of samples of patients who test positive. Chief secretary Dr Arun Kumar Mehta said, “We are fully prepared to deal with any contingency. We never had any problem of beds or oxygen shortage. We will handle this situation as well.” Amid the threat of new variant, Dr Mehta also chaired a meeting of the Covid task force to review the public health response. He has asked the divisional and district administrations to ensure universal testing of all foreign travellers to Jammu and Kashmir in the light of the emergence of new Covid variant Omicron. He underscored the need to adhere to the laid down guidelines and test all the incoming foreign travellers through international flights. As per the guidelines, the travellers testing negative will be sent for home quarantine of seven days and retested on the eighth day, whereas, the Covid positive patients will be sent to institutional quarantine centres for 15 days and their samples will be sent for genome sequencing at ICMR-designated testing laboratories. It was emphasised that de-boarding from international flights must comply with the Covid appropriate behaviour and set protocols and a special Covid helpdesk is forthwith established at the Srinagar airport. Secretary, disaster management, has also been directed to monitor the situation and submit a daily report for timely intervention of the agency concerned. The health department has been stressed upon to establish genome sequencing facilities at government medical colleges in Srinagar and Jammu to fast-track the detection of Omicron variant and other mutations. Moreover, district administrations of Budgam and Srinagar were asked to establish government quarantine centres and further explore arrangements for paid quarantine facilities for institutional quarantine to deal with any emergent situation. The health and medical education department was asked to conduct equipment audit to establish functionality of Covid-related infrastructure, including dedicated hospitals, ventilators, oxygen supported beds, and oxygen plants. The department was directed to ensure readiness of manpower and machinery to cater to a peak caseload of at least 7,500 patients per day and firm up the inventory of oxygen supply and medicines. Deputy commissioners were instructed to enhance testing rate and contact tracing for positive patients to trace infection trajectory and establish micro-containment zones at an early stage. Additionally, they were directed to reduce the daily reported cases through strict enforcement of Covid-apt behaviour, SoPs and protocols, and micro-containment zones. Additional chief secretary Vivek Bhardwaj said, “We have already instituted strict surveillance systems at the airports and other entry points including Lakhanpur—the gateway to J&K.” “RTPCR test has been made mandatory for all foreign travellers coming to J&K. Besides, we have also identified places for institutional quarantine and all incoming passengers with a history of travel to affected countries would be put under surveillance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-threat-admn-reopens-500-bed-drdo-hospital-in-jammu-101638294455215.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet approves draft electric vehicle policy||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, in a meeting held on Tuesday here, approved the draft electric vehicle policy. The policy aims to promote sustainable transport system for making Himachal a global hub for electric mobility development and manufacturing of electric vehicles besides creating public and private charging infrastructure for such vehicles, along with providing subsidy and incentives to the electric vehicle manufacturing industries. The meeting was presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The cabinet also decided to launch ‘Swaran Jayanti Paramparagat Beej Suraksha Avam Sawardhan Yojana’ to promote traditional crops. The scheme is aimed at doubling farmers’ income as well as nutritional security by enhancing production and productivity of traditional crops.The cabinet approved to fill up 100 posts of clerks in place of junior office assistant (IT) in the state’s secretariat on contractual basis. Also, 50 more posts of clerks will be filled up against the anticipated vacancy during 2022 and 2023. The cabinet gave its approval for procurement, supply and distribution of school bags under ‘Atal School Vardi Yojana’ to the students of class 1, 3, 6 and 9 on the basis of e-tender by Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation for the year 2020-21. This would benefit about three lakh students studying in different government schools of the state, on which an amount of ₹9 crore would be spent. The cabinet also gave nod to provide relaxation on fees for the year 2020-21 to toll units keeping in view the representations received from toll lessees, especially from those who have got the toll unit renewed on full value with the request that the substantial abatement/relaxation in toll fees as well as payment of monthly instalments be given to them as inward traffic commodities were allowed to enter the state. The cabinet decided to extend the contract of Tata Consultancy Services with effect from May 1, 2021, to April 30, 2022, at a cost of ₹ 6.18 crore with the condition that the excise department would place a mechanism to take over the running of services internally. It also gave its nod to introduce the Sardar Patel University, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh (Establishment and Regulation) Bill, 2021 in Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly for setting up of new state university at Mandi. It decided to open new sub-tehsil at Rey in Fatehpur of Kangra district while approval was given to upgrade sub-tehsil Junga to tehsil in Shimla district. A new sub-tehsil at Jari in Bhuntar of Kullu district will also be opened.It also gave its nod to reduce stamp duty to the nominal amount of ₹10 on the hypothecation agreements for loan sanctioned to the street vendors under PM SVANidhi scheme applicable in urban areas.It gave its approval to create new Jal Shakti subdivisions at Shawad in Ani of Kullu and Churag in Mandi, Killar and Sach in Pangi of Chamba and a new Jal Shakti section at (Sawa Mahu) Mahunag in Karsog. It gave its ex post facto approval of letter of award along with approval for four years in respect of letter of award to Medswan Foundation, including the signing of tripartite agreement for operation and maintenance of 108 and 102 ambulance services.The cabinet accorded approval to transfer 766 sq mt of land at Motitibba for an air force station in Dalhousie in favour of the Indian Air Force free of cost by charging ₹1 as token value of land in relaxation of rule as a special case. The cabinet decided to provide land in Dharamshala in favour of Kangra Arts Promotion Society on lease amount of ₹13,158 annually, which would increase by 5% after every five years for 99 years. The Cabinet gave its nod to upgrade Mehatpur police post in Una district to police station along with creation of 19 posts of different categories.It also decided to upgrade deputy superintendent of police office at Nurpur in Kangra district to additional superintendent of police office.The cabinet decided to fill 12 posts of junior engineer (civil) in the forest department as well. Ten posts of sheep shearer in Himachal Pradesh Wool Federation will also be filled. The cabinet decided to fill five posts of dean and two posts of directors in Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University Palampur. HIGHLIGHTSScheme for promotion and conservation of traditional crops150 posts of clerks to be filled in HP secretariatSardar Patel University, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh (Establishment and Regulation) Bill, 2021, to be introduced in Himachal Pradesh legislative assemblyNew sub-tehsils at Rey in Kangra and Jari in Kullu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cabinet-approves-draft-electric-vehicle-policy-101638294097171.html
30-11-2021||Jaipur||‘Back to Work’ scheme for Rajasthan women who left jobs due to family circumstances||Rajasthan government has come up with a ‘Back to Work’ scheme for women who sometimes have to quit their jobs due to family circumstances. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot approved the scheme on Tuesday through which regular or work from home job opportunities will be provided to such women with the help of the private sector. Gehlot had announced the launch of the scheme during the discussion on the Finance and Appropriation Bill for the Budget 2021-22. The scheme targets to provide jobs to 15,000 women with the help of the private sector in the next three years. Priority will be given to widows, women who have been abandoned, divorced and victims of violence, states a release from the CM’s office. Women who will not be able to go to the workplace will be provided with the opportunity to work from home. The facility of a single-window system will be developed to provide employment opportunities to women willing to join employment through the Directorate of Women’s Empowerment and CSR organization. Apart from this, skill training will also be given through Rajasthan knowledge Corporation Limited (RKCL). For the implementation of the scheme as a pilot project, applications will be taken from the target category of women on the portal. Based on the category wise database of registered women on the portal, the work of connecting them with employment in the private sector will be done by a CSR organization. If needed, a training facility for re-skilling/up-skilling will also be provided to the targeted category of women registered on the portal by the CSR organization. A monitoring committee will be constituted for effective implementation of the scheme, the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/back-to-work-scheme-for-rajasthan-women-who-left-jobs-due-to-family-circumstances-101638294094985.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP will roll out six yatras to assess public mood in UP||LUCKNOW The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to take out six yatras across all the 403 assembly segments of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP), chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced at a party meeting on Tuesday. The party had also taken out these yatras prior the 2017 UP polls, said top leaders who attended the meeting. The party’s UP election panel head and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and information & broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, a key member of the panel, were present on the occasion. “At that time, the yatra was to expose the previous government. But this yatra would be to tell the cadres about our achievements and to seek people’s blessings,” said Adityanath at the UP BJP headquarters in Lucknow. BJP’s Dalit MLC Vidya Sagar Sonkar will coordinate these yatras that will possibly start from six places from each of the six organisational regions and culminate in Lucknow with a rally by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Leaders who would lead these yatras are yet to be decided but the motorised chariots would have cutouts of Modi and Yogi for sure. Prominent leaders will make speeches at various yatra stopovers,” a party leader said. Two deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also present during the brainstorming session. A section of BJP leaders believes they could contest these elections along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The RSS would be involved in galvanizing the masses for these yatras, which would also focus on 78 seats BJP or allies failed to win in 2017 UP polls, as well as areas and constituencies where the ruling party might be feeling the heat of anti-incumbency more. “These yatras, which would precede the ticket distribution, would also help the party assess the public mood,” a party leader said. To beat anti-incumbency, the BJP is expected to change sitting lawmakers in various assembly segments and these journeys would help the “party generate local feedback about the lawmaker and their likely replacements.” The yatras would be supplemented with innovative catch lines. “Like in Baghpat Anurag Thakur ji coined one such line. He said: “Pehle Samajwadi Party dange karatey thaiy, bhajapa dangal karati hai (earlier there were riots in SP time, now wrestling matches are held in BJP days).” A BJP leader pointed out that the yatras would specially focus on opposition bastions like Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi as well as Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. “The nitty gritties are yet to be finalised but our allies could also be part of these yatras,” said a BJP leader. SHAH TO ADDRESS BOOTH PRESIDENTS Union home minister Amit Shah would address booth presidents in Saharanpur on December 2. BJP chief JP Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh have already addressed similar booth meetings in Gorakhpur, Kanpur (where Nadda addressed), Sitapur and Jaunpur (where Rajnath addressed), said party leaders.“We welcome these yatras as they would help the BJP and its leaders realise the people’s sentiments, rampant corruption at the local level and growing resentment against price rise among other things. We hope these yatras travel through regions like Hathras, Lakhimpur Kheri where unspeakable atrocities were heaped on the poor, dalits and farmers by the ruling party and its insensitive leaders. We hope these yatras travel through those ghats where people, after not getting even wood for last rites, started burying the dead in sand during the Covid surge,” said Zishan Haider, Congress spokesman. “These days all political parties are resorting to yatras. Through these journeys, they are able to connect with the masses better and possibly all gather crucial feedback ahead of the polls. BJP is no stranger to yatras,” said Prof Manuka Khanna of political science department of Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-will-roll-out-six-yatras-to-assess-public-mood-in-up-101638292534219.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze meeting: Cops in Vaze’s escort team guilty of negligence||A Mumbai police team inquiring into the Param Bir Singh-Sachin Vaze meeting on Monday concluded that the latter’s escort team is guilty of dereliction of duty. On Tuesday, Mumbai police sent a report to their Navi Mumbai counterparts seeking action on the four escort team personnel. A sub-inspector and three police constables of Navi Mumbai police had escorted Sachin Vaze – prime accused in Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case and industrialist Mukesh Ambani security scare case – to the Justice KU Chandiwal commission’s courtroom in Fort, south Mumbai. Vaze is currently lodged at Taloja jail, Navi Mumbai. A person aware of the report said the four police personnel were present in the room where Singh and Vaze privately met and talked for an hour. “The policemen knew Vaze faces serious charges,” the source said. “They should not have allowed anyone to speak to him without the permission of NIA court. This is serious dereliction of duty.” On Monday, Mumbai police had appointed Pandurang Shinde, assistant commissioner of police, Colaba division, to begin an inquiry soon after it came to light that Singh and Vaze had met each other for an hour in the Old Secretariat Building where the Chandiwal Commission sits. Shinde recorded statements of the escort team and other witnesses, and submitted a report to deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Dr Hari Balaji N, who sent it to Navi Mumbai Police commissionerate for action. Sources said the DCP’s report suggested that disciplinary action be taken against the guilty cops. Both Dr Hari and ACP Shinde did not respond to phone calls. Navi Mumbai police commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh said, “We have received a report from Mumbai police. I have ordered the DCP (headquarters) to inquire further. Based on the findings, we will take appropriate action.” The Chandiwal commission was constituted in March 2021 to look into the allegations of corruption levelled by Singh against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Both Vaze and Singh are witnesses in the commission’s inquiry.The meeting between Singh and Vaze reportedly lasted for an hour, people present in the building said. Deshmukh’s lawyers opposed it and raised the issue before the commission. The judge asked Vaze to stay in the room where commission’s proceedings are going on and to not speak to anyone else.Leading criminal lawyer Majeed Memon said, “It’s absolutely illegal. No one can meet an accused who is in judicial custody without the permission of the concerned court. Moreover, in this case, the person (Singh) who met the accused is himself an accused in several cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-and-sachin-vaze-meeting-cops-in-vaze-s-escort-team-guilty-of-negligence-101638292414510.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Hindu Studies course is an opportunity to know India better: Officiating BHU VC||Officiating vice chancellor of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) prof VK Shukla said the postgraduate course on Hindu Studies, which is going to start in the university (BHU) from this academic session, is an opportunity for the world to know India better.“There is a lot to learn about Indian culture and tradition. But it is a matter of concern that there is lack of correct information about it. In such a situation, the Hindu Studies course being started by Banaras Hindu University (BHU) is a step towards right direction, which will make the younger generation aware of their roots,” said prof Shukla.He was speaking after releasing e-newsletter of the BHU prepared by university’s information and public relations office. Prof Shukla said, “In the coming days, BHU has planned to start a certificate course especially for foreigners and Indians living abroad as a large number of people from abroad are showing interest in this course. There can be no better institution than the capital of Sarvvidya BHU established by Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya ji to run the Hindu studies course.”Speaking about the first ever e-newsletter of the varsity that has been uploaded on BHU website and social media accounts of the university, he said during the Corona pandemic when physical activities had come to a complete standstill online-virtual mode opened up new avenues.“The newsletter presents a glimpse of the development journey, achievements, new initiatives and activities of the BHU during the last two years. Articles on Smart Classroom, National Education Policy, BHU-Bionest and Hindu Studies Curriculum have also been included in this newsletter,” he said. BHU public relation officer Dr Rajesh Singh said this e-newsletter also gives a brief account of how the university successfully operated works and classes in online mode and introduced many new initiatives keeping in mind the interest of the students.Assistant public relations officer Chandrashekhar, assistant professor Dr. Dhirendra Rai, research students Harshit Shyam Jaiswal, Chandrali Mukherjee, assistant professor Dr. Amit Kumar Upadhyay among others were present in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hindu-studies-course-is-an-opportunity-to-know-india-better-officiating-bhu-vc-101638291754062.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Over 4 crore people fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra||More than four crore individuals have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, the state's additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas said on Tuesday. A total of 11.42 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state so far, with as many as 74,287,818 people receiving at least one dose of the vaccine, the official added.We now have more than 4 cr individuals in Maharashtra who have been fully vaccinated. Till now State administered 11.42 cr doses of covid vaccine & 7,42,87,818 persons have received at least one dose of the vaccine: Dr Pradeep Vyas, Addl Chief Secy (Health), Maharashtra#COVID19Amid rising global alarm over omicron, a new variant of the coronavirus said to be highly contagious and capable of frequent mutations, infectious diseases experts and public health professionals insist that rampant vaccination is key in containing the pandemic. Even though lockdowns can prove to be a temporary measure in pausing the virus in its tracks, new mutant variations are likely to re-emerge from under-vaccinated areas and in populations with unaddressed co-morbidities.In such a scenario, only a high rate of immunisation can help a certain population reach ‘herd immunity’, since the percentage of the population that needs to be vaccinated to achieve such a stage keeps changing all the time due to the extent of the virus' impacts.The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across India has now crossed 124 crore. Over 72 lakh doses were administered on Tuesday till 7pm, and according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the daily vaccination tally is expected to increase further with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late in the night.As for Maharashtra, the state on Tuesday reported 678 fresh Covid-19 infections and 35 related fatalities, 14 more compared to the previous day. With the latest additions, Maharashtra's tally of infections rose to 66,35,658 and the Covid-19 death toll to 1,40,997, according to the official bulletin issued daily by the state's health department. A total of 942 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recoveries in Maharashtra to 64,83,435 at the recovery rate of 97.71%, leaving the state with 7,555 active cases.In Maharashtra, 10 districts and seven municipal corporations did not report any new Covid-19 cases. Of the eight regions in the state, Mumbai reported the highest number of cases at 298, followed by 232 from the Pune region, and 80 from the Nashik region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-4-crore-people-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-maharashtra-101638288438674.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Omicron threat: Maintain strict vigil, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said there was a need to maintain a strict vigil in the state amid growing concern over Omicron variant of coronavirus. The chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting here on Tuesday. “Every person coming to state from foreign countries should be tested arrangements for which should be made at bus stations, railway stations and airports,” he said. He said the Union government’s Covid guidelines should be strictly implemented. “There should be arrangements for genome sequencing at KGMU Lucknow, SGPGI, Lucknow and also at Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Meerut,” Yogi said. He said Covid-19 situation was under control in Uttar Pradesh due to effective implementation of trace, test and treat and vaccination policy of the state government. The CM asked for consistent strengthening of arrangements made for protection against coronavirus and said all Covid protocols must be followed strictly. There was no Covid cases in Aligarh, Amethi, Amroha, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Badaun, Baghpat, Balrampur, Basti, Bhadohi, Bijnor, Bulandshahar, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, Etah, Etawah, Firozabad, Ghazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hardoi, Hathras, Jhansi, Kasganj, Kaushambi, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mahoba, Mainpuri, Mau, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Rampur, Shahjahanpur, Shamli, Shravasti, Sonebhadra and Varanasi. He said 80.75 million Covid tests have been conducted so far in the state of which 126055 were conducted in the past 24 hours. He said 161.14 million Covid vaccine doses have been administered up to now and 524 oxygen plants have become active. The CM also said paddy procurement should be made with complete transparency at the procurement centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-threat-maintain-strict-vigil-says-yogi-101638291159145.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||6 international passengers from 'at-risk' countries tested Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra||Amid omicron scare that has rattled the health community across the country, the Maharashtra public health department on Tuesday informed that six passengers who arrived from South Africa or other ‘high-risk’ countries have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Officials of the health department, familiar with the development, were quoted by news agency ANI in a report that one each in Mumbai corporation, Kalyan-Dombivali corporation, Mira-Bhayandar corporation and Pune, and two from Nigeria in Pimpri-Chinchwad corporation have tested positive.“All these passengers, though tested Covid-19 positive, are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic,” the health department further told ANI.All the samples have been sent for genomic sequencing and their contact tracing exercise is underway.Earlier in the day, it was reported that a person who returned to Pune from Zambia in November has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The emergence of the new variant of Covid-19 omicron has triggered widespread concern as multiple mutations have been found in the strain that can possibly dampen all the efforts to slow down the ongoing pandemic.In the meantime, the Pune administration has postponed the reopening of schools for classes 1 to 7 till December 15 amid the omicron scare.Omicron (B.1.1.529) was first reported in Botswana on November 11 this year and appeared on November 14 in South Africa. It has been declared a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organisation (WHO). A number of countries, including South Africa, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, have reported cases concerning the new strain.Meanwhile, on Monday, two people who returned from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru. As a precautionary measure, the authorities have made seven days quarantine compulsory for all international passengers and intensified testing and sanitisation at Bengaluru airport amid increasing concern over omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-international-passengers-from-at-risk-countries-tested-covid-19-positive-in-maharashtra-101638290271562.html
30-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government introduces 'Back To Work' scheme for women||Rajasthan government has introduced a 'Back To Work' scheme for women who have had to quit their jobs due to family reasons.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday approved the scheme through which regular or work-from-home job opportunities will be provided to such women with the help of the private sector.A target to provide 15,000 jobs in three years has been fixed. Priority will be given to widows, divorcees and victims of violence, an official statement said.Those women who will not be able to do regular office job will be provided work-from-home job opportunities.A single window system will be developed by the women empowerment directorate to help them in job facilitation.Skill and training will also be provided to women to make them employable.Gehlot also approved financial sanction of ₹8461.76 crore for 27 water supply projects under Jal Jeevan Mission scheme.A revised sum of ₹485.72 crore for two other water supply projects was also alloted. In total, ₹8947.48 crore were sanctioned, an official statement said.In this, ₹5234.84 crore is state share whereas Rs.3712.64 crore is provided by the Centre.With the approval, the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission will accelerate. The 29 projects for which sanction has been given include three projects for which announcement was made in the year 2020-21 and 14 projects are for the year 2021-22.The remaining 12 are other projects, the statement said.The aim is to provide drinking water through tap to 7.73 lakh households of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-government-introduces-back-to-work-scheme-for-women-101638289364692.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||BDD Chawl cylinder blast: 4 of a family injured||Four persons, including a four-month-old, were injured in a blaze, caused due to a cylinder blast, at BDD Chawl, Worli, on Tuesday morning. All four injured belong to one family and are undergoing treatment at BYL Nair Hospital, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department. Of the injured, Anand Puri, 27, and Mangesh Puri, who is 4-month-old, are in critical condition. Vidya Puri, 25, and Vishnu Puri, 5, are stable, BMC said in a statement.The fire was reported at 7am on Tuesday and has been extinguished. It was categorised as a level 1 (minor) fire by the Mumbai Fire Brigade. On Tuesday afternoon, a video was circulated on social media, alleging a delay in treatment at Nair hospital. BMC said in a statement that an internal inquiry by the Nair hospital has been set up in the matter. If any persons from the administration are found to be guilty, then action will be taken against these individuals. “One of the victims, Anand Puri, has 93% burns and is in a very critical condition. He has been intubated, but his prognosis has been poor,” said Dr Sarika Chapane, assistant medical officer at BYL Nair Hospital. “The four-month-old baby also has 60% burns. The other two victims — Vidya Puri, 25, and Vishnu Puri, 5, have 40% and 20% burns and are currently in a stable condition,” she said. On Tuesday afternoon, a video was circulated on social media with allegations of delay in treatment at Nair hospital, of the four people injured in this fire. In response to these allegations, BMC said in a statement that an internal inquiry by the Nair hospital has been set up in the matter. If any persons from the administration are found to be guilty, then action will be taken against these individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bdd-chawl-cylinder-blast-4-of-a-family-injured-101638289893957.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid cases dropped in November, but deaths spiked||Struggling to recover from the effects of Covid-19, Himachal Pradesh recorded a 38% decline in new cases in November as compared to October. However, the fatalities rose by 16%.Figures by the health department reveal that the state logged 3,089 fresh cases in November against 5,045 the month before.On the other hand, the number of deaths rose from 78 to 93 in the same period.Kangra remains worst hitMost populous in the hilly state, Kangra district was the worst affected in November, recording 1,091 new infections. But, these were 40% lower than 1,842 cases in October.In terms of fatalities, it saw a 17% spike between the two months, with the figure rising from 40 to 47.With 15 deaths, Hamirpur was second in the list, followed by Mandi where 13 patients died in November. Nine people died in Una, seven in Shimla, and one each in Bilaspur and Kinnaur.Among the 12 districts, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur recorded an increase in the new infections. A total of 350 people tested positive in Shimla, compared to 319 in October. Similarly, Solan logged 144 new cases, while the number was 100 last month. Sirmaur saw the figure climbing from three to nine.The tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti recorded only seven new cases during this period.102 fresh cases todayThe state recorded 102 fresh infections on Tuesday. Mandi led with 32 cases, followed by Kangra with 30, Hamirpur with 16, Shimla with 10, Una six, Bilaspur five and Solan three. One person succumbed to the virus in Bilaspur.With this, the state’s total case tally has reached 2,27,195, while 3,831 people have died. Kangra district is leading with 51,909 cases, followed by Mandi (31,915) and Shimla (27,899).Currently, the state’s daily positivity rate is 1.7%, while the recovery rate is nearly 98%. After 2,22,513 recoveries, 834 are still battling the infection.State nears 100% vaccination targetHaving inoculated 51 lakh people with the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, Himachal Pradesh is nearing the target of 100% second dose coverage. As per 2011 census, over 55 lakh people are eligible for the vaccine in the state.Earlier, the state had set a deadline of November 30 to achieve the target, but later extended it to December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-cases-dropped-in-november-but-deaths-spiked-101638287973770.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||3Ms – Yamunanagar police’s formula for showing drug addicts the right path||Adopting a “3M” (medication, meditation and mainstreaming) model, the Yamunanagar police and members of the civil society have been working on a war footing to help drug addicts here kick the habit.Explaining the initiative, termed “Sahi Raah – From Hell to Heaven, a journey towards better self”, superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal said other than physically identifying addicts, the department launched a helpline (8818-001-383) last month. “We have already received more than 250 calls from addicts, their families and locals with tip-offs about peddlers. Of them, roughly 150 have been identified, registered and are undergoing medication under our supervision, depending on their condition. Eight are admitted in hospitals for treatment. A batch, comprising seven men of different age groups, also attended an indoor camp in Kalesar,” the police official said. Following the camp, conducted by Art of Living at Kalesar’s Kaleshwar Mahadev Math on the foothills of Shivalik Hills, a valedictory celebration was organised by Ambala Range IG Bharti Arora.Daily review meetings and biweekly open house sessions for the affected families are also being organised at the mini-secretariat, while the SP also plans to host dinners for a couple of recovered addicts and their families. The initiative also aims to eradicate drug peddling through legal and social approaches.Frequent drug recoveries by the police and door-to-door visits to dissuade peddlers were putting societal pressure on many, said Surender Madaan, one of the members of Hamida Peace Committee that has been roped in for the initiative. “We have been going from house to house, warning sellers against destroying the lives of youths. Similar drives will be initiated in other areas that are also infamous for peddlers,” Madaan said.SP Goyal said a 50-year-old woman, Nasreen, from old Hamida was nabbed with 60gm of smack last week. Her son-in-law, Allah Banda, 28, was also arrested with 100gm smack last year, in one of the biggest drug recoveries in the district.He said such measures will organically develop awareness among addicts and peddlers regarding the devastating effects of drugs.“Most of the drugs supplied here are from Uttar Pradesh. The addicts are mostly from the lower-middle class and a lot of them are auto-rickshaw drivers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3ms-yamunanagar-police-s-formula-for-showing-drug-addicts-the-right-path-101638287496645.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay faculty overjoyed at alumnus taking over as Twitter CEO||Twitter’s announcement of their new CEO, 37-year-old Parag Agrawal gave cause for celebration to IIT-Bombay, his alma mater.A student of the 2005 batch of the computer science department, Agrawal was one of the top students of his batch, say senior faculty members.“A silver medalist from the computer science department, Parag was the typical topper -extremely organised and very well-behaved. He had all the qualities in him to excel in academics,” said professor Supratim Biswas, from the department of computer science and engineering (CSE), IIT-B.The CSE department at IIT-B is one of the most sought after courses and some of the top JEE scorers have always managed to bag these seats. “To top among such high-scoring individuals requires a special calibre and Parag had it in him,” added Biswas. “It is no wonder that at such a young age he has earned this huge distinction.”He obtained his B.Tech degree from IIT-B in 2005 and PhD in computer science from Stanford University in 2011. Prior to joining Twitter, Agrawal did research in large-scale data management with collaborators at Microsoft Research, Yahoo Research, and AT&T Labs.On the alumni page of the institute, Parag has shared some memories from his time at IIT. “(I remember) working with friends to build shared storage and streaming services over the hostel intranet and spending time near Vihar Lake behind Hostel 4 with close friends,” he has been quoted.“The significance of a university is often judged by the collective achievements of its alumni and the glory that they bring to their alma mater. Parag Agrawal is one such alumnus that IITB is proud of. The education and the ambience that IIT-B provided to Parag, not too long ago, helped in bringing out the best in him. With hard work and dedication, Parag has reached the top. Our congratulations to him and we hope that IIT-B can continue to produce such achievers,” said Subhashis Chaudhuri, director of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-faculty-overjoyed-at-alumnus-taking-over-as-twitter-ceo-101638287433972.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||5 arrested from Rajasthan for looting jewellery shop in Ghansoli||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has nabbed five persons from Rajasthan for robbing a jewellery shop in broad daylight in Ghansoli on November 14. They fled to Rajasthan with gold worth ₹1.40Cr and 3.3kg of silver jewellery.Police have recovered ₹1Cr worth gold jewellery and 2kg of silver from them.The accused were arrested from Rajsamand district in Rajasthan and brought to Navi Mumbai on Monday. The five had forcefully entered Ambika Jewellers between 1.15pm and 2pm by threatening the shop owners and employees with weapons and locked them inside the bathroom with tape.Navi Mumbai police commissioner, Bipin Kumar Singh, said, “This daylight loot in the city was a rare and sensational case. The accused had planned well in advance. The two masterminds resided in Ghansoli temporarily and did a recce of the shop. With the help of CCTV cameras, call data records and other technology, we managed to trace the accused who had fled to Rajasthan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-arrested-from-rajasthan-for-looting-jewellery-shop-in-ghansoli-101638287314015.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai bank sues Nawab Malik for ₹1,000 crore||A defamation suit claiming damages worth ₹1,000 crore has been filed in the Bombay high court by Mumbai District Cooperative Bank against NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik and seven others for putting up defamatory banners and hoardings relating to an investigation by the economic offences wing of Mumbai Police. The suit has claimed that the content of the hoardings which were put up from July 1 to 4 at prominent locations in the city tarnished the reputation of the bank as it attributed alleged irregularities of ₹123 crore to the bank.The suit has stated that though the police had concluded that the allegations of irregularities were based on mistaken facts and closed the case, the hoardings gave the opposite message and hence the bank was aggrieved. The HC has asked Malik and others to respond to the suit within six weeks.According to the suit, hoardings had been put up at Ballard Pier and Ghatkopar (W) on July 1 showcasing a news article which stated that no investigation had been conducted on an alleged complaint of financial irregularities of the bank in 2015. The hoarding also had the photographs of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and leader of opposition in the Maharashtra legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, who is also current chairman of Mumbai Bank, shown behind bars.The suit has claimed that the hoardings had been up till July 4 during which the contents were seen by a large number of people and thus tarnished the image of the bank.When the defamation suit came up for hearing before the single judge bench of justice Riyaz Chagla on Monday, advocate Akhilesh Chaubey informed the bench that an interim application had been filed in the suit seeking an injunction against Malik and others from tarnishing the image of the bank and its office bearers and also to issue a public apology for the putting up the hoardings.The bank in its suit has stated that the hoardings were put up at the instance of Malik and others.The defamation suit has sought directions to Malik to issue an unconditional apology to the bank, to retract the allegations against the bank made through the hoardings and to pay ₹1,000 crore as damages to the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bank-sues-nawab-malik-for-1-000-crore-101638287014454.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Assembly clears changes to pvt varsities act, tech services commission||The Bihar assembly on Tuesday passed two bills, seeking amendments to the Bihar Private Universities Act and the Bihar Technical Services Commission Act, with a voice vote.Officials said the amendments would encourage private firms to set up the institution of higher education, as they would be allowed to take extra time to raise the necessary infrastructure. Education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary tabled the bill to amend the private universities act, while energy minister Bijendra Yadav introduced the technical services commission bill. Once the private varsities act is amended, entrepreneurs in education sectors would be given more time to complete the necessary infrastructure for the institute. “After the amendments are notified, the state government could offer extra time to build and set up the private universities. Earlier, such institutions are given two plus two years to set up the infrastructure. But after the amendments, such institution could be given extra time, as deemed by the state government, to complete the infrastructure,” said a senior officer familiar with the issue. The amendments to the technical services commission act envisaged raising the age bar for its members to 70 years. Currently, members are eligible to be working up to 62 years of their age. Additionally, senior most member of the commission would be allowed to exercise the power of the chairman in case he/she stays away from office for a long period due to leave or any other reasons. Senior leaders of opposition, including Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma, had proposed changes in the amendments, but it was rejected by speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/assembly-clears-changes-to-pvt-varsities-act-tech-services-commission-101638286957481.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Srijan scam: CBI arrests 3 women from Bhagalpur||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Tuesday arrested three persons as part of its ongoing probe into Srijan scam in Bihar, said officials familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. The scam involved illegal transfer and parking of government funds from its treasuries to various bank accounts of Srijan Mahila Samiti, a non-governmental organisation. The CBI had lodged an FIR against 10 persons on charges of embezzlement of ₹1.69 crore and filed a charge sheet on December 31, 2020, against them. The special court of CBI issued summons against them on February 11, 2021, but all the accused failed to appear before the court. Later, the CBI designated court issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against the accused on August 12. Three of the eight accused, identified as Aparna Verma, Rajrani Verman (both arrested from Sabour) and Jasima Khatoon (nab from Sahebganj), were arrested from separate locations in Bhagalpur district while all the accused were produced before the Court of Special Judge, CBI cases in Patna on Tuesday. All three women were said to be active members in Srijan management and close to its founder Manorama Devi. BJP leader Bipin Sharma, his wife Ruby Kumari, alleged mastermind of the scam, PK Ghosh, and Purnendu Kumar said to be the chartered accountant in the Srijan have already been arrested and forwarded to judicial custody by a separate team of CBI and ED. The NGO has been accused of working in cahoots with bankers and treasury officials to illegally divert government funds into its accounts. The scam, estimated at over ₹2400 crore, first came to light when a government cheque presented to a Bhagalpur bank bounced due to insufficient funds on August 3, 2017. The CBI had taken over the investigation of this case after a central government notification on August 21, 2017, following a request by the Bihar government. Sources in the CBI said that the probe agency is leaving no stone unturned to nab Srijan secretary Priya Ranjan and adviser Amit Kumar and expelled RLSP’s functionary Dipak Verma and businessmen N V Raju (owner of the biggest electronic showroom in Bhagalpur) and Kishore Ghosh, who runs two shopping malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/srijan-scam-cbi-arrests-3-women-from-bhagalpur-101638286956351.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Teachers’ appointment to be done after panchayat polls: Bihar education minister||The recruitment of 1.25 lakh teachers for classes 1 to 12 in Bihar will be initiated once the panchayat polls are over in mid-December, state’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary informed the assembly on Tuesday. Replying to a short notice question raised by RJD’s Bhai Virendra, the minister said the recruitment process had to be suspended because permission for the same was denied due to the ongoing panchayat polls. “We had sought approval from the State Election Commission (SEC) to carry out the recruitment, but it was refused. We will do it after the panchayat polls are over,” he said. The minister said the process for recruitment of around 8,000 teachers for physical education and health would be also done within a month. In another reply, the education minister informed the house that government had asked Comptroller and Auditor General of India ( CAG) to inquire into the alleged financial irregularities by some universities in purchase of books. “We have asked the CAG to look into the matter of financial impropriety in purchase of books by some universities. We are also asking the Chancellor to order a probe,” he said. Social welfare minister Madan Sahni, while replying to a short notice question, informed the house the government had given financial assistance of ₹1500 per month till October to 54 such children who had lost both their parents during the Covid pandemic and would also be providing financial assistance to such children who have lost one of the parents in the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/teachers-appointment-to-be-done-after-panchayat-polls-bihar-education-minister-101638286955219.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Unavailability of Gandhi Maidan forces organisers to cancel Patna book fair||The Patna Book Fair, which was scheduled to be held in Gandhi Maidan from December 3 till December 13 this year has been cancelled, informed convenors of the Centre for Readership Development (CRD). According to the convenors, an application had been submitted to the administration for permission in September to hold the event at the Gandhi Maidan, but there has been no response.“We had requested the administration for space at the Gandhi Maidan. But still, there has been no response to our request letter. We had to cancel the event as the ground was not available,” Amarendra Jha, secretary, CRD, said.Jha said that most of the leading publishers had insisted that they will only be part of the book fair if the event is held at Gandhi Maidan. “We had earlier tried to host the book fair at Patliputra ground in the city. Even in 2018, we hosted the event at Gyan Bhawan. But all these venues failed to match the charm of Gandhi Maidan,” he said.Amit Jha, another member of the organising committee, said that the event was planned considering the decrease in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Things seemed to be getting back to normal. So we planned book fair by the year-end,” Jha, said. But it is learnt that the Gandhi Maidan is not being allotted for any social or cultural event for several months due to Covid-19 pandemic, he added.The CRD secretary said that in case the administration accepts their request, the Patna Book Fair could be held in February 2022. “We can’t hold the event in January 2022. The ground will not be available due to the Republic Day function and its preparations,“ he said. Not just that, no leading publisher would be available in January as events like World Book Fair in Delhi and Kolkata Book Fair have already been planned at that time, he added.An official from the district administration, who did not want to be named, said that no social and cultural activities have been allowed at Gandhi Maidan ground since March 2020. “ No point requesting for permission to hold the book fair at the ground,” the official said.The Patna Book Fair is being held in the state capital since 1985 and in the over 30-year long journey, it’s been mostly held at the Gandhi Maidan. In 2020, the book fair was not held due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unavailability-of-gandhi-maidan-forces-organisers-to-cancel-patna-book-fair-101638286953888.html
30-11-2021||Other||Seven lose eye sight after cataract surgery in Muzaffarpur, fate of six others in dark||At least seven people have lost their eye sight and six others are being treated for severe infections allegedly caused after they underwent surgery for cataract at an eye hospital in Muzaffarpur on November 22, district health officials said.Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma said a four-member team formed to probe the matter which came to light after eyes of seven patients had to be removed owing to panophthalmitis (severe eye infection) after they underwent the cataract surgery at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital.“Eyes of four people were removed at the same hospital (Muzaffarpur Eye hospital) located in Juran Chhapra area of Muzaffarpur and of three others at Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital, Muzaffarpur (SKMCH),” said the civil surgeon.Six others are undergoing treatment at SKMCH, Sharma said. He refused to share the date of removal of eyes. Dr Sumit Kumar, assistant professor at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Bettiah, described panophthalmitis as a severe inflammation of all coats of the eyeball, including intra-ocular structures. “Such infections are quite grievous and likely to be caused among the patients afflicted with diabetes, HIV and low immunity. However, poor sterilisation of instruments used may well cause panophthalmitis after cataract surgery and the disease has all the potentiality to impair the eye sight,” said Dr Kumar. The matter came to light on Monday after victims’ family members approached the civil surgeon office, complaining about the doctors’ negligence at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital. HT spoke to some of the victims’ kin and learnt of a common thread in the tragedy.A resident of Muzaffarpur, Kaushaya Devi, in 70’s, suffered excruciating pain along with swelling and frequent water discharge from her left eye (operated) hours after she was discharged after cataract surgery at the Muzaffarpur hospital on November 22. “We took her to Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital and were told the need for immediate removal of the eye as it has gone post redemption and may affect the sight of other eye,” said Chandan Kumar, Kaushaya Devi’s grandson. Some others whose eyes had to be removed after cataract surgery are Savatri Devi (Muzaffarpur), Harendra Rajak (Vaishali), Meena Devi (Muzaffarpur) and Kaushalya Devi (Muzaffarpur). Jaitun Khatoon and Jumarati Miyan, residents of separate villages of Muzaffarpur district, complained of extreme pain. “I feel like losing sight completely,” said Jaitun Khatoon. Dr Subhash P, one of the four members of the probe team, said, “During preliminary investigation, it was found that as many as 65 patients underwent surgery at the hospital on November 22 itself. We have come across 13 cases in which either patients’ eyes have been removed or are undergoing treatment so far.” The management of Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital admitted all of them were operated there. “In the wake of the complaints from some patients after the operation, they were referred to other hospitals in Patna. In the meantime, we had to remove the eyes of four patients at our hospital itself,” Deepak Kumar, assistant manager, Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, said. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said a team has been constituted for probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-lose-eye-sight-after-cataract-surgery-in-muzaffarpur-fate-of-six-others-in-dark-101638286894907.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Empty liquor bottles on found in Bihar assembly premises, barbs fly||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar faced acute embarrassment on Tuesday following the recovery of empty bottles of liquor in legislature premises of the state where a total ban on liquor was imposed in April 2016.The bottles were found under a tree in the area earmarked as parking lot for two-wheelers, officials said. Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav raised the matter in the post lunch session of the state assembly, saying it was outrageous. Chief minister Nitish Kumar informed the house that he was not aware of recovery of liquor bottles on the premises of the state legislature and said a probe could be ordered on permission from Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to ascertain how the liquor bottles found their way inside the legislature premises and who all were involved. “We will ask the state police chief and chief secretary to carry a through inquiry,” he said. In response, Yadav said, “Please ensure that lower-level officials are not made scapegoats and the big fish do not go unpunished.” Sources said the chief minister held a meeting with director general of police S K Singhal and chief secretary Tripurari Sharan in the assembly in the afternoon. In the evening, the DGP told reporters that the place where empty bottles were recovered was not under CCTC coverage but all angles were being probed.Yadav accused the government of failing to implement the liquor ban. “This is outrageous. The spot is less than 100 metres away from the chief minister’s chamber. Only yesterday, the chief minister presided over a farce wherein NDA legislators took the pledge, inside the central hall here, against liquor consumption. Within 24 hours, liquor bottles have been found in the same premises,” the leader of opposition told reporters later outside the house. “Prohibition in Bihar is a total failure and administering oath not to drink liquor to people is all a sham.The government will not give a logical reply and dub the entire episode of recovery of liquor bottle in the assembly premises as a conspiracy by the opposition. The chief minister must resign as he is also the home minister,” Yadav said. Yadav’s party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and other opposition parties, including the Congress, have been critical of the state government, especially for the last one month over which the state has seen 40 alleged hooch deaths in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Muzaffarpur districts.Two MLAs exchange expletives in public The state assembly premises on Tuesday witnessed unsavoury scenes when RJD legislator Bhai Virendra and BJP’s Sanjay Sarougi indulged in an ugly spat,exchanging expletives in full view of media persons before the assembly sat for the day. Reports said the trouble started when Bhai Virendra passed a caustic comment against Sarougi, calling him a person having adulterated roots. The latter hit back, accusing Virendra of being corrupt. The spat soon turned ugly and both the legislators started hurling expletives before they were pacified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/empty-liquor-bottles-on-found-in-bihar-assembly-premises-barbs-fly-101638286893684.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Ex-corporator from Kalyan Dombivli arrested for threatening woman||Former Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) corporator, Sandeep Gaikar, who was booked in September for allegedly stalking and threatening to ruin the life of a woman if she refused his proposal, was finally arrested by Kalyan police.Gaikar’s anticipatory bail was rejected by the High Court, leading to the arrest.In September, Kalyan Bazarpeth police station registered a case of molestation against Gaikar. He surrendered himself on Monday night at Bazarpeth police station after the HC rejected his bail. He has been remanded to police custody till December 3.The complainant, a 34-year-old woman social worker, met ex-corporator Gaikar, 45, in 2014. Later, both of them went into a relationship. Gaikar lived with his wife and three children and was also insisting that the woman get married to him. Complainant’s lawyer, Kranti Rothe, said, “The woman refused marriage and broke all relationships with him. But she claimed that Gaikar allegedly forced her to marry. She claimed that he also threatened to ruin her by throwing acid and assaulted her at times. He also sent her lewd photographs on her social media account.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/excorporator-from-kalyan-dombivli-arrested-for-threatening-woman-101638286533514.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||State orders probe in use of official car by Param Bir Singh; suspension process underway, says minister||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that a probe has been ordered into the use of an official car by the former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh while appearing for inquiry into a complaint against him two days ago, as well as his ‘meeting’ with Sachin Vaze, suspended assistant inspector, who is an accused in Antilia explosive scare case. Walse-Patil also said that the process of suspension of the IPS officer is underway.He said Singh has not communicated with the state government about his returning to the state service. However, Singh visited the office of home guards, as its director-general, but did not take charge of the post. (Singh had been appointed as director-general (home guards) after his removal as Mumbai Police chief.)“Singh is neither on duty nor has he communicated with the state government after returning. He had indeed gone to the home guard office two days ago, but he has not taken charge of the post. He was sitting in the waiting room. It is also true that he used his official car while appearing for the inquiry against him (last week.) It was inappropriate, as he is not on duty. A probe on this has been ordered. He is facing an absconding warrant issued by the court,” he said.Singh appeared in the Mumbai crime branch office on November 25 and was grilled for over five hours in an extortion case. On Monday, Singh and suspended police officer Vaze, reportedly, had a ‘meeting’ when both had come, to appear before the Chandiwal Commission. Vaze is key accused in Antilia explosive scare case and Hiran murder case.Walse-Patil said that he does not want to speak about the suspension of Singh, but the process was underway. The home minister said that any accused needs the permission of the court before meeting anybody. “He (Vaze) is in judicial custody and had not taken any such permission from the court. I have ordered an inquiry into the meeting between the two. I have asked the Mumbai Police commissioner to inquire into it,” he said.Walse-Patil said that there was no pressure on the police while probing Singh. “There should not be any reason for any such pressure. Singh has taken protection (from arrest) from the Apex court and has been appearing before the investigating officers in various cases registered against him,” he said in reply to the question about the pressure on the investigating officers.When asked about the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) complaint on the non-cooperation from the Mumbai Police, the home minister said, “Mumbai Police are doing their duty, CBI is doing its duty. We are cooperating with the central agency and every process is being followed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-orders-probe-in-use-of-official-car-by-param-bir-singh-suspension-process-underway-says-minister-101638285873834.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Centre asks states to ramp up tests, screen international passengers||Mumbai The Union health ministry directed the State government to enhance surveillance on international passengers and increase RT-PCR tests for early identification of positive cases and for effective containment of Omicron variant.The ministry held a meeting with all health secretaries of the states and Union Territories on Tuesday.A health department official said that the centre directed the states to prepare hospital infrastructure and increase medicine capacities. “The new variant is said to be more virulent and rapid in transmission. Therefore, the ministry has directed the states to remain prepared with additional health infrastructure, including beds, ICUs, medical use oxygen, ventilators etc. Besides, the focus should be on rural areas and paediatric cases as per the emergency Covid-19 response protocol,” the senior official said, requesting anonymity. Another senior health department official said that the ministry strictly asked the states to adhere to the Covid guidelines. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the variant can be detected in an RT-PCR, meanwhile, studies are ongoing on whether there is any impact on Rapid Antigen Tests. “The Centre has asked states to increase tests, increase surveillance, effective contact tracing, and have institutional and home quarantine. Besides, we have to push the vaccination drive and push information, communication and education activities to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour to tackle the threat of Omicron,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government would follow the guidelines strictly. “They have asked us to increase RT-PCRs, quarantine the international passengers, re-do the RT-PCR test on the eighth day, promptly send positive reports for genomic sequencing, etc. We will follow the guidelines,” said Tope. The minister added that the state has mandated a seven-day institutional quarantine for international passengers coming from ‘at-risk’ countries.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with all district collectors and city commissioners on Omicron preparedness on Sunday. Thackeray also took stock of the availability of hospital beds, liquid medical oxygen, PSA plants, oxygen concentrators, and the available medicines, including Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Ivermectin, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-asks-states-to-ramp-up-tests-screen-international-passengers-101638285513702.html
30-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Dhami scraps Chardham Devasthanam Board||The Uttarakhand government led by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday ordered scrapping of the Chardham Devasthanam Board, reversing the 2019 decision of his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat.Dhami’s decision led the Congress to term the scrapping of the Board as "defeat” of the saffron party's “arrogance” even as the Chardham priests hailed the decision, terming it as their “victory” and thanking Dhami for it while distributing sweets among themselves.They also offered prayers at Gangotri and Yamunotri temples in the Himalayas praying for Dhami’s long life."After studying all aspects of the issue, we have decided to withdraw the Chardham Devasthanam Board Act," Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Chardham priests had been demanding scrapping of the board ever since its creation in 2019 saying it was an infringement of their traditional rights over the temples.A high-level committee constituted by Dhami to look into the Devasthanam Board issue had submitted its recommendations to him in Rishikesh on Sunday."We went through the details of the report submitted by the panel headed by Manohar Kant Dhyani. After considering all aspects of the issue, our government has decided to withdraw the Act," Chief Minister Dhami said.Constituted during the tenure of former Chief Minister Rawat, the Chardham Devasthanam Board managed the affairs of 51 temples across the state including the famous Himalayan temples of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.Chardham priests described the scrapping of the Board a result of the sustained pressure they had mounted on the government to scrap it."It is a historic decision. A unique incident of Indian democracy where a government had to withdraw its own decision under the public pressure," Chardham Teerth Purohit Hak Hakookdhari Mahapanchayat spokesman Brajesh Sati said.He, however, thanked the chief minister for the decision.Gangotri Mandir Samiti president Harish Semwal and Yamunotri Teerth Purohit Mahasabha president Purushottam Uniyal said it was a victory of "Sanatan dharma". They said they thank the chief minister on behalf of the entire priest community for scrapping the board and protecting the sanatan dharma. Chardham priests had agitated long for scrapping of the board. They had hooted and shown black flags to former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Kedarnath earlier this month forcing him to return from there without a "darshan".They had also performed "sheershasana" outside Cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal's residence in Dehradun recently demanding scrapping of the board besides staging a protest rally on Saturday. Congress' campaign head for Uttarakhand and former Chief Minister Harish Rawat described it as a victory of the priests community. "As in the case of the three agri laws, arrogance has once again been defeated. The BJP has taken the decision sensing its imminent defeat in the coming polls. It is a victory of the priests who refused to budge. I congratulate them," the AICC general secretary said.Aam Aadmi Party's chief ministerial candidate Col (Retd) Ajay Kothiyal also congratulated priests for their victory saying their letter written in blood to the President and the Prime Minister had finally borne fruit. He also said by scrapping the board, the BJP government has confessed that it had committed a crime by constituting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-scraps-chardham-devasthanam-board-101638283765739.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||How can we check commuters’ vax certificates, ask bus, taxi drivers||MUMBAI Although the BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) asked its 27 bus depots in the city to check vaccination certificates before allowing passengers to board buses, commuters and bus conductors have raised doubt over its feasibility. They have also pointed out the potential overcrowding outside bus depots and bus stops, long queues and delay in the operation of buses.Maharashtra government on Saturday issued an order allowing only fully vaccinated passengers to travel by public transport. Bus operators, black and yellow taxi drivers have raised their apprehension about the order and said that they have already suffered losses during the lockdowns. They can’t afford to allow only vaccinated commuters. The BEST on late Saturday evening circulated the Maharashtra government order to its bus depots. However, a few conductors and bus drivers said that they were not aware of any such order and if implemented, it would create confusion.“We do not know about any such order yet but it is nearly impossible to check all the passengers. Checking and permitting passengers will lead to long queues at bus stops, particularly, during office hours,” said a BEST conductor who did not want to be named.The employees pointed out BEST needs to develop a mechanism to check the certificates to avoid delay and confusion. Passengers have stated that though allowing vaccinated passengers in buses and other public transport is a good measure, but the implementation is difficult.“The implementation would not be practical due to the number of passengers travelling during peak hours,” said Aarti Sharma, a Bandra resident.Shirish Deshpande of the Mumbai Grahak Panchy (MGP), stated that although the government’s quick action is appreciated, passengers should be permitted to travel at their own risk. “The government can put stringent measures and charge fines but there could be some unreasonable restrictions. Social distance outside the bus stops could also be reduced,” said Deshpande, chairman, MGP.BEST officials have stated that a process will be developed in the coming days which would be implemented across the bus depots. “The initial order of the state government was circulated to the depot managers. We will develop a process as to how vaccine certificates will be checked,” said a senior BEST official.Taxi unions have stated that they have asked drivers to display a placard stating ‘no vaccination, no ride’ but said it is impossible for drivers to check vaccination certificates.“The drivers have suffered severe losses throughout the lockdowns. It is impossible to check every passenger’s certificate as it will increase the monetary loss. All coronavirus protocols will be followed by taxi drivers,” said AL Quadros, leader of the Mumbai Taximen Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-can-we-check-commuters-vax-certificates-ask-bus-taxi-drivers-101638282213617.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Dip in HIV tests, diagnosis during pandemic: Experts fear surge in advanced infections||The pandemic and the ensuing lockdown restrictions severely impacted human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing in Mumbai. Data from the Mumbai District AIDS Control Society (MDACS) shows that the testing for the infection has dropped by 50% from 475,540 tests in 2019-2020 to 236,392 tests in 2020-2021. The reduced testing had a direct impact on the detection of new cases — the city recorded 4,473 new cases in 2019-2020 and the number fell to 2,063 in 2020-2021. With the decline in Covid-19 cases and the lifting of lockdown restrictions, Mumbai’s HIV programme has shown some signs of recovery. From April to October this year, the city has conducted 190,691 tests and made 1,659 new cases detections. However, the experts are now worried about a surge in the cases of advanced disease among the population that remained undiagnosed. “We started seeing some recovery in the programme from July onwards when restrictions were largely lifted and transportation norms were relaxed,” said Dr Shrikala Acharya, additional project director, MDACS. “But we are worried about people coming with advanced stages of the infection, as they may have delayed their testing and treatment,” she said. HIV attacks the immune system. Its chronic and advanced stage is known as the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), which is now termed Advanced HIV Disease (AHD) by the World Health Organization. Mumbai has 36,674 people living with HIV AIDS (PLHA) who are on lifelong anti-retroviral therapy (ART). Many faced disruptions in their treatment regimen as they migrated back to their hometowns or could not access the ART centres due to the lockdown restrictions and fear of the SARS-CoV-2. “Treatment retention was our main focus in the past 20 months,” said Dr Acharya, adding that a notification allowing the patients to travel on trains by showing the treatment card helped tremendously. She said that her staff was in touch with the patients on phone, to coordinate and help them access the treatment. In addition to this, the MDACS, for the very first time, used postal services to deliver drugs to 96 patients on ART and nearly 300 patients were delivered the medication by MDACS staff, by meeting them at a public place nearest to their homes. “During the surging Covid-19 waves, testing and new case detections almost came to standstill not just in Mumbai but across the country,” said health activist Ganesh Acharya adding that the pandemic has led to a severe setback to the HIV programme and the government will now require to undertake intensive interventions. “Some of the basic, cheap drugs given for opportunistic infections found in HIV patients are not available in centres. Such lacunae will only lead to worse outcomes,” he said. Tuberculosis is the number one cause of mortality among HIV/AIDS patients. But the current preventive therapy — known as the Isoniazid Preventive Therapy (IPT) — has a very high pill burden with 180 doses for six months. “There is another promising preventive therapy known as 3HP, which includes a course of 12 doses spread over 12 weeks, but that is not available in India,” said Eldred Tellis, director of the Sankalp Rehabilitation Trust, a non-profit that works in the field of prevention of drug abuse and blood-borne diseases. “The added burden of the undiagnosed population during the pandemic also calls for better strategies to tackle the existing loopholes like lack of drugs, rolling out effective drug regimens etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dip-in-hiv-tests-diagnosis-during-pandemic-experts-fear-surge-in-advanced-infections-101638281913476.html
30-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka likely to seek ₹1,100 crore rain relief from Centre: Minister||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Tuesday said that the state is likely to seek ₹1,100 crore as relief from the Centre for damages caused during the recent rains. "The report we have to submit to the Centre is getting ready. We may ask for ₹1,100 crore as relief," he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, the memorandum seeking compensation under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) norms will be submitted in three to four days. According to preliminary data, the recent deluge has resulted in 26 people losing their lives, 5.81 lakh hectares of crop loss and 2,339 km of damaged roads. Officials say these figures have been updated and are being compiled. Karnataka received 142 mm rainfall in November against the 39 mm it gets on average, which is nearly a 263 per cent deviation from the norm. Pointing out that the government has so far released a crop loss compensation of ₹318.87 crore to 4.61 lakh farmers, Ashoka said, "Earlier, it used to be paid once a month or once in three months. We have introduced a new system to pay input subsidies to farmers. We are now making immediate payments in instalments that are released once every three or four days." All deputy commissioners have been asked to release timely payments to people affected by rains and floods, he said, adding that Deputy Commissioners of districts have ₹681 crore in their personal deposit accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-likely-to-seek-rs-1-100-crore-rain-relief-from-centre-minister-101638280926914.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Prospering wedding season lifts the spirit of designers||The long and busy wedding season has not only brought smiles on the faces of fashion designers but also added hope to other businesses related to it. With weddings getting bigger and pre-and-post wedding functions also being held, it’s turning out to be a thriving time for the designers. “I have a lot of friends in the fashion and apparel industry and everyone is reporting huge volume of growth that’s keeping them extremely busy. Buyers are looking for customised dresses as well as OTT boom and Bollywood weddings are playing a big role in it. Marriage season always brings a big boost to industry but after nearly two years of low-key functions things are back with a bang,” says Akhilendra Pratap Sonkar, assistant professor at National Institute of Fashion and Technology (NIFT), Raebareli. At Ajara by Aditi Kumar the reported footfall and walk-in conversions have reached to pre-pandemic level. “Now big-fat wedding and pre-wedding functions are back resulting in not just brides, grooms but their close and extended family members going for customized designer stuff. Only big is that people are not investing too much and fearing the third wave they are keeping money handy,” says Kumar. The long wedding season of Hindu marriages is also a big boost for them as marriages are to happen till May 2022 with only lesser dates in March. “Muslim weddings are also scheduled in large numbers till March which will come to halt from Ramzan (April 2022). People are spending less but requirements are high so they are getting back to designer stuff,” says fashion designer Arshi Jamal. Newlywed Sanchita Kumar says that she chose an eight-kali (pleat) lehnga to complete her look for the D-Day. “For my posts on Insta as well as photography I need to wear the best.” Monu Sial, creative head and founder of Azzura, adds, “We have seen a huge difference in the way people are shopping for weddings since last year. Then it was about intimate festivities where brides chose toned down outfit for max one or two functions. This year has been huge at our atelier as we have seen brides opting for heavy couture which is heirloom worthy and can be passed down through generations,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prospering-wedding-season-lifts-the-spirit-of-designers-101638280054720.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt plans policy to allow use of fruits and flowers for distilling liquor||Consumers in the state may soon be spoilt for choice with a range of niche liquors manufactured from fruits and crops like cashew, apples, jamun, mango, berries and mohua flowers hitting the shelves. The state government is working on a policy to allow the use of traditional crops for distilling liquor. “We are planning to allow the distillation of indigenous liquor using cashew fruits, mohua flowers and other traditional crops. This will be a separate category of liquor and will entail a lower license fee and comparatively liberal excise duty regime if these distilleries do not blend other liquor in these products,” a senior state government official said. While promoting agro-based industries and boosting the local economy by channelising investments and creating alternate avenues for farmers to sell their products, this will also make fruit-based and crop-based liquor available for tipplers, as against the conventional molasses-distilled one. At present, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) is charged excise duty at 300% of manufacturing cost or ₹350 per proof litre, whichever is higher. This indigenous liquor will be taxed at a lower, concessional rate to promote investment in the setup of distilleries and ensure that the end products are cheaper. Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state excise, confirmed that the policy was under consideration. It will be placed before the state cabinet for its approval, she added. This is part of the state’s larger policy to allow the use of fruits, flowers and stems for manufacturing alcohol. In 2019, the state government had decided to charge a nominal excise duty of ₹1 per bulk litre as a duty on fruit and mead (honey) wines. Earlier, there was no such tax holiday for these fruit-based dessert wines, which were charged duty at 100% of manufacturing cost, plus goods and services tax (GST), which ensured that they were costly compared to grape-based wines, which have been exempted from paying excise duty till 2021-end. In 2018, the state government had extended the definition of wine to cover those wines made from fruit, flowers, stems and honey. In May, the state government had removed mohua (mhowra) flowers from the purview of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949. This deregulation on the collection, purchase, sale, and transport of these flowers, which are fermented by tribals in parts of Vidarbha to brew country liquor, meant that like earlier, no permits were needed to be sought for the purpose. Shekhar Nikam, Nationalist Congress Party, Member of Legislative Assembly from Chiplun, who has a demonstration unit manufacturing fruit-based wines, said fruits grown locally like jackfruit, mango, jamun, and berries, could be used for producing liquor. “Once the government lays down its policy and allows the distillation of such liquor, feni can be distilled from cashew fruit grown in the Konkan, much of which goes waste,” he explained. In 2020-21, around 32 crore litres of country liquor (CL) was sold in Maharashtra, followed by beer (30 crore litres), IMFL (20 crore litres) and wine (70 lakh litres). The state excise department has a revenue collection target of ₹19,500 crore for the present financial year. In 2020-21, the actual collections were at ₹15,089 crore due to the Covid-19 lockdown, which saw liquor retailers down their shutters, and economic distress. IMFL sales contribute to around ₹8,500 crore in revenues, followed by ₹4,000 crore for CL, and ₹2,200 crore for beer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-plans-policy-to-allow-use-of-fruits-and-flowers-for-distilling-liquor-101638278853325.html
30-11-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till December 15||The West Bengal government on Tuesday extended the exisiting norms necessitated to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state till December 15.Among others, the government continues to prohibit all outdoor activities, including movement of people and vehicles between 11pm and 5am, except for health services, law & order and essential commodities.The Covid-19 lockdown in West Bengal was extended till November 30 after a review of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, read the order issued by the state secretariat, Nabanna. The lockdown extension was recommended by the state executive committee of the West Bengal state disaster management authority, it said.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Local trains allowed with 50% capacity in West Bengal, night curfew relaxed for major festivalsThe Bengal government asked all the district administrations, police commisionerates and local authorities to ensure strict compliance with the stated directives. Any violation of the restriction's measures will be liable for proceedings as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the government order warned.The announcement comes a day after West Bengal on Monday reported 511 new infections, taking the tally to 16,15,378, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-december-15-101638275760523.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Bail plea of three accused rejected||LAKHIMPUR KHERI District and sessions judge, Mukesh Mishra, on Tuesday rejected the bail pleas of three Tikunia violence accused – Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara and Ullas Trivedi alias Mohit Trivedi.During the course of hearing, the defence counsel argued that the three accused were not present on the crime spot on October 3 and were not implicated in the FIR, said Arvind Tripathi, district government counsel (DGC). However, the prosecution told the court about having solid evidence against the three accused supported by statements of three witnesses, said Tripathi.After hearing the arguments from both - the defence and the prosecution, district and sessions judge, in his seven-page order, rejected the bail applications of the three accused in view of the gravity of the crime and ongoing investigations, he added.Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara and Ullas Trivedi are among the 13 accused arrested in connection with FIR number 219 in the case related to the alleged mowing down of four farmers and a journalist by an SUV in Tikunia kotwali area on October 3. MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in this case.HEARING ON JAISWAL’S BAIL TODAYMeanwhile, hearing on the bail application of another Tikunia case accused, Sumit Jaiswal, would be held on Wednesday in the court of district and sessions judge, Mukesh Mishra.In the Tikunia violence case, Jaiswal is also among the 13 accused arrested in connection with FIR number 219, in which Ashish Mishra is main accused.He had moved his bail application in the court of district and sessions judge on November 20, after his bail was rejected by the CJM’s court on November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-bail-plea-of-three-accused-rejected-101638276933243.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||UPTET paper leak: Exam Regulatory Authority secretary suspended||PRAYAGRAJ Taking cognisance of the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test (UPTET) -2021 paper leak, the state government on Tuesday suspended secretary of Prayagraj-headquartered Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), UP, Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay with immediate effect. UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary (classes 1-5) and upper primary (classes 6-8) classes in schools of UP government. The responsibility of conducting the exam lies with the ERA. Updhyay will remain attached to the office of director (basic education), UP, in Lucknow during the period of his suspension, informed a senior official of the ERA. Prima facie, he has been found negligent in ensuring smooth, fair and copying-free conduct of UPTET-2021, as per the order issued by secretary (basic education) Anakima Singh in this regard, the official added. According to the order dated November 29, a copy of which is with HT, failure to ensure smooth conduct of the exam and failing to maintain confidentiality in this regard led to the cancellation of UPTET-2021. UPTET for the primary level was to be held at 2,554 centres across UP between 10am and 12.30pm followed by test for upper primary level from 2.30pm to 5pm at 1,754 centres on November 28. A total of 12,91,628 candidates were registered to appear in the test in the first shift in the state while 8,73,553 were registered to appear in the second shift. However, the state government was forced to cancel it after the recovery of question papers from 26 people arrested in five districts of the state hours before the exam. The state government has made clear that the exam would now be conducted within a month and the examinees would not have to pay extra fees or fill fresh forms for it. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had issued a stern warning against those involved in the UPTET paper leak, saying National Security Act and the Gangsters Act will be invoked against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-paper-leak-exam-regulatory-authority-secretary-suspended-101638276393527.html
30-11-2021||Jaipur||After boy’s complaint, Dausa administration stops child marriage||The marriage of a 19-year-old boy was stopped by the Dausa district administration in Rajasthan on Tuesday, four days after he sought intervention from the state child rights commission saying he does not want to marry and wants to pursue his college education, officials said. The legal age of marriage for boys is 21 and for girls, it is 18 years. The boy, a resident of Sikrai town in Dausa district, is Class-XII pass out and was to be unwillingly married on Tuesday to a girl of his parents’ choice. The boy approached the commission last Friday saying he want to study further and join the Indian Army.Following the complaint, the commission directed the Dausa district administration to take action and stop the marriage. Dausa collector, Peeyush Samariya, said on Sunday, a police team was sent to the boy’s residence and both the families were told that they cannot hold the marriage as one of them was not of the eligible age to get married. The girl was of the same age as him, therefore, she was eligible for marriage.A compliance report was submitted in the local court as the action was taken under the Prohibition of the Child Marriage Act. “It was surprising as for the first time a boy had called authorities to get the marriage stopped. He acted pro-active to stop the marriage,” the collector said Chairperson, Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Sangeeta Beniwal said, “In my tenure as the chairperson, and even in general, this probably is the first time that a boy has approached the commission to stop his marriage.” She said through social media, he got her mobile number and called her to help him stop his marriage on November 30. The boy told that he wants to prepare for the army and has made all attempts to convince his parents but failed. She said the boy was not willing to get married till he settled professionally.Beniwal said the boy asked her to send the police as early as possible to stop the marriage. “He had sent his Class-XII mark sheet to confirm his age, and also shared that the bride is also of his age,” she said, adding that the boy also shared his wedding card. Kriti Bharti, who runs a non-government organization (NGO) working against child marriage, said this is not the first time a boy has approached to stop his marriage. “Over 50 times, roughly, boys have approached me to get their marriage stopped. In child marriages, both girl and boy are victims, but certainly, the girls are more active to approach,” she said. Bharti recalled, “In 2012, a 14-year-old boy had to stop his marriage. When we reached the venue in Jodhpur, the family members presented some other boy but luckily we had his photo. Later in the night, the family tried again to marry him, he informed, and our team rushed again late night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/after-boy-s-complaint-dausa-administration-stops-child-marriage-101638276154742.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||‘30,000 oxygen beds, 10,000 ICU’: Kejriwal’s plan to tackle omicron Covid variant||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday laid down measures that the Union territory's government would adopt in order to tackle the omicron variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) if it reaches to the national capital.This comes following the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo’s appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from affected countries to check the omicron variant from entering India.On Monday, Kejriwal took to Twitter to reiterate his demand, asking what is the reason behind the delay in restricting international flights. “Even in the first wave, we had delayed stopping foreign flights. Most of the foreign flights come to Delhi, Delhi gets affected the most. PM sahib please stop flights immediately,” his tweet in Hindi read.Also Read | Stop flights from Omicron-affected countries: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PMEarlier in the day, Kejriwal held a review meeting with government departments to take stock of the capital’s preparedness for combatting omicron Covid-19 variant and a possible third wave. During the press conference, the chief minister said that as many as 6,800 ICU beds are under construction and will be ready by February 2022, following which nearly 17,000 ICU beds will be present in Delhi.He further stated that telemetry devices have been directed to be installed in all oxygen tanks across the national capital, which will help in checking the availability of oxygen in each tank on a real-time basis. Kejriwal added that the Delhi government is “ready” if omicron Covid-19 variant is detected in the city.Here’s a list of all steps that Delhi government have taken to tackle omicron Covid-19 variant:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-delhi-is-gearing-up-to-tackle-possible-entry-of-omicron-covid-variant-101638275271996.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||The whole truth with a twist in the tale||As a writer (if I may describe myself as one at the risk of sounding immodest), I suppose I do have the licence to garnish my anecdotes with that extra bit of spice (after all, it’s not The Spice of Life column for nothing) or sprinkle some nuggets and bits of exaggeration as a means of enhancing the flavour of my piece or even make up a little story as a seasoning to add that little zing and hold the interest of my readers, but as often as not I do get asked some probing questions regarding the veracity of a particular episode or the experiences I may have attributed as my own. It makes me wonder as to why anyone would take my written word as the gospel truth or even consider that I should only write what I have truthfully and personally experienced! Many of you, I am sure, are about to abandon the rest of my article in disgust, appalled that I am quite a liar, deceiver and a fraudster. But if you trust me (and why should you?), this latest tale about to unfold is true to the very last word. My uncle had not been keeping well for quite some time and the worried family took an appointment with a high-profile doctor, carried all his previous medical reports and reached the hospital. The good doctor, a no-nonsense fellow, in keeping with most members of his revered profession, short on time, possessing an even shorter threshold of patience and a long queue of anxious patients shuffling outside his door, admitted them in and listened to uncle’s symptoms, while simultaneously riffling through the file of extensive tests undergone previously. All of a sudden he stopped short, horror struck, looked uncle up and down, whilst scanning the results of a blood report and said: “Where did you get this one done? It is unbelievable. A patient with readings such as these is likely to be frothing at the mouth, writhing on the floor or have collapsed already!” He actually looked unnerved and ordered the family to immediately make uncle undergo a fresh battery of tests under his personal supervision. My aunt, not one to be calm or collected under normal circumstances, understandably had a few hysterical moments and in a distraught and panicked state rushed out of the door, while desperately scanning the report once again. Peering at it carefully, she went quiet and a shamed look came upon her face. Mortified she beckoned to her son standing inside, crestfallen at the turn of events, scared for his father. The blood report in question was that of their pet dog! Uncle’s name was on it and on the side was scribbled illegibly the word, ‘Owner’. I don’t know what they did next and I think I will not ever ask them because the scene with the doctor could not have been pretty. Uncle, fortunately, is hale and hearty now, healthy enough to recount this tale, where they all blame each other for the mixing up the reports and every narration ends up in blasts of loud laughter. For this one, I am willing to take the witness stand, place my hand on my heart, and solemnly affirm that I am speaking the truth, the whole truth, so help me God! pallavisingh358@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-whole-truth-with-a-twist-in-the-tale-101638275553501.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sanjeev Kaushal appointed Haryana chief secretary||Haryana government on Tuesday appointed 1986-batch IAS officer Sanjeev Kaushal as the new chief secretary. He replaced 1985-batch IAS officer Vijai Vardhan, who retired on Tuesday. Additional chief secretary, power, PK Das was posted as additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management in place of Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sanjeev-kaushal-appointed-haryana-chief-secretary-101638275372381.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC postpones reopening of primary schools to Dec 15||Mumbai In the wake of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has postponed the reopening of schools in the city to December 15.Schools were slated to open on December 1. The BMC’s education department on Tuesday said that even though offline classes will resume in the next two weeks, parents can opt for online ones.Data showed that 10 lakh students study in classes 1 to 7 in 3,420 primary schools in the city. However, though the date of reopening has been postponed, the standard operating procedure will remain the same. “The guidelines mandate one student per bench and the maximum operation of the school for two to three hours daily,” said education officer Raju Tadvi of the BMC.Tadvi said, “It is a fact that in more than 12 countries of the world, the Omicron variant is infecting people. As a result of this, we need to take preventive measures considering the population of the city. The Omicron variant is being studied and there is no sufficient data on the same, and hence it will take a few days to gauge the situation.”He added that reopening schools would mean disinfecting them, cleaning them and making all logistical arrangements. “We will also have to get parents to submit consent letters without which we cannot expect students to come to school. Hence, to be fully prepared and avoid any untoward incident, we have decided to reopen primary schools from December 15 instead of December 1.”The SOP details guidelines across nine parameters, including attendance, safety and Covid-19 hygiene, teaching, seating arrangements in classrooms, for school managements, teachers, students, and parents. The BMC has mandated that school managements should link their schools with the nearest primary health centres before restarting classes, to better deal with health emergencies among students and staff. Meanwhile, two months after the reopening of the schools there is no spike reported in the number of cases in children or teenagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-postpones-reopening-of-primary-schools-to-dec-15-101638274473138.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Omicron, possible third wave of Covid-19: Kejriwal on Delhi govt's preparation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that his government has prepared 30,000 oxygen beds and ramped up oxygen supply and storage facilities in the wake of the threat posed by the new omicron variant of coronavirus.Also Read | Delhi govt designates Lok Nayak Hospital for treating Omicron casesHe also held a review meeting with officials of various government departments to review the preparations to deal with a possible third wave."This time, we have prepared 30,000 oxygen beds. Out of these, 10,000 are ICU beds. There are 6,800 beds under construction that will be ready by February,” the chief minister said in an online briefing.Giving details about the preparations, Kejriwal said the government will be able to provide 100 beds at a two-week notice. The Delhi government is also ordering 32 kinds of medicines to create a buffer stock of two months, he added.The national capital grappled with an oxygen crisis during the second wave in April and May, the chief minister said, adding the government has created an extra storage facility of 442 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, something that was not there during the previous wave.In the wake of fast-spreading omicron variant, Kejriwal had urged the central government to ban flights from countries where cases of the new strain have been detected.Currently, Delhi has at least one traveller from Germany, suspected to be infected with the new variant, admitted to Medanta hospital, according to officials. His sample has already been sent for genome sequencing to the National Centres for Disease Control and a report is awaited.Omicron was first identified in southern Africa on November 24 and since then has spread to more than a dozen countries. India is still untouched by the variant, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Parliament on Tuesday, assuring that the government has put in place enough checks to stop the variant from reaching the country.Also Read | Centre extends Covid-19 guidelines till December 31In fresh guidelines issued on November 25, the health ministry asked state governments to tighten the screening of all the international passengers. It has also told the states to ramp up testing underlining that the omicron variant does not escape RT-PCR and RAT tests.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level virtual meeting with state governments, where he advised them not to let their guard down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-kejriwal-on-delhi-govt-s-preparation-101638273537653.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Annual placements at IITs kick off online from Dec 1||The first phase of placements across the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) will kick-off from December 1 and, going by the high number of pre-placement offers (PPOs) received by institutes, most are hoping for higher number of job offers than last year. Some top IITs have already hinted at more than one student being offered an annual package of ₹1.46 crore this year. “We cannot reveal any details of the job offer or the pay package before the official confirmation. But we are definitely witnessing a rise in international postings for this batch compared to last year,” said an official from the placement team at IIT Bombay. Last year, the highest package offered to a student of IIT Bombay was $200,000 (approximately ₹1.54 crore) by US-based IT firm Cohesity. The same firm has offered the highest package again this year. Once again this year, placement interviews will be conducted virtually. HT recently reported that the number of PPOs, based on figures shared by several IITs, has been higher than those received in 2019, before the outbreak of Covid-19.At IIT Bombay, the batch has received 248 PPOs compared to 164 in 2019. At IIT Delhi and IIT Roorkee, the overall PPOs are almost 25-30% higher than last year and 2019. At IIT Madras, the batch received over 227 PPOs compared to 186 last year and 170 in 2019.“This year, industry response to invitations to participate in campus placements of students has been encouraging across sectors. Many organisations have registered with the placement office with an intent to hire graduates of IIT Delhi. There is an increasing registration for new-age technology-based hiring profiles related to data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning in addition to traditional profiles,” said a spokesperson for IIT Delhi.Domestic companies are also expected to make several offers this year, with higher packages than last year. “Several public sector units have also shown interest in placements this year, and are being given preference based on student interests,” said a spokesperson for IIT Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/annual-placements-at-iits-kick-off-online-from-dec-1-101638273932955.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Lucknow resident arrested for cheating job aspirants of ₹1 crore||Mumbai cyber police arrested a 29-year-old from Lucknow for allegedly running a job racket and duping dozens of job aspirants to the tune of ₹1 crore, officials said. The accused, Shailendra Bharti, director of GDAS Business Solutions Pvt Ltd, has been arrested following a complaint lodged by S Vidya Raju, 49, who he cheated of ₹26.09 lakh. According to the police, Bharti, with the help of his friends, would steal data of job aspirants from various job portals and then contact them and offer jobs as per their requirements promising lucrative salaries. He would mostly target individuals looking for senior positions and offer posts like deputy general managers to most of them. Later, in the name of various procedural expenditures and charges, he would extract money from the victims. “In this case, Bharti had offered Raju a job in a well-known company and to gain her trust also telephonically interviewed her, posing as a senior executive from the company. Later, when she failed to get the job. When she demanded her money back, the accused took more money from her in the name of a refund process,” said a cyber police official. Police officials said Bharti duped the woman between September 15, 2018, and August 10, 2020, to the tune of ₹26.09 lakh. Analysis of his bank account data and technical investigation led assistant police inspector Shriniwas Kamuni and his team from East region cyber police station to Lucknow from where they arrested Bharti on November 16. The police team seized chequebooks and passbooks of six bank accounts and five mobile handsets and three SIM cards from him. “Bharti, who is a science graduate, earlier worked in a job recruitment company and from there he thought of opening his own job/placement company and duping people in the name of offering them job. From the fraudulently obtained money he wanted to open an imitation jewellery business,” said Rajesh Nagawde, senior inspector of East region cyber police station.The officials said the bank accounts were used to receive the amount from victims and analysis of these six bank accounts revealed that there were transactions worth ₹1 crore in the recent past. Deputy commissioner of police, Cyber, Dr Rashmi Karandikar said the accused has been remanded to judicial custody till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lucknow-resident-arrested-for-cheating-job-aspirants-of-rs-1-crore-101638272433871.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||17-year-old stabs autorickshaw driver, held||The Dindoshi police on Monday nabbed a juvenile robber for stabbing an autorickshaw driver multiple times. According to the police, the incident took place at Goregaon (East) bus stop. The complainant Vikram Singh, 25, was on his way to the depot looking for passengers at 9.35pm on Monday when a boy flagged the auto and approached him. As Singh stopped, the 17-year-old informed him that his wife had gone missing and needed to drive around to find her. Singh agreed to help him to look for his wife. After travelling for five minutes the accused asked Singh for his mobile phone to call his relatives. The victim agreed; however, instead of calling his relatives, he called his friends and asked them to meet him at a deserted stretch of road, towards Malad. The driver suspected foul play and asked the accused to return his phone and get off the rickshaw. “The accused then pulled out the knife from his pocket and stabbed him over five times on his shoulder, arms and stomach,” said a police officer attached to Dindoshi police station. The officer said passers-by called up the police station and reported the assault. The police arrested the juvenile, as he had a previous case registered against him and had also spent time in the children’s home and a correction facility. The officer said, the accused allegedly targeted auto drivers and ran with their mobile phones and cash after threatening them with the knife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/17yearold-stabs-autorickshaw-driver-held-101638272372948.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Handprint’s actions towards sustainability||PUNE In 2007 at a school in Hyderabad, a discussion was being done on ecological impact by my colleagues at the Centre for Environment Education. Srija, a ten-year-old, asked why we always talk about our impact and not what we can do for sustainability.It is her question that inspired the idea of the “Handprint.” The Handprint was adopted at a conference on Education for Sustainable Development in Ahmedabad, as an international symbol for actions to create a better world. And November 27 was declared by the delegates as Handprint Day.Concern for the environment is embedded in our traditions. The Yujur Veda entreats us to “not disturb the sky and not pollute the atmosphere”, while the Rig Veda says: “Do not harm the environment; do not harm the water and the flora; the earth is my mother; I am her son; may the waters remain fresh; do not harm the waters. Do not cut trees, because they remove pollution.”Care for the environment is also reflected in the Constitution of India, Article 51(A) (g) which sets a constitutional obligation on the citizens of India “to protect and improve the natural environment, including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures.”The Handprint draws on such wisdom from our collective heritage and represents the belief that we can make a difference. Our individual and collective actions can solve environmental problems, decrease the human footprint, and make the world more sustainable.The Handprint goes beyond the idea of individual action. It also contains the ideas of learning through action and action along with others. These dimensions are particularly relevant when one considers the climate and ecological changes that our children and their children will have to face within the foreseeable future.Children and youth will need not only knowledge, but systems thinking and critical thinking competence, as well as the ability to communicate and collaborate. Above all, they will need empathy and a caring attitude towards one another, and the living world.When we act on our own, we may develop our individual capabilities to plan, act, and reflect. When we act with others, we may develop a larger understanding and enhance our ability to communicate, collaborate and live together.Anyone can take Handprint action. Just start with any positive action that is possible – cycling instead of using a car, composting instead of throwing mixed waste, or changing to more efficient lights, among others. Whenever it is time to do more, when you feel you are ready to work with others to make a larger difference, you can take that next step. You may become part of a campaign for an environmental or social issue or even lead one.Handprint includes citizenship action, advocacy for sustainability, and participation in decision-making to make it more realistic, representative, and responsive. You might stand for elections and play a leadership role or help conduct a citizens’ assembly and support a whole community to take collective Handprint actions.It might not be easy, or it might be fun. Others bring different perspectives, and you might enjoy looking at things differently. Handprint actions can become a hobby and bring their own rewards in new learning and satisfaction of being involved in positive ways.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-handprint-s-actions-towards-sustainability-101638269674148.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi writes to PM Modi, seeks complete waiver of farmers’ debt||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a “complete debt waiver” for farmers and farm labourers while offering to shoulder the state’s burden. Also read: Pak model apologises after row over her ‘bareheaded’ pics at Kartarpur GurdwaraIn the letter sent a day after the three farm laws were repealed in Parliament, Channi wrote, “With the annulment of the three farm laws by you, the farmers and the government have moved a step closer to resolving pending issues that have taken centre stage. The key issue is that of agricultural debt.” Channi said that during a meeting with farmer leaders in Chandigarh recently, the demand that remains pending at his level is that of the issue of farm debt. “A glittering ray of hope has, however, shone after the Government of India’s changed stance (on the farm laws),” the chief minister said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the farm laws would be repealed on November 19, coinciding with the Gurpurb to mark the 552nd birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. After the repeal of the three laws in Parliament, a large number of farmers and farm bodies under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) are continuing with their protests at the Delhi borders, seeking acceptance of six more demands, but they don’t include debt waiver. Punjab farmers’ loan crosses ₹ 1 lakh crore “A Centre-state shared scheme of an appropriate ratio spread over some time with proper modalities needs to be framed to handle this issue and end the debt of our farmers and farm labour once and for all,” Channi suggested to the PM. By an estimate, the total loan, institutional and non-institutional, on the agrarian class in Punjab has crossed ₹ 1 lakh crore. The Congress government in the state had waived ₹ 4,610.24 crore debt on 5,63,718 farmers when Capt Amarinder Singh was at the helm. Channi took over from Capt Amarinder Singh on September 20 after a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. When Capt Amarinder was sworn in as CM in 2017, the government was to reach out to 10.25 lakh farmers and waive up to ₹ 10,000 crore, but the plan was watered down to waiving loans of up to ₹2 lakh on small and marginal farmers in the state. It was also decided to pull out income tax payee farmers and those into public sector jobs from the scheme. Urges PM to make a fresh start Justifying the state’s claim for debt waiver, Channi wrote, “Punjab’s farmers picked up the gauntlet of food scarcity of the nation when PL480 variety of wheat was imported from the US and became the bulwark of the Green Revolution.” He said the godowns that are full today testify their relentless toil. “However, while ensuring food security, our self-pride driven farmers have crippled themselves under the weight of a mountain of debt,” the CM said. “Prime Minister sir, let’s make a fresh start and work towards improving the entire ecosystem of agriculture in Punjab in particular and the nation in general. We as stakeholders are ready to commit ourselves to any new arrangement that is decided mutually between all,” Channi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-complete-waiver-of-farmers-debt-101638269553065.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Opposition may have to redraw its strategy in UP||With Parliament repealing the contentious farm laws on the very first day of its winter session today, the opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh are literally in a state of disarray.Till now, they were riding high on the potent issue that had dented the pro-poor image of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-led governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh. Though the farmers have so far refused to relent on their demand for legal sanctity to the Minimum Support Price (MSP), the withdrawal of the farm laws may enervate their year-long successful movement.Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik, who hails from West UP, opines, “Some anger against the BJP might reduce but the issue will remain unresolved till government concedes their MSP demand.”But can MSP have the same polarising effect as the three farm laws? That’s the worry of the opposition already facing a tough challenge from a mighty BJP in the upcoming 2022 assembly polls. Even as the impact of the farmer’s agitation was largely confined to west UP, it had become a talking point in other parts of the state after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Thus, it helped the opposition construct a political narrative, combined with other issues like petrol, diesel, cooking gas and fertilizer prices.Now, the opposition may have to redraw their poll strategy as the BJP will not leave any stone unturned to win back the region that largely contributed to its victory in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha and 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections. Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be addressing party’s booth presidents meeting on December 2 in Saharanpur, giving direction as well as fillip to the BJP’s campaign. Already several union ministers have addressed meetings in West UP.Hoardings are ready to flood the region. Most of them will have farmers thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for repealing the farm laws. And then the communal fault lines may also reappear damaging the revived Jat-Muslim bohomie. The BJP has galvanised its organisational machinery and intensified a strong Hindu agenda to break itWhy opposition is worried ?“The gap left behind the 2017 elections is too huge to cover,” said a Congress leader from west UP referring to 325 of the 403 seats won by BJP and its allies in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.He said, “The BJP has penetrated vote banks like OBCs, Vaishyas, Brahmins and non-Jatav Dalits. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has revived and allied with the Samajwadi Party (SP), the front-runner in the upcoming polls. But the SP will have to stitch some caste alliances here in west UP on the pattern of east UP, where it has found a partner in Om Prakash Rajbhar. ”Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary have been drawing crowds while the Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been evoking curiosity. But can they stop the BJP in its tracks? Many experts are of the view that even the BJP’s fall from 325 could be by 100 seats, still leaving them with a comfortable majority.Aware of the ground realities, Jayant Chaudhary has already started talking about inclusive politics though he is confident that the farmers will not forget their miseries and forgive the BJP.“The farmers struggled and succeeded in their battle. It’s not a mercy shown to them. Do you think they can so easily forget and forgive the government that compelled them to spend wintry nights in the open?” he asks.Upendra Kumar and his brother Ajay Kumar, farmers from Baraut, Charan Singh’s village, lament the fact that they have to sell their paddy at Karnal in the neighbouring Haryana. According to them, the government had to succumb to the mounting pressures from the farmers and they will have to concede our demand for MSP. They say: How can the government ignore the voice of farmers, who form 60% of the state’s population?Meanwhile, the RLD has launched Bahujan Uday Abhiyan in the western districts to reconstruct the rainbow coalition of castes that Charan Singh had envisaged. The party leaders move around villagers, especially Dalit dominated, with their message of social inclusion. So, the opposition parties, in all probability, will revisit their poll strategy. As such, all the four opposition parties — the SP, RLD, Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party — lack the wherewithal to vie with the ruling party’s paraphernalia. The major challenge will be ticket distribution, in which much of the balancing of the castes will have to be done. As an expert on condition of anonymity said, “Public memory is ephemeral. Barring families who lost their near and dear ones to Covid, few are talking about mismanagement today. Elections are a few months away and caste equations matter. To keep the farmers’ issue burning, the opposition will have to keep rubbing it, reminding them of their year-long battle.”So, the crux of the matter is that will farmers’ anger subside or simmer in the coming months? Will the communal fault lines re-appear? How will the opposition set right its caste calculus? Will the voters remain an aggrieved farmer at the polling booth or will be guided by his caste? Will opposition ensure the election does not get a communal colour with jibes like “abba jaan” with intent to paint the SP-RLD as parties of Muslims? And in a multi-cornered contest, how will they ensure that even BJP votes divide? The churning is on. Is West U.P. up for grabs ?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/opposition-may-have-to-redraw-its-strategy-in-up-101638269312903.html
30-11-2021||Patna||Drones to be used for river patrolling to check liquor smuggling in Bihar||Bihar Excise Commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji on Monday instructed District Magistrates (DMs) and Superintendents of Police (SPs) to ensure river patrolling to check the smuggling of liquor in Bihar by river routes.The excise commissioner will also use drones for monitoring in the areas where liquor is manufactured illegally.The excise department has decided to deploy more police personnel at check-posts.Since April 1, 2016, over 55,000 vehicles have been confiscated.The excise department has conducted raids at 19,175 locations and over 4,000 cases have been registered and 4,610 people have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/drones-to-be-used-for-river-patrolling-to-check-liquor-smuggling-in-bihar-101638262398690.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Six killed in car collision in Haryana’s Kaithal||Six people were killed and four injured when two cars collided near Pai village of Pundri block in Kaithal district on Tuesday morning. Also read: ‘40 civilians killed in terror-related incidents in J&K this year’: Govt in LSPolice said four of the dead belonged to Satrod Khas village of Hisar district and the couple that died in the accident belonged to Safidon in Jind district. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Kaithal soon after the accident at 7am. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. According to initial reports, both families were going to attend weddings in Pundri and Kurukshetra. Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said that the first information report (FIR) will be registered after recording the statements of the injured and their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-killed-in-car-collision-in-haryana-s-kaithal-101638263432642.html
30-11-2021||Ranchi||4 feared trapped after abandoned coal mine collapses in Jharkhand's Bokaro||Four villagers are feared to be trapped after an abandoned coal mine of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) collapsed during illegal mining of coal in Bokaro district on Sunday.When the rescue team of Bharat Coking Coal Limited, which came earlier to rescue the four people trapped in the debris inside the mine for more than 24 hours, could not rescue the trapped victims, a 25-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Ranchi arrived at the spot."Our team has reached here. The Circle Officer and other people from BCCL are here. We are checking the site. The collapse was really huge. We have not been able to figure out yet where the victims have been trapped. Discussions are going on, we are coordinating with other agencies as of now," said Virender, an NDRF personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/4-feared-trapped-after-abandoned-coal-mine-collapses-in-jharkhand-s-bokaro-101638262546657.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court cancels non-bailable warrant issued against Param Bir Singh||A Mumbai court on Tuesday cancelled a non-bailable warrant issued against former police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with an extortion case registered against him. Singh appeared before the court for getting the warrant cancelled.Singh’s lawyer, Rajendra B Mokashi, cited a Supreme Court’s order and said his client has accordingly appeared before all the agencies investigating cases against him. He added Singh was co-operating with the investigators.The extortion case was filed against Singh at Marine Drive police station based on real estate developer Shyamsundar Agarwal’s complaint. Agarwal has alleged Singh and other officers extorted crores of rupees from him at the behest of his former partner Sanjay Punamiya.Also Read | Elderly parents harassed for property: Bombay HCThree non-bailable warrants were issued against Singh and he was declared a proclaimed absconder.Singh resurfaced in Chandigarh on November 24 two days after the Supreme Court gave him protection from arrest and directed him to join investigations in the pending cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-cancels-non-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-101638260072332.html
30-11-2021||Bangalore||Omicron: Keeping check on international arrivals, no lockdown in K'taka, says CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday his government is keeping a check on international passengers arriving from countries that have reported the omicron variant of coronavirus, adding all such travellers will be tested at the airports upon arrival.Speaking to news agency ANI Bommai said, “We are keeping a strict check at the airport on international passengers arriving from countries where the new Covid variant has been detected.”Bommai also ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in the state but hinted at more precautionary steps to control the spread of Covid-19.Also Read| Amid omicron scare, Karnataka puts nearly 600 passengers under surveillanceThe chief minister said given the variant and new Covid clusters emerging in Karnataka, the state government has to manage things at two levels to control the spread of the virus."Normal public life should continue, but Covid norms should be followed at places where people gather, also organisations of such gatherings should be responsible. We are taking utmost precautions, and wherever clusters have emerged, we will keep extra vigil there," Bommai added, according to PTI.A day back, authorities at the Bengaluru airport made a seven days quarantine compulsory for all international travellers arriving from 'at risk' countries.“All international passengers arriving from 'at risk' countries, who test negative for Covid-19 on arrival in Bengaluru will be put in quarantine for seven days. They will be tested again after seven days,” Bengaluru Rural district health officer Tippeswamy said on Monday. He said nearly 600 of such passengers are under surveillance.The official added that RT-PCR tests are being done for all passengers arriving from at-risk countries. "If they are found negative, then they will be suggested to home quarantine. If the passenger tests positive, they will be sent to a designated hospital for isolation," he said.Also Read| Omicron scare: Centre extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till December 31As per the Centre's guidelines, 11 countries—South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel—have been identified as “at-risk” countries. They have reported cases of the omicron variant.In Karnataka, the state government earlier ordered precautionary measures in Dakshina Kannada, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru which border neighbouring Kerala as CM Bommai pointed out that there is a high prevalence of Covid-19 among people coming to Karnataka from Kerala.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/omicron-keeping-check-on-international-arrivals-no-lockdown-in-k-taka-says-cm-101638253113563.html
30-11-2021||Jaipur||Ensure adequate power supply to farmers, says Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday asked the officials to ensure adequate supply of electricity to the farmers in view of the sowing of crops in the Rabi season.He said the power companies should prepare a long-term action plan to reduce the debt burden and strengthen the transmission distribution system.Gehlot was addressing the review meeting of the Energy Department at the chief minister's residence on Monday.He said the farmers should be motivated to adopt drip irrigation and sprinkler irrigation system by establishing coordination with the officers of the Agriculture Department.According to a statement, in the meeting, Minister of State for Power Bhanwar Singh Bhati said farmers are getting a lot of benefits from the 'Mukhyamantri Kisan Mitra Energy Yojana'.In the meeting, officials said that since December 2018, about 2.5 lakh agriculture connections have been given.In another review meeting, Gehlot said 'Shudh ke liye Yudhh' campaign should be launched continuously so that fear is created among those who practise food adulteration.He said it is the right of the citizens to get pure food products and departments concerned should play an active role in it to ensure the purity of food items.He stressed the need for better coordination of Food and Supplies Department and Medical Department to take action against those responsible for adulteration. Also, to make the campaign more effective, instructions were given for setting up laboratories in all the districts of the state and for the early appointment of Food Safety Commissioner in the Food Directorate established for the prevention of adulteration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ensure-adequate-power-supply-to-farmers-says-rajasthan-cm-101638247704238.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||‘Why are we delaying?' Kejriwal urges to stop flights from omicron-hit countries||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from countries hit by the omicron variant of the coronavirus, days after placing the same request to the Centre.“Many countries have stopped incoming flights from Omicron-affected countries. Why are we delaying? Even in the first wave, we had delayed stopping foreign flights. Most of the foreign flights come to Delhi, Delhi gets affected the most. PM sahib please stop flights immediately,” his tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.On Sunday, Kejriwal wrote to PM Modi over the omicron scare."Our country has fought a tough fight against Corona for the last one and half years. We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern from entering India,” he said in his letter.Also read | Amid omicron scare, Karnataka puts nearly 600 passengers under surveillance"We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern, recently recognised by WHO, from entering India. A number of countries, including the European Union (EU), have suspended travel to the affected regions. I urge you to stop flights from these regions with immediate effect. Any delay in this regard may prove harmful if any affected person enters India," he added.Several countries have implemented blanket travel bans on all foreigners and some on African nations, specifically South Africa, even as the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday the omicron variant carried a very high risk of infection surges, but said no deaths had yet been linked to the new variant.Also read | From Pfizer to Moderna: What vaccine makers are saying about omicron jabs"Omicron has an unprecedented number of spike mutations, some of which are concerning for their potential impact on the trajectory of the pandemic," the WHO said. The overall global risk related Omicron is " very high," it said.Kejriwal will also hold a meeting to review the preparedness to deal with omicron and a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic later in the day."On Tuesday, November 30 at 11 AM, CM @ArvindKejriwal will hold a meeting with the concerned officials to review the preparedness of Delhi in the wake of new COVID-19 variant and third wave," his office tweeted on Monday.Also read | ‘Be alert to threat of Omicron’: PM Modi warns amid rising concernsThe Delhi government on Monday said RT-PCR tests will be conducted on all passengers arriving from six high-risk countries and samples of those who test positive would be sent for genome sequencing. The decision was taken during the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.News agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter, the six omicron-affected countries discussed at the meeting include Belgium, Israel, Hong Kong, Botswana, Zimbabwe and South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/-why-are-we-delaying-kejriwal-urges-to-stop-flights-from-omicron-hit-countries-101638245810425.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Elderly parents harassed for property: Bombay HC||Sons and daughters harass elderly parents to grab their properties, especially among Mumbai’s wealthy sections, the Bombay high court has said while dismissing a woman’s petition challenging a tribunal’s order evicting her from her 94-year-old father’s residence for harassing him.A division bench of justices Gautam Patel and Madhav Jamdar said they have complaints from senior citizens that their sons and daughters are harassing them. “In every case, the harassment is an attempt to somehow grab the senior citizen’s property in his or her lifetime without a thought spared to the mental or physical health well-being or happiness of these seniors.”The bench dismissed the woman’s petition saying the case was no different. The 94-year-old said his daughter returned to Mumbai in 2015 after a brief stay in Germany and moved into his flat unannounced. He said while he was suffering from various age-related ailments and was required to be hospitalised, instead of contributing to the house, the daughter was rude and aggressive and soon started badgering him for her share in the property.Sujay Kantawala, who appeared for the 94-year-old, said his client felt so intimidated at times that he would lock himself up in his room. He added the daughter caused his client physical distress and also damaged the house.Also Read: State issues SOP for schools, vaccines mandatory for staffThe daughter challenged the tribunal’s order claiming the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act did not provide for eviction and therefore the tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction.The court said the terminology is not determinative. “Removal of a person with no right in the premises is not eviction so as to attract any such prohibition,” said the court. It added the house in question was owned by the father and during his lifetime the daughter had no right over it.“After all the statutory intent is to protect senior citizens. It is not to foist on senior citizens an imaginary claim over their own property where the claimant has no such right, to begin with. The statutory intent is not to limit the rights of senior citizens, but exactly the reverse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elderly-parents-harassed-for-properties-bombay-hc-101638243511373.html
30-11-2021||Bangalore||IIMC alumni Meet Connections 2021 closing held in Bengaluru||The Karnataka chapter of the alumni association of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) hosted the valedictory session of Connections 2021 at a hotel in Bengaluru on November 27.Connections is a series of annual alumni meet, organised across India and abroad every single year.Sanjay Dwivedi, the event's chief guest, and the director-general of the IIMC apprised the alumni of the new initiatives taken by the institute, which is under the aegis of the Union ministry of information and broadcasting.Connections 2021 Bengaluru, IIMC Annual Alumni Meet of Karnataka Chapter to be held today at 6:30 pm. DG #IIMC & Chief guest of the event @ProfSanjay_IIMC was welcomed by the @IIMCAA President Mr. @kalyan0302 today. #IIMC #IIMCAA #Connections @iimckottayam @iimcdkl pic.twitter.com/32Ap4Jspg2Karnataka chapter president and senior officer IAS Rajender Kataria presided over the meeting which was attended by IIMCAA president Kalyan Ranjan, IIMCAA awards coordinator Simrat Gulati, IIMCAA medical fund chairperson Nitin Pradhan, general secretary Sadhna Arya, author Milan Vohra, Puja Upadhyay, veteran marketing guru Acchutan Kutty and Madhava Reddy among others.Karnataka general secretary Hemant AR conducted the meet on November 27 while organisation secretary Chaithanya Krishnaraju gave the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/iimc-alumni-meet-connections-2021-closing-held-in-bengaluru-101638239184122.html
30-11-2021||Bangalore||Amid omicron scare, Karnataka puts nearly 600 passengers under surveillance||After two people who returned from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19, authorities have made seven days quarantine compulsory for all international passengers and intensified testing and sanitisation at Bengaluru airport amid increasing concern over omicron.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Monday the samples of one of the two passengers tested positive for coronavirus but was "a little different from the delta variant."Airport authorities in Bengaluru have also made RT PCR and Rapid Antigen testing for those travelling from other countries and thermal screening compulsory.Also read | South African’s Covid sample different from delta: Karnataka health minister"All international passengers who test negative for Covid-19 on arrival in Bengaluru will be put in quarantine for seven days. They will be tested again after seven days,” Bengaluru Rural district health officer Tippeswamy said, adding 598 such passengers are under surveillance.Tippeswamy said airport authorities are mainly checking the vaccination report, RT PCR test and Rapid antigen test reports of the passengers coming from high-risk countries.Also read | Covid clusters in Maharashtra, Karnataka under watch for new variant"We are also conducting RT PCR test at the airport for the passengers arriving from high-risk countries. If they are found negative, then they will be suggested to home quarantine. If the passenger tests positive, they will be sent to a designated hospital for isolation," he added.Tippeswamy said they also discussed the issue of passengers coming from Kerala and Maharastra to Bengaluru without RT-PCR test and vaccination report. "We have already directed airlines to check reports compulsorily and not to allow anyone to travel without the report," he said.As many as 49 health officials have been working in three shifts to check both international and domestic passengers arriving.Also read | From Pfizer to Moderna: What vaccine makers are saying about omicron jabsMeanwhile, a family travelling from Abu Dhabi complained the new protocol of being tested for Covid-19 at the airport is too expensive.“Despite producing negative RT-PCR test reports, officials made us take another test and charged ₹3000 per person. We were called back for the test once after we entered," a family member added, according to news agency ANI.Meanwhile, in view of the new variant of Covid-19, the Dakshina Kannada district administration resumed screening at the Talapady Checkpost, conducting RT-PCR tests of those arriving in the district from Kerala without a negative report.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraja Bommai on Monday asked people not to panic about omicron and they must follow Covid-19 precautionary measures strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-omicron-scare-karnataka-puts-nearly-600-passengers-under-surveillance-101638239134199.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 582 engineering seats still vacant, spot round on December 3||As many as 582 seats in various engineering programmes are still vacant at the three engineering institutes in UT Chandigarh and engineering institute at Panjab University’s regional centre in Hoshiarpur.Three rounds of seat allotment have been held so far and the spot round of seat allotment is scheduled to be held on December 3.Around 252 seats in various engineering programmes under different categories are vacant at PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), followed by 159 vacant seats at University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University SSG Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur.At Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET) around 88 seats are vacant and 83 seats are vacant at PU’s Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET).The withdrawal window for candidates after the third round of seats allotment was from November 28 to 1.00 pm on November 29. The admissions in these institutions are being conducted by the Joint Admission Committee (JAC) based on JEE-mains rank for the 2021-22 academic session.The candidates have to submit a spot round participation fee and submit choices from November 30 to December 2. The candidates who have not deposited seat acceptance fee or who are not allotted seat upto third round or who registered fresh in spot round are required to pay online spot round participation fee ₹40,000.After the spot round on December 3, physical reporting, document verification and payment of balance fee (wherever applicable) will be conducted on December 4 onwards.17 seats vacant in B.ArchMoreover, 17 seats, under various categories, are also vacant in Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) course at Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-582-engineering-seats-still-vacant-spot-round-on-december-3-101638223409595.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC approves ₹1.25 cr to buy 2 pruning machines, funeral van||City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Monday approved ₹1.25 crore for buying two pruning machines and one funeral van for Mohali. Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi was also present on the occasion.The Mohali municipal corporation (MC) already has three pruning machines. The MC already has two of its own funeral vans whereas one van has been provided by industrialists and one by the MPCA. Sidhu said the boundaries of the city and the MC were constantly expanding and due to this the MC was taking decisions to procure its own machinery. Mohali has a large number of trees which are also on the main roads and in parks there are a large number of trees that need timely pruning.He said four zones of the horticulture department had been set up in Mohali and each zone would be provided one pruning machine each while one machine would be used for pruning trees on main roads.He said in view of the expansion of the city, there was a great need for another funeral van and for this it had been decided to procure another van at a cost of ₹20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-approves-1-25-cr-to-buy-2-pruning-machines-funeral-van-101638222212120.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||100% attendance at ICSE Class-10 first-term exams; CBSE to start exams for major subjects||Term exams have started in the city with the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) students appearing for English on Monday. Even with an uptick in Covid cases in the city, almost 100% attendance was seen.Conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), there are four schools that conducted these exams in the city on Monday, including Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, St Stephen’s School in Sector 45, Tender Heart School in Sector 33 and St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School in Sector 44.Speaking about the exam, principal of St Stephen’s Louis Lopez said, “The exam was conducted smoothly and barring one student, who had to participate in a tennis competition and had sought prior permission, we saw 100% attendance for the exams. Parents were also supportive and a total of 223 students sat for the English exam on Monday.”Director of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26 Atul Khanna added, “All Covid protocol was followed while conducting the exam and students were seated in our exam hall following social distancing.” Khanna added that the one-hour exam which was on the easier side was for 40 marks, and a second-semester exam for 40 marks will be held next year. All questions were asked in MCQ format and after the English language on Monday, the ‘Literature in English’ or paper 2 for English will be conducted on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) will also start term exams for major subjects of Class 10 from Tuesday onwards. While the exams for minor subjects had started earlier this month, students will appear for social studies in around 110 centres in the city on Tuesday. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100-attendance-at-icse-class-10-first-term-exams-cbse-to-start-exams-for-major-subjects-101638222210662.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: To contain rebellion, BJP, Congress go slow on ticket allocation||There are around 1,000 contenders for 35 BJP tickets and around 200 in the Congress for the MC elections. But they may have to wait till the last minute before both parties announce their final list of candidates.The nomination for the MC polls started on November 27 and closes on December 4. But so far both the parties have not declared their candidates for any of the 35 wards. The MC polls are scheduled for December 24.By announcing the candidatures at the last minute, the parties want to avert rebels filling nominations as Independents or jumping to another party’s wagon. There is also a cat and mouse game going on between the two parties. On the seats which are considered close calls, the parties also want to first see the candidate that the other party puts up.The concern of rebel candidates is a real possibility for both parties. In recent times, both parties have suffered from open factionalism.Rebellion fears During the last mayoral elections, the BJP had to face rebel candidates.For the Congress, a major public dispute ensued between incumbent city leadership and former party city chief Pardeep Chhabra. Some of the Chhabra loyalists who left the Congress and joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) along with him are likely to face off against their former party colleagues in the MC polls.“Between the last date of nomination, December 4, and the last date for withdrawal of nomination, December 9, most of the time and energy of local party leader is likely to be spent on firefighting internal discord and rebellions,” said a senior BJP leader.For the ruling BJP, the challenge is bigger, having to placate its 20 sitting councillors. The Congress has five councillors in the outgoing MC house of 26 wards.Underplaying inner party differences, Subhash Chawla, state Congress president, said, “It is routine for the parties to announce candidates close to the deadline for filing nomination papers. This has happened in the past elections too.”Stating that there are around 1,000 contenders for the 35 BJP tickets, BJP city chief Arun Sood said, “We are a disciplined party and we don’t have any internal disputes over the ticket allotment. At most, one or two tickets can be sensitive, otherwise, there is no concern over the issue.”On tenterhooksFor the final selection of the candidates, the Congress on Monday constituted a six-member State Election Committee comprising Chawla, former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal among others. The committee also has four special invitees. “The committee will meet on December 1. From there on the finalisation of tickets will be done,” said Chawla. The BJP is largely depending on the different rounds of surveys it is conducting in all the wards. The party’s election candidate selection committee will decide ticket allotment on the basis of these surveys, said Sood.Notably, most of the existing Congress councillors have already started election campaigns either for themselves or their spouses without the party even announcing their candidature. This many party insiders say is their signal to party decision-makers of their resolve to contest the election.Meanwhile, an incumbent BJP councillor, who didn’t want to be identified, said, “We are totally in the dark whether our candidature will be accepted or not. If it is accepted, then we will hardly have 10 days to campaign. This will be particularly tough as areas of our existing wards have been changed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-poll-to-contain-rebellion-bjp-congress-go-slow-on-ticket-allocation-101638222209562.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Make plan to achieve solar power installation target by August 2023: Chandigarh adviser to CREST||Dharam Pal, adviser, UT, has asked officials of the Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) to prepare a year-wise plan to achieve their target of 75 MWp solar power installation by August 2023. This was discussed during the annual governing body meeting of CREST held under his chairmanship on Monday. Officials also discussed how many residential houses, industrial buildings, commercial buildings, institutional buildings, etc, have not complied with the 2016 orders of mandatory installation of the solar power plant in Chandigarh. The adviser directed all such building owners to install solar power plants as per building bylaws immediately, failing which necessary action will be taken against them.More in short storiesFortis Mohali organises walkathon to spread awareness 
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Court awards 3-year jail to Ropar student in drugs case||A local court on Monday awarded three-year jail to a BTech student arrested with 40 gm heroin in December 2016. The court has also imposed a fine of ₹20,000 on accused Gaurav, 25, alias Jaggi, hailing from Ropar. He was arrested by the crime branch of the Chandigarh police and a case under the NDPS Act was registered in December 2016 at the Sector 31 police station, Chandigarh. He was arrested at a naka while coming from Phase 2, Ram Darbar, when he tried to escape after seeing a police team. The police said Gaurav was a BTech student and was habitual of consuming drugs for the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-court-awards-3-year-jail-to-ropar-student-in-drugs-case-101638222089425.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Azad Hind Fauj soldier dies at 100 in Ambala||Kehar Singh, a 100-year-old freedom fighter from Ambala’s Naraingarh block, died on Sunday evening and was cremated with the full state honours at his native Lakhnoura village on Monday.The cremation was attended by officials of the district administration, including Naraingarh tehsildar Dinesh Dhillon and DSP Anil Kumar. Singh’s grandson Mohit lit the pyre after formal rituals. The centenarian was a soldier in the supply depot of the Azad Hind Fauj, also known as the Indian National Army (INA), formed by Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose in 1942.His nephew, Jarnail Singh, said he joined the INA in Singapore at the age of 20 and their camps were captured many times by the British and allied forces and were freed after agreements between both forces.“He left his boarding school at such a young age to fight for the freedom movement after getting inspired by Netaji. After serving in the INA till we got freedom, he then joined a cooperative society where he worked till retirement. The son of a farmer, he spent his life on the ancestral fields,” Jarnail said.Singh is survived by five sons and two daughters. His wife died in 1997. The villagers remember him as a staunch patriot and an inspiration for youth, who remained vocal on many current issues till recently.His elder son Deep Singh, a retired superintendent from the Haryana Secretariat, said he was too excited to listen to the speech by Bose probably in Rangoon (now Yangon), for the first time after his joining. “Talking about how they struggled to get Independence that was possible after scores of sacrifices, he sometimes felt dejected on where the youth is heading towards,” Singh, 67, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azad-hind-fauj-soldier-dies-at-100-in-ambala-101638222029635.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: College teacher protests outside PU vice- chancellor’s office||Days after his election to Panjab University (PU) senate was declared ineligible by vice chancellor Raj Kumar, Tarun Ghai started a 24 hours protest outside his office on the university campus.He has already written to university chancellor and vice president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, seeking an independent probe in the matter. He said that his protest is against the injustice being done by the vice chancellor. “I have given all the facts when the hearing took place on Friday and I have also submitted those facts to the chancellor as well,” he said, adding that an independent probe should be conducted.After hearing the matter on Friday, the order issued by VC Raj Kumar stated that Ghai, whose services were terminated in June by SPN College, Mukerian, where he was an assistant professor, is not a teacher in any college, but was elected from the constituency of teachers of affiliated colleges in August, although he was not reinstated by the college management even after PU’s directions to revoke his termination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-college-teacher-protests-outside-pu-vice-chancellor-s-office-101638221969453.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Under-trial escapes Chandigarh police custody from Mohali court||An under-trial escaped from the Chandigarh police custody on Monday, when he was taken to the Mohali court premises for a hearing. Identified as Ashish Goyal, 45, the accused was lodged in Burail jail in a cheating case and was brought to Mohali district court in another case, which was registered under Section 174-A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation under Section 82 of Act 2 of 1974) against him at Mataur police station.As per information, on Monday, he was escorted by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and head constable of Chandigarh Police to Mohali court. He was to be produced before the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM), but his advocate was not present so the judge asked him to come after lunch, following which all three headed towards the canteen area. The accused asked ASI Brampal for a mobile phone to speak to his lawyer and while talking over the phone, he went towards the main gate and escaped.Chandigarh Police immediately contacted Sohana police station and its in-charge Bhagwant Singh reached the court with a police party. Singh said a message has been flashed to all PCR parties and CCTV footage is being checked. We are hopeful of arresting him soon. A case under Sections 224 (resistance to lawful apprehension) and 225 of IPC has been registered. “It seems it was all pre-planned,” said the SHO said. As per eyewitness, the accused ran and sat in the car, and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/undertrial-escapes-chandigarh-police-custody-from-mohali-court-101638221909557.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Better upkeep of roads, parks on wish list of ward 23 residents||Ward number 23 is a ward reserved for women which comprises Sectors 34, 35 and 43. Sectors 34 and 35 were a part of Ward number 15 as per the previous system while Sector 43 was clubbed with Kajheri and Sector 52 in ward number 12. An urban ward with little space for colonies and villages, residents here complain of bad roads and cleanliness issues.With Sector 43 finally coming into an “urban” ward, chairman of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri who also lives in Sector 43 said, “Earlier, the councillor would usually get elected from Sector 52 and focused more on rural development. Now, we want development on a scale similar to Sector 34 and 35 here. Water supply is a major issue here as water does not reach upper floors. The next councillor must develop new parks in the sector so that children have a place to play in. The open-air gyms installed in the sector must also be maintained better.”There is also a patch of land in front of the housing board houses here which is yet to be developed. Puri complained that the growth of plants here goes unchecked and becomes a problem during monsoons. Similarly, in Sector 34 also, the land in front of Sector 34 gurudwara has been left vacant for many years. At both these places, residents want beautification work.Residents of Sector 34 say many of their problems have been addressed since the local area councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral also lives here. Speaking about this MS Bhalla, president of the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) here said, “Earlier, we didn’t have a Sampark centre here which was a big problem for many seniors living in this sector but it has been built and a tubewell was also installed to improve the water pressure here. However, the population of stray dogs is increasing despite efforts by the authorities. This should be a priority with the councillor. We also had issues with roads and were told by the MC that they would only be recarpeted after five years. The next councillor must ask this rule be checked or better material be used for re-carpeting of roads. More coordination is also needed between the sweepers and the MC horticulture officials. Horticulture waste isn’t picked up regularly.”Another resident of Sector 34, Wing Commander NS Malhi (retd) added that some residents still continue to face problems with water supply even after the installation of the new tubewell.Sector 35 has many houses built by the Chandigarh Housing Board, all of which are struggling with the need-based changes policy as per Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) general secretary JS Gogia who is also a resident of this Sector. “The next councillor must be outspoken about providing relief to these houses in Sector 35-B. The amount of taxes we have to pay to the MC keeps on increasing but their services are getting worse. The new system of garbage collection and water supply has mostly failed and the next councillor must improve this for us,” he added. BJP president for ward number 23 Preeti Verma, who also lives in Sector 35, said, “The current councillor had got into unnecessary controversy over inaugurating projects which the administration had built. The Sector 35 community centre, which was supposed to be revamped, has stayed defunct for years now. On Dakshin Marg, garbage is being dumped along Sector 35 and the Sehaj Safai Kendra here also lies in bad shape.”Saying that the community centre was being revamped because it had turned into a den for anti-social activities, councillor here Ravinder Kaur Gujral said, “We were receiving complaints about people drinking and gambling here so it was renovated. It will be re-inaugurated soon. There are around 140 parks in the ward and all of them have open air gyms now and I constructed toilets for senior citizens who go for walks here. The open spaces in Sector 34 are under the administration but I would still ask the MC officials to clean the area routinely.”Know your wardReserved for women candidatesWard areas: Sector 34, Sector 35 and Sector 43Voter count: 14,500 (approximately)Key issues:1. Poorly maintained vacant land in sectors.2. Recarpeting of roads not being done frequently. 3. Water supply is poor in this ward. Residents living on the first and second floor suffer the most.Local voices:The population of stray dogs must be checked. MC horticulture wing officials also need to clear horticulture waste from parks here more frequently.MS Bhalla, 74, president of the Sector 34 RWA2. The water supply in our Sector is poor. We need more parks for children to play in. Beautification of the vacant land in the Sector is needed.Hitesh Puri (62) chairman of CRAWFED, resident of Sector 433. The next councillor must help residents of CHB houses seek solutions for need-based changes. The new garbage collection system introduced by the MC needs to be streamlined.JS Gogia (76) general secretary of FOSWAC, resident of Sector 354. The roads in Sector get repaired infrequently and are in bad shape. The MC needs to take better care of parks and the Sector 35 community centre must be opened soon.Pulkit Sharma (25) resident of Sector 35||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-better-upkeep-of-roads-parks-on-wish-list-of-ward-23-residents-101638221609814.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Constable recruitment: Aspirants allege scam, hold protest at CP office in Ludhiana||Alleging a scam in the Punjab Police constable recruitment process, aspirants staged a protest outside the office of police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Monday. Claiming that “unusual names” in the merit list suggested fraud, the protesters demanded a comprehensive merit list, featuring each selected candidate’s name, roll number, parents’ name, address and percentage acquired in the written test. A protester, requesting anonymity, said, “Neither the marks, nor any other detail of the selected candidates have been mentioned in the merit list.” ‘ ₹6-lakh for direct recruitment’ A group of aspirants protesting in Samrala alleged that middlemen were demanding ₹6 lakh for direct recruitment as a constable in the Punjab Police.The cops asked the protesters to file a complaint in the matter, but the protesters said they will file a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against the merit list. An aspirant, Ravi Kumar, said around 4,300 posts were notified for the post of constable, and a written test was held on September 25 and 26. “However, the merit list had unusual names such as Seena Seena, Tack Singh, Joseph Joseph, Surand, Nindra Nindra, Sharon Patrick Crasta, Essa Taank, Yannis Yannis and Dron Dron,”he said.“There are many such names. We suspect that names are fake and higher-ups will give the seats to their relatives or those who bribe them,” he said, adding that the selected candidates had already been issued admit cards for the physical test.  ‘Qualifying candidates not on list’ Another aspirant, Sukhwinder Singh, said, “The cut off for general candidates was 70%, while it was 65% for SC and OBC category candidates. However, two women aspirants from the OBC category had secured 69%, but their names are not in the list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/constable-recruitment-aspirants-allege-scam-hold-protest-at-cp-office-in-ludhiana-101638221429582.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Don’t take this with a pinch of salt||Imagine if Emperor Shahjahan had decided on this beautifully tinted marble instead of the ordinary white, the Taj Mahal would have been a translucent pink. Or, if he had chosen that black marble lying over here, the mausoleum would have shone as dark as the deepest shade of midnight.But this is not ordinary marble, the seller Naresh admonishes. Neither is he a seller of any kind of stones, he protests. “I deal in namak.” This is salt, he insists, gesturing towards these unshapely rock-like objects that look like huge pieces of marble possibly excavated from the arid hills of Rajasthan.Naresh parks his cart daily on a dusty roadside in Gurugram’s Sector 14.The setting is conventionally dull, with the noisy traffic choking the air with nauseating fumes. But the horse-drawn cart, loaded with these curious-looking salt rocks, makes the place appear exceptional.You don’t get this namak in India, claims Naresh. These boulders of salt arrive from Pakistan, he informs authoritatively, “and that’s why it is also called the Lahori Namak,” referring to the city in Pakistan’s Punjab. Some moments later, a pedestrian stops by and sceptically asks if it is indeed Lahori namak. Naresh nods silently.Lying sprawled atop the cart, as if it were his bed, he points to a row of stony fragments in light pink. “They are called the pink salt.” He next points towards similar pieces in black. “Those are called the black salt.”Pink salt is used in the preparation of dal sabzi, while black salt is sprinkled over chopped fruit, or chaat, Naresh says mechanically, sounding like an announcer at a railway station.This smoggy afternoon, the sun is shining palely but these salt rocks are glistening in an inner light of their own, as if each one of them is embedded with a small electric lamp.The salt is sold in whole pieces ( ₹80 per kg), though Naresh also stocks splintered and powdered varieties (processed in a ‘chakki’, or mill), which are easier to use in the kitchen, and slightly more expensive. A native of Rohtak in Haryana, he has been a salt trader for 20 years. “Before that, I used to work at a brick kiln.”Soon, another passerby pauses, looking wondrously at the salt rocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-don-t-take-this-with-a-pinch-of-salt-101638220927431.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||At 8.8°C, Chandigarh sees coldest night of season so far||The city’s minimum temperature dropped to 8.8°C on Monday, the lowest it has gone this season as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With a western disturbance approaching the region, it is expected that the minimum temperature will go up for a few days but it is expected to dip again.IMD officials said, “A western disturbance will affect the city from Wednesday onwards. So far, rain seems unlikely but partly cloudy weather can be expected. This will cause the maximum temperature to go down and minimum temperature to rise. Snowfall is expected in Himachal Pradesh and this will cause the temperatures to drop further in the start of December.”At 8.8°C, it is still higher than 2020 when the minimum temperature had gone down to 8.7°C on November 29. The maximum temperature meanwhile went up from 25°C on Sunday to 25.4°C on Monday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will hover between 23°C and 25°C while the minimum temperature will stay between 8°C and 11°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-8-8-c-chandigarh-sees-coldest-night-of-season-so-far-101638220829499.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal hands ₹1 cr aid to Covid warrior’s family||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday handed over a cheque of ₹1 crore to the husband of a municipal sanitation worker who died of Covid-19.“Sunita Ji was a frontline warrior working as a Swachhata Karamchari with the East MCD (East Delhi Municipal Corporation). She succumbed to death after being infected while on Covid-19 duty. She was a courageous woman who served the people of Delhi during the toughest times. She put her life on stake to protect us,” Kejriwal said after he met her family and handed over the cheque to her husband.“One cannot quantify the value of life in terms of money but I hope this assistance from our end can bring some strength to the family,” the chief minister added.The Delhi government has so far extended an amount of ₹1 crore to 18 “corona warriors”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-hands-1-cr-aid-to-covid-warrior-s-family-101638220228747.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gharuan accident: One more succumbs to injury, toll reaches four||A day after three persons, including two auto drivers, died after a rashly driven car met with an accident in front of Chandigarh University in Gharuan, Mohali, a fourth person, who was in the car, also succumbed to injuries at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on late Sunday night. The fourth victim has been identified as Bikramjit Singh, 45, a resident of Ludhiana, while the other three car occupants are critical and undergoing treatment at PGIMER. Due to their condition, police has not been able to record their statements so far. As per the police, the Verna Hyundai car, bearing registration number PB10- ER 9909, was coming at breakneck speed from Chandigarh side when it hit a road divider and ran over two auto drivers, who were sipping tea on the slip road. The car then hit an electric pole nearby, leaving the car occupants injured. One of the car occupants had died on the spot.Investigating officer, Balbir Singh said, all five occupants of the car were working in different factories of Ludhiana. The car driver, identified as Ankush Kumar, has already been booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gharuan-accident-one-more-succumbs-to-injury-toll-reaches-four-101638220529519.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP will declare chief ministerial face before anyone else: Anmol Gagan Mann||Co-president of the Aam Aadmi Party’s youth wing Anmol Gagan Mann on Monday said that AAP will declare its chief ministerial candidate before any other party. Mann, who was in town to attend a meeting called by Atam Nagar constituency in-charge Kulwant Singh Sidhu, said, “ The schools in New Delhi are now better than private institutes, similarly healthcare facilities have improved, and unconditional accident insurance has been provided. The Delhi model will be replicated in Punjab, if the AAP is voted to power,” said Mann. On sitting AAP legislators jumping ship, Mann said, “This is because the party is giving opportunity to those who have worked on grassroots levels, rather than those who remained missing after the polls.” AAP district president Suresh Goel and other senior leaders including Sharan Pal Makkar were also present. Traffic snarls The meeting, which was organised on the busy Daba Road, led to massive traffic chaos. Commuters stranded in traffic jams were seeing lifting their scooters from the pandal. “This is no place to hold a meeting and that too on a Monday. Look at the chaos it has led to!” said a girl, who was pushing a scooter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-will-declare-chief-ministerial-face-before-anyone-else-anmol-gagan-mann-101638220469529.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: 10 women in AAP’s first list of candidates for 26 seats||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday night announced its first list of 26 candidates, including 10 women, for the upcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation elections. As many as 12 wards of the total 35 in the city are reserved for women. Candidates for the remaining nine wards will be announced in the coming days, said a party official.On the late-night announcement, a senior party leader, said, “The list was ready in the morning but approval from Delho came only late at night. The local leadership immediately released the list thereafter.”“In the first list, most tickets have gone to long-time party workers. Some of the new entrants to the party, who came from Congress along with Pardeep Chhabra have also been accommodated in the list,” said a senior party leader.Even though the party released the list late at night around 10.30, the internal opposition to the candidature list immediately started to come out in open with some party members posting social media posts against the party’s decision. Some party office bearers even announced burning of effigy of party leaders on Tuesday. Another party office bearer declared he would stand as an independent candidate in the elections.This is not the first list the party announced for MC polls. On November 9, it had announced name of six candidates but withdrawn it within an hour of announcement because of opposition from different sections in the party. Later that evening it re-released the same names but instead termed them as “ward in-charges”.The names announced on Monday include: Jasvinder Kaur (ward number 1), Sukhraj Sandhu (2), Suman Amit Sharma (4), Amanpreet Kaushal (5), Satish Kumar (7), Vandana Yadav (9), Avtar Kaur (10), Omkar Singh Aulakh (11), Sandeep Dahiya (12), Kuldeep Kukki (14), Ram Chandra Yadav (15), Poonam Kumari (16), Taruna Mehta (18), Neha Mushawat (19), Rajesh Chaudhary (20), Jasvir Singh Laddi (21), Anju Katyal (22), Prem Lata (23), Yogesh Dhingra (25), Kuldeep Dalohar (26), Geeta Devi (28), Vikram Pudhir (30), Lakhvinder Singh Billu (31), Sahil Makkad (32), Harjinder Singh Bawa (34) and Sandeep Bharadwaj (35).The party is contesting the MC elections for the first time in the city. Earlier, it made two unsuccessful attempts here in the Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-10-women-in-aap-s-first-list-of-candidates-for-26-seats-101638220049276.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Toddler kidnapped, buried alive in Ludhiana: Mother had called up accused after her girl went missing||A day after a woman kidnapped the two-year-old daughter of her neighbour and buried her alive, police said the mother had called the accused after her daughter went missing. The mother of the victim said the accused, Neelam had kidnapped Dilroz around 2.15pm, while she was playing near the gate of their house. “I remember calling out to Dilroz, asking her to come inside and sleep for a while. However, when she did not respond, I went to get her, but she was nowhere to be found. One of Neelam’s sons told me that his mother had taken Dilroz on her scooter. I called Neelam, asking her to take care of Dilroz as she is used to sleeping after lunch, but Neelam said Dilroz was not with her. I kept on searching for her. Later, other children playing on the street said they had seen Dilroz with Neelam, after which we alerted the police,” said the victim’s mother, Kiran, who lost consciousness on seeing her daughter’s corpse. The police scanned CCTV cameras and saw Neelam take away Dilroz. When interrogated, the accused confessed to murder. Neelam and her parents had sold their house and were shifting to a new location. It was their last day in the house and they had shifted most of their things to the new house. Victim bludgeoned twice, reveals autopsy The postmortem report on Monday revealed the horror and pain the toddler had to endure before she finally suffocated to death. The doctors found that the accused, Neelam, had bludgeoned the victim, Dilroz, twice, before burying her in a pit. The three doctors – Dr Ripudaman, Dr Varun Saggar and Dr Gurwinder Kaur – who conducted the postmortem found two injury marks on the toddler’s head –one on the forehead, and one on the back of her head. The injuries were made with a heavy and blunt object or by smashing her head against something hard, they said, while ruling the cause of death to be suffocation. After postmortem, the body was handed over to the family who carried out the last rites. The accused was remanded two days in police custody. Kidnapped girl with intention to kill Sub-Inspector Balkar Singh said Neelam had kidnapped Dilroz with the intention to kill, but had not decided how she would go about it. “When she reached an under-construction colony in the Salem Tabri area, she found a pit in a vacant plot adjoining a field and decided to bury her.” Neelam said she had beaten up the toddler when she had cried and then had made her lie face down in the pit. She had filled the pit with soil and returned home. The victim’s grandfather, Shaminder Singh, said he had scolded the accused’s sons for creating a ruckus in the street, and she had nursed a grudge against him since the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/toddler-kidnapped-buried-alive-in-ludhiana-mother-had-called-up-accused-after-her-girl-went-missing-101638219809871.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punwire multi-crore scam: Three officials of erstwhile firm sentenced to two-year jail||In the two-decade old Punjab Wireless Limited (Punwire) multi-crore scam, a special judicial magistrate of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Mohali, sentenced three former employees of the firm to two-year rigorous imprisonment, along with a fine of ₹7,000 each.They have been identified as former Punwire executive director Ved Prakash, former assistant general manager Ashok Jerath and former statutory auditor NK Bhambri. Established in 1975, Punwire, a firm with expertise in wireless communication technology, had remained a profit-making company for over 20 years, and had shot to fame after setting up a communication link between Dakshin Gangotri (Antarctica) and New Delhi. Its operations had come to a grinding halt in 1999 after the scam was unearthed. In July 2000, it was locked for liquidation and in February 2001, the final orders for winding up were passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court. In October 2002, acting on the directions of the Supreme Court, the CBI had registered the instant on the allegations of large-scale embezzlement of funds in the firm. Accordingly, the CBI took over 20 FIRs of Mohali police station for investigation. The present case was a reproduction of an FIR registered in 2001, earlier registered at Mohali police station. It was alleged in the said FIR that Punwire had gone into liquidation because of large-scale cheating and embezzlement of funds by its own officials and also because of mismanagement in the company. It was further alleged that executive director Ved Prakash, who was authorised to issue cheques up to the limit of ₹2 lakh only, had issued cheques beyond the said limit to creditors. The credit amount had run into around ₹132.5 crore. It was stated that the trio were fully aware of the precarious financial condition of the company at the time of issuing the cheques and the act put the company under huge financial liability and multifarious litigations due to instances of cheque bounce. After investigation, a chargesheet was filed on August 29, 2008 and the charges were framed on November 18, 2010. The trial court found them guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punwire-multi-crore-scam-three-officials-of-erstwhile-firm-sentenced-to-two-year-jail-101638219209278.html
30-11-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman booked for duping husband on pretext of taking him to Canada||A woman from Moga and her family members have been booked for duping her husband on the pretext of taking him to Canada with her. The accused have been identified as Taqdeer Kaur, of Chand Nava village, Moga; her father Manjit Singh, mother Jasvir Kaur and another relative Dilbag Singh of Chaminda village, Ludhiana. Harjit Singh of Bhattian village, Khanna, stated in his complaint that Taqdeer and her family told him that she would take him to Canada on a spouse visa if he bore her expenses.Harjit said that he had spent ₹11 lakh on arranging Taqdeer’s visa and air ticket. They had solemnised the marriage on August 5, 2018, and 11 days after that, she left for Canada. However, one month after reaching there, she stopped talking to him and rarely attended his calls. She also blocked him on social networking sites.He alleged that according to their mutual agreement, the accused had agreed to arrange a spouse visa for him, but she did not. Later, she asked him to pay ₹8.50 lakh more.He filed a complaint with the police on June 11, 2021. ASI Jagtar Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR has been lodged after investigation under Sections 420, 406 and 120B of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-booked-for-duping-husband-on-pretext-of-taking-him-to-canada-101638218069493.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Health department to appoint nodal officers for Chandigarh MC elections||The director health services (DHS), Chandigarh, will appoint one nodal officer with each of the returning officers for the municipal corporation (MC) elections, the UT health secretary Yashpal Garg directed on Monday.“The assigned nodal officers should ensure that all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour guidelines are being followed during the elections besides providing required medical assistance in case of emergency. Protocols like screening of residents before entering polling booths or arranging medical facilities like ambulances and doctors at the spots will also be followed,” Garg said.A review meeting was conducted by the health secretary on Monday to discuss the emergent issues, especially the new variant of concern ‘omicron’ of Covid-19. During the meeting, Garg directed the authorities from GMSH-16, GMCH-32 and dispensaries to ensure that all out-patient department (OPD) patients are tested for Covid-19, even if they are asymptomatic and fully vaccinated.“In case of hospital admission, all patients will be subjected to rapid antigen test (RAT) and RT-PCR tests. In case of OPD, all patients have to undergo RAT test while all symptomatic patients must also take RT-PCR test. In case of asymptomatic patients also, the doctor concerned may insist for RTPCR test in addition to RAT. In case of emergency and serious patients, the doctor may immediately provide the treatment/consultation and get the Covid test done at a later stage,” the order read.Garg further said, “The government hospitals in Chandigarh are in the state of readiness with sufficient number of oxygenated beds and ventilator beds.”The UT also has three Mini Covid care centres, which are in the state of temporary closure but can be revived with the notice of just two or three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/health-department-to-appoint-nodal-officers-for-chandigarh-mc-elections-101638217949294.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport: International passengers to undergo RT-PCR test on arrival||With the Omicron variant of Covid-19 spreading across the world, Chandigarh international airport has started conducting RT-PCR tests of all passengers arriving from 12 high-risk countries —UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel. In addition to this, passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days and another test on the eight day. If found negative, they will have to be on self-health monitoring for the next seven days and if tested positive for the new variant, strict isolation and treatment protocol is to be followed till being tested negative.In September this year, Chandigarh International Airport had established an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) lab on the airport premises. The lab provides travellers their Covid-19 test results in less than 30 minutes. Each test will cost ₹1,727. The lab has been set up in line with the guidelines issued by the UAE government, which include mandatory testing of all passengers who need to present their report on arrival.Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said, “We are following the government of India’s instructions. At present, we have only one international flight from Sharjah. We will be conducting the RT-PCR test of all international passengers coming from high-risk countries. As far as the passengers from low-risk countries are concerned, we will conduct an RT-PCR test of 5% passengers only. Those testing positive will be sent to designated Covid centres.”Nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said, “Our health teams are conducting tests of all passengers of Sharjah flight while other international passengers are screened by the airport authority.”In the winter schedule (from October 31 to March 27, 2022), the number of flights operating from the Chandigarh International Airport has gone up to 43, which is the same as the pre-pandemic times. However, the Dubai flight has not been listed in the schedule, leaving just one international destination- Sharjah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-international-passengers-to-undergo-rt-pcr-test-on-arrival-101638217709189.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||NC will fight alone for Article 370 if Congress not on board: Omar||National Conference vice-president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday took a swipe at senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad for giving up the fight for restoration of Article 370. With political parties getting into election mode, Omar raked up Article 370 to strike an emotional chord with the people in Kishtwar. Addressing a public rally at Kishtwar, Omar said, “Article 370 was the legacy of the Congress. I got sad today after reading a news report wherein Azad sahib, who remained chief minister of J&K, said at a rally in Kashmir that talking about Article 370 is useless and that it won’t return.” “It came into existence because of the first PM Jawahar Lal Nehru. If the Congress can’t protect and stand up for its own legacy, then what would it do with the people and their issues,” he asked. “The hearing hasn’t yet started and they (Congress) have already given up. Have you decided before the Supreme Court takes a decision on the matter?” he said. The former chief minister said, “Our identity, survival, jobs, future of youth and land… everything is related to Article 370.” “They (Congress) are not ready to fight the battle but we will fight it alone. We were told that Article 370 was hollow (by the BJP). Had it been so, then why they removed it?” he asked. ‘Good that Azad accepted the mistake of Nehru’Reacting to Omar’s speech at Kishtwar, former deputy chief minister and BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said, “When they (the NC, the PDP and the Congress) were in governments, we have seen that how stone pelting, pro-Pak stand, terrorism, corruption and dynastic politics plagued the state. It is good to see that Ghulam Nabi Azad has realised and accepted the mistake of Nehru.” “They want statehood, which the BJP government has assured in the Parliament, but Article 370 won’t return till doomsday. People got the much-needed relief following its abrogation. They (Omar and Mehbooba) are giving such statements to propel their political fortunes but it is not going to help them because they are on a sticky wicket,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nc-will-fight-alone-for-article-370-if-congress-not-on-board-omar-101638217529276.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||South Africa returnee, his two contacts test Covid positive in Chandigarh, Omicron variant not ascertained yet||A 39-year-old man, who returned from South Africa on November 21, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, UT health officials said while adding that it is yet to be ascertained if the man is positive for the new ‘Omicron’ variant of the virus.The man, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 36, had tested RT-PCR negative on his arrival at the airport. After that, he was quarantined at his residence and re-tested on Monday, when the reports came out to be positive. Besides the man, his wife and domestic help have also tested positive for Covid-19 while two of his family members tested negative. Test report of one of his family members is still awaited.“As per protocol, positive patients are being shifted to an institutional quarantine facility at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. Also, samples of the positive patients will be sent for whole genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, to find out if the variant or variant of concern (VoC) is present,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.“The UT health department is tracing the contacts of the family. Since it is not clear if this is a new variant case, there is nothing to be worried about. People must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated at the earliest,”said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services Chandigarh. The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday warned that the risk related to Omicron – the new variant of Covid-19 – is “very high”. The global health body said that the B.1.1.529 strain, first found in South Africa, is “highly divergent” and is likely to spread internationally at a very high speed and could possibly have severe consequences.11 new infections in tricity, active cases rise to 138On Monday, 11 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity. As many as eight cases were reported from Chandigarh, two from Panchkula and one from Mohali. But no Covid death was reported from any of the three jurisdictions. Tricity’s active cases tally now stands at 138, with 58 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 49 in Mohali, and 31 in Panchkula.UT requests religious leaders to support Covid vaccination driveIn view of the increasing Covid count, the UT health department on Monday requested religious leaders support the vaccination drive. Health officials met Maulana Mohd Ajmal Khan, Imam, Mosque at Sector-20, Chandigarh; and Father Kajus, Father James and Father Tharthus, Church at Sector-19, and planned to set up vaccination camps at the mosque and church. All religious leaders appreciated the efforts and agreed to encourage the people for early vaccination. 75% Ambala villages now fully vaccinated Meanwhile, Ambala’s nodal officer for Covid vaccination, Dr Sunidhi Karol said as many as 389 villages out of 524 in Ambala are now fully vaccinated, while residents of 97% villages (506) have received one dose. Citing fresh figures as per the Cowin portal, she said 80% of the beneficiaries (6,80,037) are now fully vaccinated and over 104% have received a single dose. The total eligible population of the district is 8,50,360.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/south-africa-returnee-his-two-contacts-test-covid-positive-in-chandigarh-omicron-variant-not-ascertained-yet-101638217410349.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana freezes appointments of lambardars||The Haryana government has frozen the appointments of lambardars and sarbarah lambardars with immediate effect.The Haryana financial commissioner, revenue and additional chief secretary to the revenue department of Haryana government has issued a notification on November 23 to all divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and director land records for strict compliance of the orders.As per the letter, the matter regarding the appointments of lambardars and sarbarah lambardars in state is reviewed by the government and it has been decided that all fresh appointments may be frozen in state till further orders.The orders will apply to all appointments which are presently under consideration of the competent authorities but where the appointment has not been made till the issuance of this order.The officials are tight-lipped over the issue and are reluctant to make any comments but a senior official, pleading anonymity, said the government has frozen further appointments as they are considering making their services more useful and an assessment of the requirement of lambaradars and their duties in the modern circumstances is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-freezes-appointments-of-lambardars-101638217409087.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Govt prepared for rise in cases, says Sisodia after DDMA meet||Amid fears posed by a new variant of the coronavirus, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the state was prepared to tackle any rise in Covid-19 infections, after a meeting of the state disaster management authority.Also Read | DDMA to meet on Monday to act against Covid variant: CMAll passengers arriving in Delhi from “at-risk” countries, including all of Europe, will need to take an RT-PCR test when they arrive at the airport and will have to quarantine at home for at least eight days even if their samples return negative, senior state officials said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting was chaired by Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal.The state health department was directed to ensure adequate availability of beds, medicines and oxygen to tackle any exigencies.“There is uncertainty over the spread and impact of the new coronavirus variant in the world, but the Union government has stressed that there will be no negligence in preparations and the situation will be monitored. The Delhi government is ready to deal with the situation in case Covid cases rise in the city,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters after the meeting.Also Read | Manish Sisodia warns Delhi residents on new covid variant, OmicronBaijal’s office said every positive sample will be sent for genome sequencing checks.“It was decided to conduct 100% RT-PCR testing of passengers from high-risk countries, followed by genome sequencing of the positive cases and mandatory isolation/quarantine as per the guidelines laid down by the Government of India,” Baijal’s office said in a statement after the meeting.At the same time, the Delhi government was directed to start arranging for institutional quarantine centres where passengers who test positive will be sent.Officials said district magistrates began arranging such facilities at hospitals and hotels, in coordination with the state health department. Contacts of positive travellers will also be kept under strict surveillance, said officials aware of the matter.The countries assigned at risk by the government are - South Africa, China, the United Kingdom, European countries, Bangladesh, Brazil, Botswana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel.Every passenger arriving in Delhi from these countries will have to mention their destination address in detail, including the district and lane, a senior official present in the DDMA meeting said on condition of anonymity.Monday’s high-level meeting was also attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who is the DDMA vice-chair.On Sunday, one international traveller tested positive for Covid-19. The person’s samples have been sent for sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, which sequences the highest number of genomes from Delhi. The man, who arrived from Germany, has been admitted to Medanta hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-prepared-for-rise-in-cases-says-sisodia-after-ddma-meet-101638216935018.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man gets death penalty for rape, murder of minor girl||A local court in Jhajjar on Monday awarded death penalty to a man identified as Vinod alias Munna, 28, for abducting, raping and murdering the five-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh over 11 months ago.As per information, the culprit had kidnapped the girl from her rented house in Jhajjar and taken her to his house on the intervening night of December 20 and 21 where he raped and murdered her.The victim’s father had informed the police which had rushed to the spot and burst open the main door of the house. Police found the girl’s body and the accused was in an inebriated state.Following this, a case under Section 376 AB (committing rape of a girl under twelve years of age), 302 (murder), and 365 (kidnapping any person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the POCSO Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-gets-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-of-minor-girl-101638217229062.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||3 National Conference MPs protest outside Parliament||Three National Conference lawmakers on Monday held a protest outside the Parliament demanding revocation of decisions taken on August 5, 2019 and an impartial probe into Hyderpora, Rambagh and Lawaypora killings.Carrying placards, the MPs led by party president Farooq Abdullah demanded investigation into the recent killings in Srinagar and rollback of decisions taken in August 2019. “MPs Dr Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone & Hassnain Masoodi staged a protest in front of Gandhi Statue in Parliament lawns demanding revocation of Aug 5, 2019 decisions like the contentious farm laws & impartial judicial probe into the Hyderpora, Rambagh and Laway Pora Shoot-outs (sic),” the NC tweeted. The NC is the only regional party of the Jammu and Kashmir that has its members in the Parliament. “They also gave a short attention notice under Rule No. 193 to discuss the prevailing situation in J&K. Masoodi in his individual capacity also gave a calling attention notice for discussion on Hyderpora shootout,” the NC handle further tweeted. Srinagar MP Abdullah has already written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking judicial probe into the killing of civilians during Hyderpora operation. ‘J&K will be punished for failures of Centre, local admn’Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday said J&K will be punished for the failures of the Union government and the local administration.The NC vice-president was reacting on the statement of BJP state general secretary Ashok Koul that statehood will be given to J&K only after the return of normalcy. “So the people of J&K will be punished, by having our statehood with held, because of the collective failure of the Union Government & the J&K administration? They fail to protect people, they fail to manage the security situation & the rest of us are punished. What an idea sir ji!,” said Omar in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-national-conference-mps-protest-outside-parliament-101638217109027.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure students are not barred from taking exams: HC to Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to ensure that students are not barred by private schools from taking exams due to non-payment of school fee.The order came on plea of the Students Parents Welfare Group, Kaithal, which had alleged that datesheet for the forthcoming examination has been released and their wards are not being permitted to take the said exam.The bench of justice Sudhir Mittal asked the state’s counsel to get instructions on the issue and adjourned the case for December 16.“If the allegation is found to be correct, the authorities concerned will ensure that no student is barred from taking any forthcoming examination on account of a dispute regarding fees,” the court stated.Their lawyer Sunil Polist said the issue before the court was about demand of un-notified fee from school children in schools against which, the education department was approached.But it was stated before the court that the government is yet to deice complaint of the parents. The schools in question are OSDAV Public School, OSDAV Police Public School, Silver Oak International School, and Silver Oak Public School, all in Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-students-are-not-barred-from-taking-exams-hc-to-haryana-101638216989171.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal woman held for plotting husband’s murder with aide||Five days after 34-year-old Amandeep was found murdered with his throat slit in the fields near Taraori town of Karnal district, police have arrested his wife and two others on murder charges.Police said accused Rupinder Kaur alias Rimpy and her aide Harshpal Singh hatched the conspiracy to kill Amandeep with the help of Harshpal’s friends.CIA-II in-charge Mohan Lal said Rupinder had an affair with Harshpal since before marriage. Harshpal, who was also married, used to visit the couple.During preliminary investigation, it was found that Rimpy and Harshpal wanted to get married so they planned to kill Amandeep.Harshdeep contacted his two friends Manish Kumar alias Manni and Kunal to kill Amandeep. Amandeep was addicted to opium and on November 24, Harshdeep called Amandeep to Taraori on pretext of giving him opium. The investigators said the accused hit Amandeep with a hammer thrice and killed him with a knife.The accused have been booked on murder charges under the IPC. Rimpy, Harshdeep and Kunal have been arrested and a manhunt is on to arrest Manni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-woman-held-for-plotting-husband-s-murder-with-aide-101638216870175.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||J&K HC judge tests positive for Covid, courtroom sealed||A judge of the Jammu and Kashmir high court was tested positive for Covid on Monday. Officials said he had returned from Srinagar on Friday and was attending cases on Monday. Nearly 15 members of his staff are also being tested, they added. The courtroom has been sealed. Meanwhile, J&K reported 150 fresh infections and one death on Monday. Of the total cases, 122 were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 28 infections. The death was reported from Kashmir division. Kashmir reported highest 48 cases in Srinagar followed by 23 cases in Baramulla and 16 in Budgam. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 560 followed by Baramulla and Jammu with 348 and 139 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 181 with active cases reaching 1,626. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,30,579 and the recovery rate was 98.37%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have mounted to 3,36,681 and the death toll stands at 4,476Officials said 44,236 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. 90 cases recorded in HimachalHimachal Pradesh recorded 90 fresh Covid infections on Monday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,093. No fatality was reported today and the death toll remains 3,830. The highest of 25 cases were reported from Kanga, 20 each from Mandi and Shimla, 14 from Hamirpur, five from Una, three from Chamba, two from Solan and one from Bilaspur. The active cases climbed up to 824 while the recoveries have reached 2,22,422 after 61 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst-hit among all 12 districts logging 51,879 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,883 cases and Shimla with 27,889 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-hc-judge-tests-positive-for-covid-courtroom-sealed-101638216809412.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three members of Neeraj Bawana gang held with illegal weapons, bulletproof vehicle||Three members of Neeraj Bawana gang were caught with a bulletproof SUV and a cache of arms by the Karnal police from Assandh block in district.According to Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia, the police have recovered two pistols, two magazines and 66 live cartridges from possession of the accused.The accused have been identified as Amit Kumar, of Sonepat, Arvind Singh, of Panipat, and Amandeep, of Ramrai village in Jind.Ramphal, in-charge of special staff Assandh, said police got a tip off about smuggling of arms on Ballha-Assandh road. Acting on the information, police managed to arrest the accused from a checkpost near Salwan village late on Sunday and recovered illegal weapons from their possession.Police said during the interrogation, the accused admitted that they were associated with the Neeraj Bawana gang and were active in Delhi-NCR region from the past few days. They told the police that they had brought the weapons from Uttar Pradesh.As per preliminary investigation, accused Arvind has a criminal history as he was facing cases under the Arms Act.He said a case has been registered against them under the Arms Act at the Assandh police station. The accused were produced before the court which sent them to three-day police remand and further investigation is on, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-members-of-neeraj-bawana-gang-held-with-illegal-weapons-bulletproof-vehicle-101638216690208.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 22 fresh Covid cases; Hoshiarpur village declared containment zone||Punjab on Monday witnessed 22 fresh Covid cases and one virus-related death, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department. State’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.14%, the bulletin said. With fresh cases, state’s patient tally has reached 603,258, it said. One Covid-related death was reported in Hoshiarpur district. The number of active cases in the state is 329. Among the fresh cases, five were recorded in Pathankot and four each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur districts. With recovery of 28 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,330, it said. Till now, 16,599 people have lost their lives due to the virus. Samples of all 556 students taken after 33 test positive Palahar village in Talwara block of Hoshiarpur district has been declared red containment zone after the number of Covid-19 cases at the government senior secondary school rose to 33. The health authorities revealed that samples of all 556 students and teachers had been collected and sent for testing. Mukerian sub divisional magistrate Navneet Kaur Bal said the school would remain closed till all the samples are negative. The school was shut on Thursday after 13 students tested positive for Covid. District epidemiologist DP Singh said that samples of possible contacts of the infected students had also been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-22-fresh-covid-cases-hoshiarpur-village-declared-containment-zone-101638216689154.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||New SGPC president Harjinder Dhami is a low-key leader with strong Panthic credentials||Harjinder Singh Dhami (65), who on Monday was elected as the new president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), started activism with the All India Sikh Students’ Federation (AISSF) and has a decades-long association with the Sikh shrine body. The low-profile leader, who is known for humility, served as SGPC general secretary when Gobind Singh Longowal was at the helm of the management committee. Last year, he was appointed by the general house as honorary chief secretary of the SGPC.Hailing from Piplanwala village in Hoshiarpur district, Dhami, a senior lawyer, became an SGPC member for the first time in 1996 from the Sham Churasi constituency and has been a member since. He was a close confidant of late Gurcharan Singh Tohra who remained SGPC president for 25 years. He supported Tohra during a feud between the latter and the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in 1999. Tohra and Badal buried the hatchet in 2003, before the death of the former a year later. Satbir Singh, former SGPC secretary and currently personal secretary to Dhami, said, “As a lawyer, he has fought the cases of Sikh militants in various courts. As an AISSF activist in the 1980s he took part in a morcha against the emergency imposed by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi. Then he served in the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on various district-level posts.” He added, “Though the SGPC chief secretary’s is a paid job, he did not draw any salary.” Dhami, who is the legal counsel of the Badal family in a case of alleged forgery of the constitution of the Akali Dal, secured bail to Sukhbir Singh Badal and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema.Dal Khalsa leader Harcharanjit Singh Dhami said, “During militancy, he fought cases of Sikh militants free of cost. He got many militants released from jails.” He was among the SGPC functionaries who honoured Jugraj Singh, a key accused in the January 26 Red Fort violence on July 1 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-sgpc-president-harjinder-dhami-is-a-low-key-leader-with-strong-panthic-credentials-101638216509679.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Former Palampur MLA Shiv Kumar passes away at 83||Former MLA from Palampur and a social worker, Shiv Kumar, passed away on Monday at a private hospital in Chandigarh after prolonged illness. He was 83. Kumar had won from Palampur assembly constituency in a byelection in 1990 after former chief minister Shanta Kumar quit the seat to represent Sulah assembly segment. He represented Palampur till 1992. He had lost the 1993 assembly elections. Kumar was the founder of Rotary Eye Hospital, Maranda near Palampur, an old-age home and several schools. Expressing grief over the demise of Kumar, former chief minister Shanta Kumar said it was end of an era in the area of social work in Palampur and Himachal Pradesh. Lok Sabha MP from Kangra Kishan Kapoor and Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami have also condoled the demise of Kumar. Pak teen booked for illegal entering India
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farm unions give ultimatum to Centre to accept pending demands by today||Punjab’s 32 farm unions held a meeting at Singhu border on Monday and gave an ultimatum to the Union government to accept their pending six demands by Tuesday evening or they “will be forced to take a big decision on December 1”.The farmers welcomed the Centre’s move of passing farm laws repeal bill in both the Houses of the Parliament.BKU (Sidhupur) state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said they conducted a meeting and have given an ultimatum to the Union government to accept their demands, which were sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an open letter, by Tuesday evening.“We have called an emergency meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders on December 1 ahead of our scheduled December 4 meeting to take decision on the agitation. The government should accept our demands which include a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP), amendment in the Electricity Act, compensation to deceased farmers’ families and job to their next of kin, revocation of FIRs registered during the agitation, and strict action against the Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, by Tuesday evening,” he added.Dallewal said the government should not remain in misconception that the protesters are going back after the three farm laws were repealed through a bill in the Parliament.“After President Ram Nath Kovind signed off on the farm laws repeal legislation, we will ask the government to accept our other demands. The ball is in the government’s court whether they want to call off this agitation or continue it. Farmers of the entire country want a legal guarantee on MSP, not just Punjab farmers,” Dallewal added.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said they are not fully satisfied with the Union government as six demands are yet to be met.“Farmers from Haryana, Punjab and other states will leave Delhi borders after all their demands are accepted. We are in no mood to leave the borders until all our demands are accepted,” he added.BKU state youth president Ravi Azad said they will follow the SKM’s decision after their meeting on December 1.“The government’s only option is to accept all our demands and end this agitation. The BJP-JJP leaders were claiming that the MSP will be continued, so there should not be any problem in giving a legal guarantee,” he added.Meanwhile, JJP general secretary Digvijay Singh Chautala, younger brother of Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, said the government should revoke all cases registered against farmers during the agitation.“It took one year to solve the farmers’ issues but we are glad that it has been resolved. The government should include SKM leaders in a committee to decide an MSP policy and accept their other demands as well,” he said while interacting with the media in Bahadurgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farm-unions-give-ultimatum-to-centre-to-accept-pending-demands-by-today-101638216457705.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ensuring every area of HP gets benefit of development schemes: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh government is ensuring that every section of the society and every area of the state get benefits of the welfare and development schemes, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.He was addressing a public meeting after inaugurating and laying foundation stones of 96 development projects worth ₹ 381 crore in Dharampur assembly constituency of Mandi district. He said even during the pandemic, projects worth ₹4,500 crore were launched in about 42 Vidhan Sabha areas of the state. He said that Congress leaders did nothing in this crisis and even tried to politicise this sensitive issue. Jai Ram said the state was committed to providing fully functional water tap to every household by mid of next year. He also announced a PWD circle at Dharampur, revamp of community health centre in Mandap to a 50 bed hospital, upgrade of veterinary dispensary in Seoh to a hospital, opening of PHC at Daraba, and opening of labour office and employment exchange at Dharampur. He also announced to start a luxury bus service between Dharampur and Delhi, besides upgrade of three PHCs to CHCs and starting of science classes in two government senior secondary schools besides construction of helipad at Sandhol and Tanihar. Jal shakti and horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur said that Dharampur has witnessed unprecedented development during the last four years credit of which goes to Jai Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensuring-every-area-of-hp-gets-benefit-of-development-schemes-jai-ram-101638216329075.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption in recruitments: Lapses deliberate to shield the accused, alleges Surjewala||Pointing out flaws in the investigation conducted by the Haryana Vigilance Bureau (VB) in the corruption case pertaining to selections of dental surgeons by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday alleged that lapses were deliberate to shield the accused and cover up the job scam.The former Haryana minister addressing a press conference said documents produced by the VB in court showed that “zero recovery” of documents has been made from the accused.Quoting a November 23 order of the court of Panchkula chief judicial magistrate (CJM), the Congress leader said on November 19, the CJM’s court had sent HPSC deputy secretary Anil Nagar to police custody for four days to make recovery of documents from Rohtak district and the HPSC office in Panchkula.The police custody was granted by the court on an application by the vigilance bureau.“However, when the court asked for daily diary report of the local police station regarding visit of the investigating officer (IO) along with the accused to Rohtak district, the IO expressed his inability to furnish the same,” he said.“Similarly, police remand was granted by the court to other two accused Ashwani Sharma and Naveen on November 22 on pretext that documents have to be recovered from Solan district in Himachal Pradesh. However, the IO again failed to furnish the daily diary report entries of the local police station,” the Congress leader said, quoting the court order.Reading from the court order, Surjewala said on the contrary, the IO said though he is the head of the SIT constituted to investigate the offence, another IO will be able to explain why the accused were not taken to Rohtak and Solan.The Congress leader said the court observed that the plea of the defence counsel that the IO is not serious regarding recovery of articles and only interested in keeping the accused in custody attains gravity.Surjewala said the state government needs to answer whether the vigilance bureau is trying to cover up the whole issue by enacting a drama in the name of investigation against HPSC deputy secretary Anil Nagar and two other accused Ashwini Sharma and Naveen.He also questioned as to why and how the contract for online application portal, scanning, etc was again given to Safedot E-Solution Pvt Ltd by the HPSC despite the fact that this company was ousted in 2020 by the previous HPSC chairman.“The question is under what circumstances and at whose behest this ousted company was again given the job of recruitments by HPSC. Why the HPSC chairman and members have not been questioned by the VB in this regard?” he asked.A HPSC spokesperson said the application portal was managed by TCS. “Now, the work has been given to another company through a tendering process. The scanning work is confidential and looked after by either the secretary or the deputy secretary. For dental surgeon and HCS exam, the scanning work was done in the presence of a committee headed by the deputy secretary. We are not aware of the agency entrusted with the job,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-in-recruitments-lapses-deliberate-to-shield-the-accused-alleges-surjewala-101638216210613.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Bikram Majithia, Jagir Kaur declared Akali nominees from Majitha, Bholath||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced the candidature of party MLA Bikram Singh Majithia from Majitha and former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur from the Bholath constituency for the upcoming assembly elections to be held in early 2022. With this, the party has announced candidates from a total of 89 segments. As per the pre-poll arrangement, the SAD is contesting from 97 seats while its coalition partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is fielding candidates from 20 segments. Now, the SAD has to announce candidates on eight more seats. The BSP has also announced candidates from at least a dozen assembly segments. Majithia, a three-time MLA from the Majitha constituency, held key portfolios in the SAD-led governments from 2007 to 2017. Jagir Kaur, a two-time MLA, was moved out of the SGPC in the annual polls of office-bearers on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bikram-majithia-jagir-kaur-declared-akali-nominees-from-majitha-bholath-101638216149194.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||New Covid variant: Health dept issues advisory for international fliers visiting Punjab||In the wake of the Union health ministry cautioning about new Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Punjab health department has issued an advisory asking frequent international travellers and NRIs visiting Punjab to go through mandatory coronavirus test.If tested positive, the passengers will have to go through a genome sequencing test to ensure that they are not suffering from the new virus variant, the advisory says.In a letter, the health department has asked all the civil surgeons, vice-chancellors of medical and animal husbandry universities, medical colleges and private testing laboratories to share the data on such patients.“If any international traveller comes to your institution or laboratory and is found corona positive, a sample should be sent immediately to the Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, for genome-sequencing test,” the letter reads.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the orders were received on Monday.The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday had declared Omicron a “variant of concern”, placing the new strain into the most troubling category of Covid variants, along with Delta.The Union government is planning tightened travel rules and checks for visitors, with cases emerging in Botswana, Italy, Hong Kong, Australia, Belgium, United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany, Canada, Israel and the Czech Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-covid-variant-health-dept-issues-advisory-for-international-fliers-visiting-punjab-101638215968893.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will form next govt in Punjab with BJP, Akali faction: Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said his party will form the next government in the state with the support of BJP and Sukhdev Dhindsa-led Akali faction. He was talking to mediapersons after his meeting with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, which he called “courtesy visit”. “There was no political development. I had a very nice cup of coffee with the chief minister (Khattar),” said the former Punjab CM. When asked whether “big faces” will join his party Punjab Lok Congress ahead of the assembly elections, he said, “Wait for the time. Everything is going fine. People are very upbeat and our membership drive is going good. God willing, we and with our seat adjustment with the BJP and SAD Sanyukt, we will form the government,” he said. Amarinder had quit the Congress following his resignation as the Punjab CM after a bitter power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was joined by some cabinet ministers. His meeting with Khattar came on a day when a bill to repeal the three contentious laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed by Parliament. In the photographs of their meeting released by the Haryana government, Khattar is seen receiving Amarinder Singh with a warm hug. Asked if he will meet BJP leaders for a seat-sharing arrangement for the Punjab elections, the former Punjab CM said he will go to Delhi and certainly call on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-form-next-govt-in-punjab-with-bjp-akali-faction-amarinder-101638215849313.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi gives nod to fill 10,880 vacant posts in education department||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday gave approval to fill 10,880 vacant posts in the state education department. Presiding over a meeting of various departments, the CM termed education as the core sector which would be streamlined. He also directed to create 2,000 posts of physical education teachers in primary schools. The CM advocated for formation of a cluster in every village with a primary, middle and the high school availing the services of a single physical education trainer. He asked the school education department to actively consider the proposal. Channi also discussed issues related to various unions and said the department must examine their demand and take up the matter with the finance department. Accepting the long-pending demand of around 1,000 headmasters and teachers recruited under the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA), the CM directed the finance department to release the state’s share of salaries which were slashed due to ceiling by the central government in 2016. It will cost ₹3.2 crore to the state exchequer. In another decision, the CM gave the go-ahead for the recruitment of nearly 3,400 posts in the health department to further strengthen the healthcare system. Channi directed that the proposal on the inclusion of Asha and other health workers in the Ayushman Bharat scheme be brought up in the cabinet meeting. He announced to lay the foundation stones of medical colleges in Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur besides setting up a new medical college in Sangrur with 100% state funding. Deputy chief minister OP Soni, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, medical education minister Raj Kumar Verka and education minister Pargat Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-gives-nod-to-fill-10-880-vacant-posts-in-education-department-101638215732152.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Badal loyalist Harjinder Singh Dhami elected SGPC chief||Once a protégé of Akali bigwig and former SGPC president late Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Harjinder Singh Dhami, 65, on Monday took over the reins of the apex gurdwara body, replacing Jagir Kaur. The annual election was held at Teja Singh Samundri Hall here. Dhami had supported Tohra during latter’s feud with the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, which was described as “clash of Titans”, in 1999. Tohra and Badal buried the hatchet in 2003 and the former died in 2004. Now, Dhami, a qualified lawyer, is considered a loyalist of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Once again, the chief of the apex gurdwara body is from Punjab’s Doaba region. Dhami is an SGPC member from Sham Chaurasi segment and hails from Piplan Wala village in Hoshiarpur district. Jagir Kaur belongs to Begowal town in Kapurthala district of Doaba region. On the eve of the annual poll session, the gurdwara body members owing allegiance to the SAD, which enjoys the majority in the House, had authorised party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to choose the president and other office-bearers. He sent the names to the House on Monday for its formal approval. Of the 162 SGPC members, 142 attended Monday’s session. Outgoing SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhittewad proposed the name of Dhami for approval of the House, but members from the opposition, including Balwinder Singh Bains and Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, demanded polling through a secret ballot by fielding their candidate, Mithu Singh Kahne Ke. Dhami secured 122 votes while Kahne Ke bagged only 19. Panthic face Panjoli elected gen secy The post of general secretary, the second most powerful seat in the gurdwara body, went to Karnail Singh Panjoli who was also a protégé of Tohra and is reportedly close to Sikh hardliners. Once a critic of the Badals, Panjoli has also been an executive member earlier. Before joining the SAD, he had contested the Punjab assembly elections from Rajpura as a Dal Khalsa candidate. Analysts say Sukhbir may have given Panjoli the key post keeping his Panthic credentials in mind as assembly polls are round the corner. Panjoli, too, won the post through ballot. Sukhbir’s close aide and SGPC member from Haryana Raghujit Singh Virk could again secure a place among the office-bearers as senior vice-president, while the post of junior vice-president went to Principal Surinder Singh, an SGPC member from SC community. Both these office-bearers were elected unanimously. Oppn outcry over executive panel representation The poll session also witnessed uproar from opposition members who wanted their two members to be inducted in the 11-member executive committee, but the newly elected president declined their demand, saying only 19 votes were cast in their favour and as per the calculation, the opposition deserved one-member representation. There was exchange of heated arguments. The opposition got only a single representation in Baba Gurpreet Singh Randhawe Wale and members walked out of the session in protest. “It is unfortunate that instead of discussion, the atmosphere was deliberately spoiled by the opposition,” Dhami said later. Other executive committee members are: Surjit Singh Kang, Sarwan Singh Kular, Surjeet Singh Garhi, Jarnail Singh Dogranwala, Balwinder Singh Vain Puin, Harjap Singh Sultanwind, Gurinderpal Singh Gora, Amarjit Singh Bandala, Gurpreet Kaur and Jodh Singh Samra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-loyalist-harjinder-singh-dhami-elected-sgpc-chief-101638215373595.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||High court adjourns cases listed in December for May-July next year||The Punjab and Haryana high court has adjourned cases listed in December for hearing between May and July next year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. An official said the decision to adjourn the cases was taken on the basis of the government’s advisories and opinion of medical and administrative experts and to ensure safety of judges, staff and litigants.The official, however, said the cases of anticipatory bails, regular bails and protection to life and liberty and premature release etc, irrespective of the year of registration, won’t be adjourned and would be taken up on already fixed date. The cases filed in 2021 and listed in “urgent category” also won’t be adjourned. The cases in which advancing of hearing was allowed this year also won’t be adjourned, the official said adding that the cases instituted after July 1, 2021, will also not be adjourned. The official further added that in case of urgency a litigant can move an application for advancing the hearing in already filed cases. Interim orders passed also would stand extended in adjourned matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-adjourns-cases-listed-in-december-for-may-july-next-year-101638215369338.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||LPAI spending ₹42 crore to upgrade ICP Attari, strengthen security at border||With a view to strengthening security at the international border and upgrade the integrated check-post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Afghanistan and Pakistan, the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) is spending ₹42 crore on development works.Among the works undertaken are building patrolling tracks and residential plots for the Border Security Force (BSF), installation of solar panels on the cargo godown, the cargo terminal and the jatha shed, repair of the road leading to the trade gate, construction of paved parking, air-conditioning of the passenger terminal. They are expected to be completed by March 2022. The officials said some of the projects are expected to be inaugurated on the occasion of the Republic Day. The ICP also facilitates the movement of passengers from India to Pakistan and vice versa. The construction work of the residential building for the BSF is 90% complete. The ₹22 crore project, which comprises the officers’ block, women’s block and jawans’ barracks, will be completed before December 15 this year, said ICP manager Sukhdev Singh. Those BSF jawans tasked with the security of the ICP and the joint check-post (JCP), which hosts beating the retreat ceremony, will stay in the residential building once completed. Presently, these jawans have been staying at the BSF’s Khasa headquarters, around 20 kms from the Attari border.Sukhdev Singh said 65% construction work of the patrolling tracks, which are being constructed along the perimeter wall of the ICP, has been completed and the remaining will be done before December 15. The BSF jawans will be able to patrol by using two- and four-wheelers by using the new road as the same was done on foot on the unpaved road.Also, ₹3 crore is being spent on air-conditioning of the passenger terminal. “Nearly 75 per cent work on the 1.30 megawatt (MW) grid-tied rooftop solar plant project at ₹4 crore has been completed. The project will be complete before December 31,” he added.The main road leading to the trade gate situated along the zero line was damaged. “We are spending ₹1 crore on the construction of the road and it will be completed before January,” he said.Some underground electric works are also being done at the ICP, the LPAI official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lpai-spending-rs-42-crore-to-upgrade-icp-attari-strengthen-security-at-border-101638214948917.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ad shoot at Kartarpur Gurdwara: DSGMC urges MEA to take up issue with Pakistan govt||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Monday wrote to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar, demanding him to take up with the Pakistan government the issue of an agency using the premises of Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib for promotion of women apparel. In pictures shared on social media, a model can be seen posing for an advertisement for a women’s clothing brand at the gurdwara. “We urge the government of India to immediately take up this serious issue with the Pakistan government considering the sentiments of the community,” DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa wrote in the letter. “A Pakistani business promotion agency used the premises of historical Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib, Pakistan, for promotion of ladies clothes. This act of agency/model has deeply hurt the religious sentiments of Sikh community worldwide. It is unfortunate that the local administration allowed an agency to use the religious place of worship for such promotions (sic),” the letter read. Sirsa said many complaints have been received from the Sikh Sangat regarding people using the gurdwara premises as a “picnic spot or to shoot TikTok videos wearing indecent clothes which hurts our sentiments”. “This behaviour is totally unacceptable... We demand strict action against those who disrespect the sanctity of gurdwara sahibs; just like the Pakistan government acted against actress Saba Qamar for shooting a dance video in a historical mosque,” the letter added. Pakistan police initiate probe The Pakistan police on Monday initiated a probe into a Pakistani model’s bareheaded photoshoot for a clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur following an Indian Sikh journalist’s criticism of the pictures for hurting the religious sentiments of the community. Noting that the pictures have been uploaded on the social media, Indian Sikh independent journalist Ravinder Singh in a tweet highlighted the disrespect shown to the community and also tagged Prime Minister Imran Khan in his post. Covering one’s head in a gurdwara is mandatory and considered as a way of showing respect for the revered place. Reacting to his tweet, Azhar Mashwani, the Punjab chief minister’s focal person for digital media, said the matter had been “forwarded to concerned authorities for legal action”. Shortly after, the Punjab police tweeted that they are investigating all aspects related to this incident and strict legal action will be taken against those responsible. “Management of concerned brand & model are being investigated. Worship places of all religions are equally respectable,” it said in the tweet. According to a report in the Dawn newspaper, the model’s photos were shared on the Instagram page of a clothing brand named Mannat Clothing, but were removed after the criticism. Mashwani was quoted as saying in the report that police would first investigate the model and the brand’s role in the capturing of the photos and later register a case. “The Police are checking whether the model conducted the photoshoot on her own or the brand carried out the session,” he said. Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry in a tweet said “the designer and the model must apologise to Sikh community” over the photos. “Kartarpur Sahib is a religious symbol and not a film set,” he tweeted. Reacting to the whole controversy, the brand- Mannat Clothing- in an Instagram post apologised and denied that the pictures posted on their accounts were part of any photo shoot done by them. “These pictures were provided to us by a third party (blogger) in which they were wearing our dress,” it said in the post. “However, we accept our mistake that we should not have posted this content and we apologise to every single person who was offended by this,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ad-shoot-at-kartarpur-gurdwara-dsgmc-urges-mea-to-take-up-issue-with-pakistan-govt-101638214769269.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram cop assaulted for objecting to drinking in the open||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Gurugram police was allegedly assaulted after he objected to four men drinking in the open at Nihal Colony in Sector 110 on Sunday night. Police said three people were arrested in connection with the assault.The incident took place when ASI Shashtra Kumar, along with his team, was patrolling in the area, police said, adding that the suspects had parked their car and a motorbike on the road. According to police, when Kumar asked them to remove the vehicles, they assaulted him and one of them attacked him with a brick and pushed him into an open drain. Yashbir Singh, station house officer of Bajghera police station, said that the ASI asked the suspects not to drink there, but they began fighting with him. “Suddenly, one of them picked up a brick lying on the road and attacked him. Soon, other police personnel deployed there reached the spot and rescued the ASI. They arrested three people from the spot while one fled taking the advantage of the dark,” he said. The suspects were identified as Deepak Kumar, Anil Kumar, and Rahul Singh of Sector 110. Another suspect, identified as Anil Kumar, is on the run, said police. Police said the suspects were produced before the court on Monday that sent them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-cop-assaulted-for-objecting-to-drinking-in-the-open-101638214348900.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: No change in Dec 31 deadline for takeover of DLF Phases 1,2 and 3||December 31 will continue to be the deadline for taking over of DLF Phases 1, 2, and 3, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) reiterated to developer DLF during a review meeting of the three colonies on Monday.The meeting was chaired by MCG chief engineer TL Sharma at the civic body’s Sector 34 office.Sharma directed DLF to complete all the remaining development works, including construction of roads in all three colonies, as soon as the ongoing construction ban — imposed on the orders of the Supreme Court on November 24 on account of worsening air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) — is lifted so that the developer can adhere to the December 31 deadline.Sharma said if the construction ban continues, a relaxation of 10-15 days can be given to DLF, but as of now, the deadline for handover will continue to be December 31, as agreed upon during a review meeting in October.“Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given strict instructions to take over the colonies by December 31, according to which all pending works should be completed at the earliest. DLF was also told that the excuse of being unable to carry out bitumen related work in winter will not be accepted,” said Sharma.DLF officials gave an assurance to the MCG that they will complete the work as per the deadline but raised the issue of non receipt of completion certificates, said MCG officials.To this, the chief engineer said the MCG will take up the matter with the department of town and country planning (DTCP); however, the MCG has to take over the three colonies regardless.DLF officials declined to comment on the matter.MCG’s ward 34 councillor Rama Rathee, who attended the meeting, said she raised the issue of infrastructure upgrade in Block G of DLF Phase 1, and blocks J and L in DLF Phase 2, as the existing infrastructure is not sufficient to support the growing population.“Due to the increase in floor area ratio (FAR), there has been a lot of pressure on the existing infrastructure in the three colonies. There is dire need for an infrastructure upgrade. Water is a major problem and underground water tanks need to be built at the earliest to meet the supply deficit. Hence, taking over the three colonies needs to be done as per the deadline so that the MCG can take up the infra related issues on priority,” said Rathee.Around ₹14.12 crore was required to fix civic deficiencies in DLF Phase 1; ₹9.43 crore in DLF Phase 2; and ₹11.89 crore for DLF Phase 3, as per the civic body’s 2017 deficiency assessment report.MCG officials said during Monday’s meeting, the status of ongoing work was also reviewed.“At least 75% of road construction work, around 80% of desilting of sewer lines, 70% of desilting of stormwater drains, 65% of water supply related work, and 60% of horticulture work have been completed in the three colonies. Provided that there are no interruptions and there is adequate availability of manpower and machinery, we estimate that it will take another three weeks to complete all pending work,” said a senior MCG official, who attended the meeting, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-no-change-in-dec-31-deadline-for-takeover-of-dlf-phases-1-2-and-3-101638214169186.html
30-11-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh power employees to demonstrate the day Electricity Bill is introduced||Lucknow: The power employees have decided to stage countrywide demonstrations the day the Central government rushes through the contentious Electricity (Amendment) Bill in the Parliament during the current session. Giving this information All-India Power Engineers’ Federation chairman Shailendra Dubey said that the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE) on Monday decided that if the Central government tried to table the bill, country’s 1.5 million power staff would organise demonstrations throughout the country.Dubey said, “The bill, if passed, would have serious consequences for the country’s power sector as well as poor people for whom power would become a luxury because of its high cost.” He demanded that the bill be referred to the select committee for scrutiny and discussion before it was introduced in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-power-employees-to-demonstrate-the-day-electricity-bill-is-introduced-101638214049125.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept asks pvt hospitals to share details of international patients||In the wake of the cases of new Covid variant -- Omicron -- found in various countries, the Gurugram health department on Monday asked private hospitals and diagnostic labsto share complete information of international patients twice a week. Health officials said that all the stakeholders were asked to keep strict vigilance regarding the new variant of concern, which is believed to be extremely transmissible. The officials said that the 12 high-risk countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival, including Covid-19 testing, are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel. On Monday, Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav also held a meeting with representatives of at least 10 major private hospitals and diagnostic labsto check the Covid preparedness in the district.Yadav said that samples of international travellers will be sent for genome sequencing if their Covid test report comes positive. “We have asked the private hospitals to share complete information of international travellers twice a week so that we can keep a record and can track them for contact tracing. We have also asked them to mention the correct address and mobile number of an international patient,” he said. The officials also said that separate testing camps have been set up for international travellers outside two government hospitals and several private hospitals across the district, as hundreds of foreign nationals visit Gurugram every week for medical treatment. On Monday, 3,441 Covid tests were conducted in the district, the officials said. “We are also doing a random sampling of the passengers since July this year and 5% of the samples are sent for genome sequencing to Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak,” he said.Central guidelines say that travellers coming from countries ‘at risk’ have to undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare, said that they have deputed additional manpower at their flu clinics across network hospitals to cater to any surge in the coming days. “Patients arriving from the designated countries or those who declare a travel history to these in the last fortnight are undergoing a compulsory RT-PCR test. We are ensuring strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour at our facilities and are well-equipped to deal with any emergency,” he said. On Monday, the district reported eight fresh Covid-19 cases while 13 people recovered from the infection, according to the state government data. There are 65 active cases in the district, of which 61 are in home isolation and four are hospitalised, the officials said. The officials said 10,636 people were vaccinated on Monday, with 2,417 being administered the first dose and 8,219 the second dose. Over 3.84 million people have been vaccinated in Gurugram so far. According to the health department, they are monitoring all residential areas and if cases are reported from any area, the district administration declares it a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-dept-asks-pvt-hospitals-to-share-details-of-international-patients-101638213928892.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||46 shops in Gurugram sealed for operating without trade licence||htreporters@hindustantimes.comAt least 46 shops were sealed on Monday by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) as their owners failed to procure a trade licence, officials said. The shops were sealed in markets and malls located in sectors 10A, 42, 48, 49, and on Golf Course Road. On Saturday, the MCG had sealed 38 shops across Palam Vihar, sectors 4 and 9 for the same violation.“Under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, all types of commercial establishments located within the MCG limits are required to obtain a trade licence. Continuous action is being taken by the MCG against commercial establishments operating without trade licence,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.The civic body was also supposed to carry out a sealing drive in the zone 2 on Monday. However, prior to the drive, about 50 shopkeepers of markets in sectors 22 and 23 approached the MCG to procure trade licence, the officials said, adding that they were directed to the civic body’s camp opposite the Civil Hospital for the paper work to get a licence. Of 46 shops sealed on Monday, 27 were sealed in Sector 10A market, 10 in malls located in sectors 48 and 49, and nine shops in a mall in Sector 42 located on GCR.The action against shops operating without a licence has gained impetus since Friday when the MCG commissioner had pulled up the taxation branch for lack of action on the matter. During the review meeting, it was pointed out that the MCG’s revenue collection has been hit due to laxity in issuing licences. There are over 47,000 commercial properties in the MCG area. The MCG has issued notices to over 230 commercial property owners to procure trade licenses or else their properties will be sealed next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/46-shops-in-gurugram-sealed-for-operating-without-trade-licence-101638213629959.html
30-11-2021||Lucknow||Five fresh Covid-19 cases reported in UP||Uttar Pradesh reported five fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday of the total 1,24,647 samples tested in the past 24-hours, which is one of the lowest number of fresh cases in a single day.Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health in a press statement said that people should adhere to Covid-19 protocol as cases have gone down but the threat of infection still remains.On Monday, Lucknow reported two cases, and one each in Mathura, Barabanki and Sitapur. In all, 8,74,37,937 Covid-19 samples have been tested in the state till now and 17,10,387 cases have been reported since the pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/five-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-up-101638213508959.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Jewar: Son, aide booked for shooting 62-year-old father over property dispute||Two persons were booked on Sunday night for allegedly shooting at a 62-year-old man at his residence in Jewar’s Mangroli village that evening, said police on Monday.The victim, a retired Army personnel, was identified as Shyam Singh Nirmal.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Greater Noida, said that Nirmal was sitting inside his house premises at 6.30pm on Sunday, when the victim’s son -- Himmat Singh, 32 -- and his accomplice, riding on a motorcycle, shot at him twice from a point-blank range. “The victim suffered injuries in his head and left shoulder. His family members admitted him to a private hospital immediately, where he is currently undergoing treatment,” Pandey said.Umesh Bahadur, station house officer (SHO), Jewar police station, said that a police team was formed and an investigation was launched in the matter.Nirmal, who retired from the Indian Army in 1990, had worked at a private company for a few years. “Nirmal lives with his nephew’s family, after he developed differences with his wife and son who have been living at a different house for the past 15 years. The 30-year-old wife of Nirmal’s nephew told us that the victim was sitting inside his house premises when Nirmal’s son Himmat and his aide shot at him,” Bahadur said.Bahadur also said that Nirmal and his son have been involved in a property dispute for some time. “According to primary investigation, a land owned by Nirmal was acquired in the Jewar airport project and he had got a compensation amount and a developed land in return. However, he did not give any share from those to his son, and his son has been allegedly upset over the issue... so, he committed the crime,” Bahadur added.A case was registered against the two suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) at the Jewar police station on Sunday. “A search to arrest the suspects is underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-son-aide-booked-for-shooting-62-year-old-father-over-property-dispute-101638213390874.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air quality nears ‘severe’ levels||For the sixth consecutive day, the city’s air quality continued to be in the “very poor” category on Monday, while inching closer to the “severe” pollution levels. However, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that the city may receive a few spells of rain on Thursday which will improve the air quality later this week.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin, the air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram on Monday was recorded at 395, a rise from Sunday’s reading of 372. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Officials from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that low wind speed and dip in temperature were causing the air quality to deteriorate. “Low temperature and wind speed are causing pollutants to remain trapped in the lower layers of the atmosphere. This further disrupts the dispersion of particulate matter. Due to unfavourable weather conditions, the air quality has deteriorated further. We are monitoring the situation closely and checking on localised pollution violations,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (north), HSPCB.The HSPCB on Monday also imposed a penalty of ₹25 lakh each on two real estate developers for carrying out construction activities in sectors 61 and 63A, respectively. The Supreme Court and the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) have banned construction activities across Delhi-NCR until further orders.“During surprise inspections, our teams found construction activities ongoing at two different sites on Monday afternoon, and accordingly levied penalties on the developers concerned. We are also carrying out night patrolling to ensure such violations can be detected and localised air pollution can be kept in check,” said Singh.HSPCB on Sunday had imposed a penalty of ₹25 lakh on a developer for carrying out construction activities in Sector 103.Meanwhile, IMD, in its local weather report, said that Gurugram may see a few spells of rain and thundershowers on Thursday, which can help the ai quality improve slightly. A maximum temperature of 26°C and a minimum of 10°C were recorded for the city on Monday, the IMD said. On Sunday, the city had witnessed maximum and minimum temperatures at 24.7°C and 10.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-air-quality-nears-severe-levels-101638213389362.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Four arrested for cheating Noida woman of ₹27 lakh on pretext of birthday gift||Four foreign nationals were arrested on Monday for allegedly cheating a Noida resident of ₹27 lakh for nearly two months on the pretext of a birthday gift, police said.The suspects were identified as Abraham Likon, 35, Jutine Bly, 40, and Mortin (goes by first name), 35 -- natives of Nigeria; and Sylvestre (goes by first name), 38 -- a native of Ivory Coast in West Africa.One of the suspects disguised himself as a US Navy official and befriended the 70-year-old victim -- wife of a retired Army official, who is a resident of Noida Sector 28 -- on a social networking site on September 24 this year.“According to her complaint, the suspects had befriended her through a fake account named ‘Captain Alex’ on Instagram. One of the suspects and the victim exchanged their cellphone numbers and soon started chatting on WhatsApp,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Greater Noida.The suspect took the woman in confidence, and asked her to share her birthday date with him -- which was in September itself. “The suspect told her that he would send her an expensive gift -- jewellery and 65,000 British pounds ( ₹65.11 lakh) -- to her as a belated birthday gift,” said Ankita Sharma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Noida.Soon after this conversation, the woman started getting calls from unknown numbers and the callers identified themselves as Customs officials. “They demanded money from me to release the gift from the Customs department. I transferred nearly ₹27 lakh to different bank accounts, as provided by the suspects who posed as Customs officials, in eight transactions between September and November,” the woman said in her complaint.However, the men kept asking for more money to release the gift. The victim smelled a foul play behind this and filed a complaint at the Sector 20 police station on November 19.Police scanned details of bank accounts of the suspects and found that those were opened in New Delhi. “We traced Internet protocol (IP) address and cellphone numbers used by the suspects, and conducted a search in New Delhi’s Tilak Nagar and arrested the four suspects from there on Monday,” ADCP Singh said.Police have seized 36 cellphones; four passports, laptops and Internet dongles; and ₹3.5 lakh from the possession of the suspects. The Noida police said that the suspects came to India in 2014 on medical visas, and their visas eventually expired. However, they did not return to West Africa and started living in India illegally.The suspects are not cooperating with us in the investigation and it is not yet clear how many people they have cheated so far, said ADCP Singh. “A case was registered against the four suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) earlier this month. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Monday,” he said.All the four suspects were brought to deputy commissioner of police (DCP) office in Noida Sector 6 during a press conference on Monday, where suspect Mortin said, “The charges levelled against us are not true.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-arrested-for-cheating-noida-woman-of-27-lakh-on-pretext-of-birthday-gift-101638213336502.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: ₹1.27 cr penalty against 13 developers for destroying green belt||The Greater Noida authority on Monday imposed a penalty of ₹1.27 crore against 13 developers and a private school for using a green belt along the link road connecting Greater Noida West with Ghaziabad via national highways 24 (NH-24) and Sector Tech Zone 7, officials said.Several residents recently filed complaints in the matter, officials said.The authority developed the green belt with dense tree plantation along the main roads in the city, where the developers have built housing projects. The 13 developers and the school authorities in question have destroyed the green belt -- which is located adjoining their properties, by building structures there, said the officials.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Greater Noida authority, has directed the horticulture department to conduct an inspection in the area and submit a report on the same at the earliest. “The horticulture department has been directed to act strictly in this matter and take action against the violators -- the 13 developers and the school authorities -- for using the green space for their personal purposes. We will take legal action against them if they fail to deposit the penalty amount within seven days,” said Bhooshan.The horticulture department has imposed penalties between ₹4 lakh and ₹8 lakh against the violators, depending on the severity of violations.The green belt has been freed and the penalty notice has been served to the parties concerned, said the officials on Monday.“If the developers or the school fail to pay the penalty amount, the Greater Noida authority will start recovery proceedings through issuance of recovery notices, under which properties of the two parties can be seized. The money recovered will be used to redevelop the green space,” said a horticulture department official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-1-27-cr-penalty-against-13-developers-for-destroying-green-belt-101638213335205.html
30-11-2021||Noida||3-month deadline over, Noida files status report in SC on twin tower demolition||The Noida authority on Monday filed a status report before the Supreme Court, detailing the delays in demolishing the twin towers in Supertech’s Emerald Court project. Supertech Limited, meanwhile, filed a review plea before the court in which it maintained that it has informed the authority that three agencies have been shortlisted for the demolition exercise.On August 31, a bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud had given three months to Supertech to demolish the towers, which according to the apex court was built in violation of norms, and directed the Noida authority and Central Building Research Institute to supervise the exercise. The authority filed the status report on Monday as the court given deadline of three months has expired and the Supreme Court order is yet to be complied with, said officials.“Yes, we have filed a report in the Supreme Court in the Supertech matter,” said chief executive officer, Noida authority, Ritu Maheshwari, without giving any further details.According to officials in the know of the matter, the authority has informed the court that developer Supertech has not yet selected an agency for carrying out the demolition, thus delaying the process.But Supertech on Monday filed a review application stating that it has informed the Noida authority about shortlisting three agencies for demolition.“Since the Noida authority and Central Building Research Institute are in a supervisory role, we have informed both about the technical status and that we have finalised three agencies for the demolition. Now it is up to the Noida authority to finalise any one agency for the job. We have also informed the authority about what the experts say about the demolition and how tough a job it would be as the towers are surrounded by other residential buildings,” said RK Arora, chairman, Supertech Limited.Maheshwari, however, said the developer has not yet submitted an action plan for demolition even after multiple meetings.“As per the Supreme Court order, we are only in a supervisory role. It is Supertech that has to select the agency and then prepare an action plan,” she said.The case related to the twin towers was filed in 2012 by the Emerald Court residents’ welfare association (RWA) claiming that several rules were violated in the construction of two 40-storey towers. On April 11, 2014, the Allahabad high court ordered that the towers — Apex and Ceyane — be razed, observing that they stood too close to each other. The Noida authority appealed against the verdict, claiming that no norm was violated in their construction.On August 31, the Supreme Court directed Supertech to demolish the twin towers within three months and also prosecute Noida officials involved in approving maps and building plans in violation of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3month-deadline-over-noida-files-status-report-in-sc-on-twin-tower-demolition-101638213334070.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: No celebrations at UP Gate, farmers press demand for MSP guarantee||There were no major celebrations at the UP Gate farmers’ protest site on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Monday after both houses of Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 without discussion on Day One of the winter session of Parliament. Farmer leaders at UP Gate said they are now looking forward to the government addressing their pending demands, including a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops; compensation for farmers who lost their lives during the course of the ongoing agitation and withdrawal of police cases against farmers, among others. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation of farmers leading the protests, on Monday issued a statement which termed the passage of the repeal bill as “history has been made today in India”. “Anti-farmer, pro-corporate black farm laws repealed by India’s Parliament without any discussion, after the government of India was forced to take this step through a historic farmers’ struggle - First major victory of the farmers’ movement today, while other important demands are still pending,” the SKM statement said. “We believe that the farm laws repeal is a positive step and we are now seeking a law to guarantee MSP for crops, besides several other demands such as compensation for farmers who died during the yearlong agitation against three laws, as well as withdrawal of cases against farmers, among others. Every farmer is closely watching how the government will take up our demands during the winter session,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and UP Gate site spokesperson of SKM. On November 19, on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the three laws will be repealed and urged protesting farmers to end their yearlong agitation.Farmers at UP Gate had welcomed the announcement with much happiness and distributed sweets to everyone at the protest site. But there were no such celebrations on Monday when both houses of Parliament passed the repeal bill in record time, through a voice vote, without any discussion. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said farmers in villages have told them not to leave the protest site. “Similar to the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021, the government should bring in a law to guarantee MSP. We have already told the government that we are ready for talks. On Monday, we held discussion with the Delhi Police and apprised them that there will be no tractor march (earlier scheduled for November 29) as it has already been suspended by the SKM,” Tikait said at UP Gate on Monday. “The farmers are still sitting at the three protest sites and they understand that there are other issues for which solution must be found. These three laws came one and half year ago but our other demands such as a law for MSP has already been there for years. The resolution of these issues will come only when talks are held,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-no-celebrations-at-up-gate-farmers-press-demand-for-msp-guarantee-101638213332927.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Pollution control teams act against construction sites in Ghaziabad, DG sets||The officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Monday said their teams are trying to enforce ban on diesel generator (DG) sets, imposed on account of bad air quality in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), and also conducting regular inspections of construction sites to stop any violation of a November 24 order by the Supreme Court, banning construction activities in Delhi-NCR. The air pollution levels in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, meanwhile, continued to remain in the “very poor” category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s 4pm bulletin on Monday, Ghaziabad had an air quality index (AQI) of 365, Greater Noida 350, and Noida 356, all readings falling in the “very poor” category. The CPCB figures showed that all monitoring stations in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida had PM2.5 — fine inhalable particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 microns or less— as the primary pollutant.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. The UPPCB officials said they have sealed two places in Sahibabad where DG sets were being used despite a ban on their usage by the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM). Officials said they have also stopped the construction work at four sites in Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad. “There is a prevalent ban on the operation of DG sets, except for emergency services, as directed by the CAQM. The four sites undertaking construction work were doing so in violation of a Supreme Court order that had directed a stoppage of all construction activities in Delhi and the neighbouring NCR towns. The activities which fall under the purview of the order were stopped,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “Our teams have now focussed on DG sets and construction activities which flout the directions of the Supreme Court and the CAQM,” Sharma added. In its directions on November 24, the apex court called for an interim ban on construction activities in the NCR except for non-polluting construction activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical works and carpentry. The forecast by the Union government’s System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) said local surface winds are likely to remain relatively high on Monday and Tuesday, leading to increased dispersion of pollutants. “...On December 1, wind speed and temperature are likely to decrease, reducing ventilation leading to slight deterioration of air quality. From December 2 onwards winds are expected to increase gradually but AQI is likely to remain in the “very poor” category. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” the Safar forecast added. The mixing height is the height at which air and suspended particles mix above the ground.A lower mixing height means the pollutants remain trapped closer to the surface.On Monday, the share of stubble burning related pollutants in Delhi’s PM2.5 was 2%, the forecast added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pollution-control-teams-act-against-construction-sites-in-ghaziabad-dg-sets-101638213331897.html
30-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Travellers from high-risk nations to be in home quarantine for a week||In the wake of the World Health Organization (WHO) asking countries to widely test for the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus, saying its divergent design could fuel future surges of the disease with severe consequences, the Ghaziabad health department has directed all foreign travellers reaching the district from 15 “high-risk countries” to be in home quarantine for a week, officials said on Monday.According to the officials, the decision has been taken as a precautionary measure against any possible spread of the new variant. Health department teams and the integrated covid command and control centre (ICCCC) in the district will monitor such travellers during their home quarantine, they added.“The list mostly includes South-African nations among the 15 high-risk countries. While returning or coming to India, a traveller should have the RT-PCR report with him/her, and thereafter the person will have to stay in home quarantine for a week. During this period, our teams will conduct tests on the person and his/her family members. The traveller will be again tested for Covid-19 after one week, and further action will be taken accordingly. In case the person tests Covid-19 positive, we will get genome-sequencing done for the samples,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad.He also said that the health department has called on several resident welfare associations (RWAs) to take proactive measures to check a possible spread of the new Covid-19 variant. “The RWAs are requested to inform the health department if residents or people are coming in the housing complexes from states with high caseload, and mandatorily about the arrival of travellers from abroad. In the meantime, we have also asked our teams to step up the regular Covid-19 vaccination, and it will take us another fortnight to complete our assigned target for the first-dose vaccination,” Shankhdhar added.According to official records, 1,770 foreign travellers entered the district between November 1 and November 29 (Monday), and 979 of them have tested negative for Covid-19 and test reports of the remaining people are awaited.“Given addresses have not matched in 329 instances, and 128 of the tested people are from other cities or districts. Overall, 334 test reports are under the process. So far, none of the foreign travellers tested positive for the virus. If they do, we will get the genome-sequencing done,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer, Ghaziabad.The WHO warned on Monday that the divergent design of the Omicron variant could fuel surges with “severe consequences” in the future. In a technical briefing document for its member states, the United Nations (UN) health agency said that the likelihood of a potential spread of Omicron at the global level is high, and the overall risk related to the new variant of concern has been assessed as “very high”.At present, the local transmission of Omicron has been reported in South Africa and it has now been detected in four WHO regions -- African, Eastern Mediterranean, European, and Western Pacific.District may miss first dose of vax deadlineIn connection with the target deadline of November 30 (Tuesday) set by the Uttar Pradesh government for vaccination, Ghaziabad in all probability is likely to miss the first-dose vaccination target of 2,702,167. According to the official data, the district has administered the first dose of vaccines to only 2,405,663 beneficiaries till 4.30pm on Monday. So, the district is short of administering 296,504 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the beneficiaries, said the officials.“We will try to complete the target in another fortnight. We have already taken up all necessary measures, including door-to-door surveys and holding evening vaccination camps. But there is a general tendency among the beneficiaries to not turn up as Covid-19 cases are almost negligible in the district,” CMO Shankhdhar added.Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination in the district, said, “Most of the beneficiaries who have not turned up for taking the jab are senior citizens or more than 18 years of age. We urge them to take the jab to protect themselves and others from Covid-19.”Despite all the efforts to meet the vax deadline, the Ghaziabad health department administered 130,706 doses of vaccines between November 22 and November 28 (Monday), at a daily average of 18,672 doses. During the week prior to this, the department administered 111,580 doses of vaccines, with a daily average of 15,940 doses per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-travellers-from-high-risk-nations-to-be-in-home-quarantine-for-a-week-101638213330759.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 1,100+ dengue cases, new infection count falls for second week||With Delhi recording over a thousand more dengue cases during the week ending November 27, the number of cases of the mosquito-borne disease in the city has crossed the 8,000-mark, taking the tally to 8,276 this year, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporations on Monday. Though the total number of dengue cases is the highest since Delhi’s biggest outbreak in 2015, the weekly numbers indicate that dengue cases are on the decline now.Last week’s dengue case count stood at 1,148 cases, down from 1,851 cases reported the week before, and 2,569 cases reported in the week prior to that. Delhi has recorded 6,739 cases in November so far.“There has been 36-37% reduction in the number of cases we are seeing. By next week, we should see the numbers subside completely. The breeding has already stopped with no more rains and drop in temperatures,” said a senior official from the municipal corporations.Hospitals across the city reported a decline in the number of cases over the last 10 days.
30-11-2021||Other||Lucknow: Maya hails withdrawal of farm bills,backs farmers’ demand on MSP law||LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday welcomed the passing of the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 202 in the Parliament while reminding the Central government to withdraw its ‘silence’ over the demand for a new legislation guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) to farmers for their produce. The three farm laws were repealed by both houses on the opening day of the Parliament’s winter session on Monday. The bill seeking to withdraw the three farm bills was moved in Lok Sabha by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the morning, amid ruckus by the Opposition. It was passed in the Lower House without discussion as Speaker Om Birla said a debate is not possible in a noisy scene.“The three highly contentious bills being withdrawn by Parliament after a year-long struggle by the farmers is some relief and a true win for the country’s democracy. This is a lesson for all the governments to practice democratic behaviour both inside and outside the Parliament,” Mayawati tweeted. “However various other problems of the farmers as well as the silence of the government over the demand for a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price of farmers still remains and a positive initiative is required from the centre on this issue so that the farmers could return home happily,” she added. This is the second time that Mayawati has flagged the issue of a law guaranteeing MSP to farmers for their produce. Despite the government withdrawing the three farm laws, the farmers have refused to call off their agitation until several of their other demands like a law on MSP, compensation to farmer families who lost their loved ones during the farmers’ agitation among others are settled. The BSP chief said that the centre also needed to strike a meaningful dialogue with farmers. “The centre should re-initiate a meaningful dialogue with farmers to ensure that they and their families benefit from it. For that, a proper policy is required which would be in the truest sense usher in a green revolution. This would mean life of farmers getting better,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-maya-hails-withdrawal-of-farm-bills-backs-farmers-demand-on-msp-law-101638213268955.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Varavara Rao files plea to permit him to move to Hyderabad as he cannot afford to live in Mumbai||Mumbai Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao has filed an application in the Bombay high court seeking modification of the February 22 bail order as he wishes to travel to Hyderabad and take medical treatment for cataract operations and other ailments. Rao, 83, has stated that as he is a pensioner and a senior citizen of the state of Telangana, he wants to avail the benefits of various health schemes initiated by the state. Rao has also stated that as he receives a pension of around ₹50,000 per month, it is insufficient for him to stay as well as pay medical expenses in Mumbai. Meanwhile, on Monday, the HC granted Rao an extension till December 6 to return to jail after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) informed the division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal that it had not been able to get the health condition of Rao assessed and examined by Nanavati Hospital, as directed by the bench on November 18. When the application of Rao for extension of bail came up for hearing, senior advocate Anand Grover, representing Rao, informed the bench that rather than complying with the November 18 order, NIA had failed to refer Rao to Nanavati Hospital. In the application seeking modification of the bail order, Rao has stated that the monthly expenses he has been incurring while complying with the bail conditions by staying in Mumbai is around ₹96,000 per month. As he receives only ₹50,000 pension, he is forced to borrow from his children, he stated. The application further states that he had to undergo a laparoscopic surgery and a hernia repair operation at Holy Family hospital after he suffered acute pain in the abdomen earlier in November for which he incurred an expense of ₹3.04 lakh. Rao has stated that he has already spent ₹3.7 lakh over his capacity and hence the bail order should be modified to permit him to go and live in Hyderabad where the cost of living is much lower. Rao has also stated that he has to undergo cataract operation in both eyes which will cost him ₹50,000 which is beyond his financial capabilities. He states that as he is covered by the health schemes in Telangana state and his daughter and grand-children are doctors, they would be in a better position to take care of him if he is allowed to go back to Hyderabad. While assuring the court that he is willing to abide by the strictest bail conditions put by the court while living at his residence in Hyderabad, Rao has stated that he would also be able to sustain himself and his wife from his pension. The application is expected to be heard on December 2 along with the bail extension application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/varavara-rao-files-plea-to-permit-him-to-move-to-hyderabad-as-he-cannot-afford-to-live-in-mumbai-101638213208773.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Schools reopen in Gurugram, records low attendance||Most of the private schools in Gurugram resumed offline classes on Monday, but the overall attendance was as low as 30%, officials said. School authorities said that many parents were reluctant to send their wards to school, expressing concerns over the possible third wave of Covid-19.However, in both private and government schools, the attendance was high for classes 10 and 12 due to the upcoming board examinations as it is mandatory for such students to attend physical classes, the officials said.“The overall attendance in private schools was poor at 30%, while the same for government schools was as high as 80%. However, classes 10 and 12 in both government and private schools saw an attendance of almost 90% on Monday,” said a district education officer, seeking anonymity.According to the officials, parents’ consent is mandatory for the students to attend junior classes.After getting the government’s nod to reopen from September (after the second Covid wave subsided in Haryana), schools in Gurugram were closed again from November 14 to 17 due to the deteriorating air quality. On November 17, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) directed that all private and government schools, and other educational institutions in Delhi and other NCR cities should remain closed “until further orders”. On November 25, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram released an order allowing all schools as well as other educational institutions to open from Friday (November 26) with strict Covid protocols. Only a few schools reopened on Friday. Sudha Goyal, director of the Scottish High International School, said tat parents still want their children to attend classes online. “Due to board exams, the senior students are attending physical classes. But parents of students studying in junior classes are not willing to send their wards to school due to the poor air quality and the Covid fear,” she said.Rohit Mann, director, Lancers International School, said, “Being an international school with expat population, we are yet to have our expatriate families rejoin. Many of them are yet to arrive in India and this has influenced our on-site attendance. Besides, parents are still cautious and are waiting for children to get vaccinated before they can send them to school,” he said. Aparna Erry, principal of DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that on Monday they started the offline classes again and were overwhelmed with the response in terms of students’ attendance. However, the government schools on Monday witnessed a robust attendance at 80% as parents opted for physical classes due to challenges in terms of internet connection and devices, the officials said. Sunil Kumar Sharma, principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jacobpura, said that they received 1,400 students, out of the 1,456 students, in classes 9 to 12. “Parents and students now want to attend in-person classes as many of them were facing issues with online classes. There is no substitute for regular studies and due to lack of adequate resources in rural areas, many students were unable to attend online classes,” he said.The education officer said that schools have to follow all Covid-19 guidelines and if anyone found violating the norms, strict action will be taken against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-reopen-in-gurugram-records-low-attendance-101638213150235.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Covid worries keep students away as Delhi schools reopen||Schools across the Capital witnessed low attendance as they reopened for in-person classes after two weeks on Monday.The Delhi government had announced the closure of schools after the Supreme Court raised concerns about the Capital’s air pollution. Subsequently, the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region also directed the closure of education institutions in Delhi-NCR. Schools in Delhi were closed on November 13, barely two weeks after reopening for all students for the first time since March last year. School administrators attributed the thin attendance to uncertainty surrounding the emergence of a new Covid-19 variant Omicron and logistical challenges, such as the absence of school buses.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that attendance was poor and several students who had given their consent for in-person classes did not come to school on Monday. The school resumed in-person classes for students in Class 6 onwards.“The feedback has not been very good. If 15 students consent from one section, hardly two turn up. There is a lot of uncertainty surrounding the new Covid-19 variant, and some parents are scared. They are a little apprehensive about sending children to school since they are not vaccinated,” said Joshi.In other schools too, the number of students who attended in-person classes was fewer than anticipated based on consent forms. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, which reopened for in-person classes for students upto Class 9 on Monday, for the first time since March 2020, said, “Attendance was less even though we received consent from 50-60% of students. Around 30-35% attendance was recorded today [Monday] in various classes,” said Arora.She said that students were happy to be back at school after nearly 19 months and the school would spend the first few days setting the tone of the classroom through orientation sessions. The school is yet to start its transport service and is working out the modalities of the bus routes.Many other schools are currently in the process of finalising bus routes but are exercising caution amid the abrupt closure of schools in the past. Schools said that while parents were insisting on the resumption of bus services, one needed a minimum number of students to avail of the service.Sudha Acharya, the principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, a consortium of over 120 private Delhi schools, said that while parents were seeking bus services, the school management was yet to take a call on the decision. “We will have to take permission from the school management before resuming the service. The challenge is that if one is resuming the bus service on a particular route, one would need at least a minimum of 30 students to avail of the facility otherwise it will not be feasible,” said Acharya.She said that the school was calling students in a staggered manner, due to which students will not be accessing the facility daily. In the absence of daily use, parents might also raise concerns against paying the fees, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-worries-keep-students-away-as-delhi-schools-reopen-101638213091108.html
30-11-2021||Other||Five sent to jail in UP’s Phaphamau murders case||The Prayagraj police sent five people, including Pawan Saroj, to jail in connection with the murders of four members of a dalit family in Phaphamau area, on Monday.Officials said another accused, Kamlesh, is already in jail in a mobile theft case and his remand will soon be made.Police made Pawan Saroj the prime accused in the rape and murder case and presented him before the court from where he was escorted to Naini Central Jail.Meanwhile, taking action in the earlier case of SC/ST and harassment lodged by the kin of victims, police arrested four persons. They were also sent to jail. Although these four persons are also an accused in rape and murder case, recent action has been taken against them in the earlier FIR lodged against them. Their blood samples and fingerprints have been taken for matching with samples collected from the crime scene.A dalit couple and their 25-year-old daughter and 10-year-old differently able son were brutally murdered on the night of November 21. The 25-year-old woman was also raped before being killed. The murders came to light after four days, following which an FIR was lodged against 11 persons of upper caste family for murder and rape.On Sunday, police officials claimed that a stalker Pawan Saroj was behind the gruesome murders and rape. As there was strong circumstantial evidence against Saroj, he was arrested and was sent to jail, officials said.On September 29 this year, a woman from the family of victims lodged an FIR against Akash Singh, Abhay Singh, Ravi Singh, Manish Singh and Kamlesh under SC/ ST Act, harassment and other relevant sections of the IPC. She alleged that the accused barged into her house after breaking the door. They assaulted her husband with sticks in which he suffered head injuries and used abusive language against their caste. Police reached the spot and took her husband for medical examination. Later, a cross-FIR was registered in this connection.After the sensational murders, the family of victims alleged that police did not take any action against the accused which resulted in the gruesome killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-sent-to-jail-in-up-s-phaphamau-murders-case-101638213029966.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Contractor who submitted fake bills to PMC gets stop-work order||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued instructions to all departments to stop works related to Aashay Engineers and Associates. In a letter to department heads, PMC electrical department head Shrinivas Kandul said, “PMC has filed a police case against Aashay Engineers and Associates at the Shivajinagar police station for submission of forged bills worth Rs1 crore. The bills are for works carried away at four crematoriums. Actually, there is no such works on ground. Even the documents and signatures are fake. As instructed by the general body of PMC and municipal commissioner, civic body has filed the police complaint against them.” Kandul said that PMC has decided to stop all works with the contractor concerned undergoing with other departments and regional ward offices and will hold an inquiry of previous works carried out by the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/contractor-who-submitted-fake-bills-to-pmc-gets-stop-work-order-101638213028843.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Covid impact: Engineering courses see a surge of applicants this year||Pune: Number of students applying for engineering courses have increased this year compared to 2020 and the reason, according to experts, is that professional courses offer more job prospects especially during the Covid pandemic period. With the admission process underway for various courses, it is seen that the students applying for professional courses has increased in this academic year. The state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell held CET exams for various professional courses like engineering, pharmacy, management, law and others while registration of students seeking admission to these courses went considerably high for this year. As per the information shared by the state CET cell, in this academic year a total of 107,732 students have applied for online admission process for engineering courses in the state. During previous academic year for which admission process was concluded by February 2021 due to Covid induced restrictions, 96,337 students had applied for the courses. As the applications were fewer compared to intake capacity, 55,444 seats (44.7%) of the over 1.23 lakh in the first-year engineering courses across the state had remained vacant at the end of the Centralised Admission Process for the academic year 2020-21. During 2019, of 1.28 lakh seats, 62,086 (49%) were vacant in various engineering colleges across Maharashtra. Similarly, professional courses such as management and master in computer applications, there has been a rise in applications. Students taking direct admission to second year in engineering and pharmacy after completing diploma have also increased, said officials from CET. Last year, 42,815 students had applied for Master in Business Administration (MBA). This year, the number has gone up to 54,227. The number of students seeking direct admission in second year pharmacy course last year was 10,272, while this year it has gone up to 12,374. “There is good response to online admission process and registration of students in this academic year. Especially for the engineering courses, there has been a considerable rise in student registration this year. Students have preferred to choose the engineering sector looking at the job opportunities, mainly due to pandemic which has adversely affected other sectors. There has been good campus placements for engineering students in the last two years,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. Prof Mangesh Nagamurti from a private engineering institute said, “All the admissions for our computer science, mechanical and artificial intelligence have got a good number of students registration. The trend for this year is mostly seen towards professional courses rather than the traditional arts, commerce and science graduation. Students want to go for courses which can get good job opportunities in the future,” Pharmacy college professor Shrikant Borate said, “Due to the pandemic there was high demand for various types of medicines and other medical equipment. Even the business of medical shops and pharmacy industry boomed in last two years. Hence, many students are now preferring to go for pharmacy courses after completing Class 12. This is the field which gives job opportunities in any situation and students prefer this course due to financial crisis situation during Covid pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-impact-engineering-courses-see-a-surge-of-applicants-this-year-101638212788768.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Draft ward structure: SEC gives week’s extension to Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Aurangabad||PUNE: The State Election Commission (SEC) had given a week’s extension to prepare draft ward structure for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Aurangabad municipal corporations. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar had written to SEC seeking 15 more days to prepare draft ward structure for municipal elections. The previous deadline was November 30. PMC election officer Ajit Deshmukh confirmed that the election commission had given extension till December 6. After the civic chief sought extension, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the administration is helping Nationalist Congress, Shiv Sena and Congress to prepare ward structure as per their wish. Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar rejected the allegations of BJP and said, “By considering the geographical areas, the administration sought extension. It is an administrative issue and non-political.” Following the submission of ward structure by December 6, reservation for each ward would be announced, a civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/draft-ward-structure-sec-gives-week-s-extension-to-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-and-aurangabad-101638212789295.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi air improves, but respite will be short-lived||Delhi’s air improved marginally on Monday, dropping to the “very poor” category after three consecutive days of “severe” air, as wind speeds picked up over the Capital, allowing dispersal of pollutants post noon. Delhi recorded an average air quality index (AQI) of 389, down from Sunday’s reading of 405, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin at 4pm.Also Read | SC seeks reports from Delhi, NCR states on controlling pollutionThe respite is expected to be shortlived as agencies have forecast wind speeds to hover around 15-20km/hr range on Tuesday, after which calm wind conditions, which are not conducive to clearing the air, are expected to return from Wednesday.Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), said immediate relief is unlikely as the wind speed on Tuesday is not expected to be strong enough to improve the AQI beyond the “very poor” category.“We had forecast wind speed to pick up on Monday and Tuesday but even when they touch 20 km/hr, it will still keep AQI within the ‘very poor’ category. By Wednesday, we will again have calm winds and AQI will start returning to the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category,” said Beig.According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), calm wind conditions were prevailing in Delhi till 10.30am, after which wind speed rose to 15km/hr during the afternoon.“Wind speed ranged from 10-15km/hr during the day but calm wind conditions were back after 5pm. Delhi’s overall visibility ranged from 300 metres in the morning to 2,500 metres during the day, owing to smog,” said IMD scientist RK Jenamani.In its forecast on Monday, the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi -- a forecasting mechanism under the Union ministry of earth sciences -- stated that air quality is unlikely to improve beyond the ‘very poor’ category, with calm or slow wind conditions, unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants, predicted at night time.“Winds are likely to be relatively strong during Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday, air quality is likely to deteriorate again due to calm winds, but it will remain in the ‘very poor’ category,” it said.Meanwhile, Delhi recorded a maximum of 26.1 degrees Celsius (°C) on Monday, a degree above normal, and the minimum was 10.3°C, which is normal for this time of the season.IMD has forecast the minimum temperature to drop to around 9°C on Tuesday but it is expected to increase to 12°C by Wednesday, under the influence of a western disturbance. “There is a possibility of very light rain occurring in parts of Delhi on Thursday. This western disturbance will raise the minimum temperature,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-improves-but-respite-will-be-shortlived-101638212728730.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||5,000 resident doctors from Delhi strike to protest alleged delays in NEET counselling||Resident doctors stayed away from outpatient services at Delhi’s major government hospitals for the third day in a row, with no assurances from the Centre on the NEET PG counselling process.Around 5,000 resident doctors from Delhi have so far joined their counterparts across the country in a strike to protest alleged delays in the NEET postgraduate counselling process.The NEET exams were to happen in May, but were postponed to September due to the second wave of Covid-19. The counselling process was then delayed further because of an ongoing case in the Supreme Court regarding economic reservation.The delays in admission to post-graduation courses might not only result in the washout of a year for the young medical students but has also resulted in a shortage of doctors in medical college-hospitals where a bulk of the work is handled by resident doctors.“We have received verbal assurances from the minister, however, we will not take back our strike till something concrete is done,” said Dr Suvrankar Dutta, general secretary of the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA), one of the two associations leading the nation-wide strike.The doctors, after consulting resident doctors’ association from across the country, decided on Monday night that they will continue to not work in OPD but will not withdraw from other services till Friday.“In the meeting with the minister on Saturday, as well as a meeting in the health ministry today, we received assurance that all documents that the Centre had to submit to the Supreme Court will be submitted by Wednesday and they will push for emergency hearing of the case. So, we have given time till Friday. If nothing happens we will withdraw from all routine work,” said Dr Manish Kumar, president of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association, the other organisation leading the protests.Another delegation of resident doctors had met the union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday in Surat and received the same assurances as well, according to Dr Dutta. So far, no cases of the new variant has been confirmed in India.This is a matter of concern as the government now need to prepare healthcare infrastructure for the omicron variant that is now spreading to several countries.In addition, resident doctors from Hindu Rao hospital continue their strike demanding payment of salaries and pending allowances. The senior doctors from the hospital, who had also planned to go on strike Monday onwards, have called it off as it would have rendered the hospitals, dispensaries, maternity and TB clinics under the north corporation dysfunctional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5000-resident-doctors-from-delhi-strike-to-protest-alleged-delays-in-neet-counselling-101638212608655.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||State issues SOP for schools, vaccines mandatory for staff||MUMBAI Maharashtra government on Monday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for all schools to reopen for physical classes from December 1. Only those staff members and students with no symptoms of Covid-19 will be allowed in the classroom. The government’s order says there should be no crowding in school buses, wearing of masks is compulsory for everyone, a distance of six feet has to be maintained, and all teaching and non-teaching staff should be vaccinated. Schools located in containment zones will not be allowed to open; neither will students living in containment areas be allowed to attend physical classes. The SOP was issued by the directorate of health services (DHS) while an order allowing resumption of offline classes from December 1 was issued by the school education department. On November 25, the state government had decided to reopen schools across the state from December 1. Prior to this, all classes barring Class 1 to 4 in rural areas and Class 1 to 7 in urban areas had resumed in the offline mode. The SOP says, “Students who are unwell should avoid going to school. Activities such as mass prayers and sports must be avoided as they can lead to crowding; schools should refrain from using biometric attendance, swimming pools and follow strict Covid protocols for using gymnasiums.” The SOP also lays down the guidelines in case a student is found Covid positive. “There is no need to panic in case a student is found with Covid-19 symptoms. Inform the parents and medical facility and keep the student in a separate room until he or she is attended by a doctor. Make a list of students who can be considered as close contacts and quarantine them at home for two weeks. The list includes students sitting up to three benches on the front, back, right and left rows of the classroom. Conduct RT-PCR for students developing Covid-19 symptoms and even though there is no symptom, get them tested within a period of five to ten days from the day he or she was home quarantined.” The state has directed the schools to make arrangements for online classes of students quarantined at home, check the temperature of students for the next 10 days, and disinfect the classroom. It has also made it mandatory for the schools to review the Covid-19 preventive action plan in case five or more students are found Covid positive in two weeks. They are also advised to take sufficient measures to ensure that an atmosphere of fear is not created in schools and among parents after students or staff found infected with Covid-19. However, the order issued by the school education department directs the empowered committees to ensure school is shut down as soon as they find any student infected with Covid-19. On August 10, the school education department formed empowered committees to ensure the guidelines and SOP being followed for reopening of schools in the state. In urban areas, the committee headed by a municipal commissioner has been empowered to take decisions while for rural areas committees are headed by district collectors. The education department order reads, “Students having any symptoms should be immediately sent back to home and ensure he or she is tested for Covid-19. If found positive, the school should be immediately closed and sanitised. Students came in close contact should be tested for Covid-19.” HT reached out to school education minister Varsha Gaikwad and additional chief secretary, school education Vandana Krishna to ask for clarifications for the contradictory guidelines. Neither responded to calls and text messages. Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope said to ABP Mazha TV news channel, “There is no need to impose any restrictions and schools will reopen on December 1 as announced… there is no need to panic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-issues-sop-for-schools-vaccines-mandatory-for-staff-101638212432718.html
30-11-2021||Other||Deoria youth arrested for posting misleading photo, information about UP TET||Lucknow A 25-year-old youth was arrested in Deoria district on Sunday night, for allegedly sharing a fake photo of UP Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) aspirants sleeping on a railway platform on his social media account, said police officials on Monday. The youth was booked under relevant sections of the IT Act for sharing misinformation and offensive post on social media platform to defame the state government, they said.Confirming the arrest, a Deoria police official said that the accused was identified as Prince Yadav, a resident of Baghi village under Maeel police station limits of the district. An FIR was lodged against him after the cyber cell alerted local cops about the misleading post shared by the accused from his Facebook account, the official said. https://twitter.com/UPPViralCheck/status/1464965066877374477He said that the accused posted the photograph stating it as the scene at a railway platform where several examinees were sleeping in open in cold night to appear in the UPTET examination next morning, but the exam was cancelled due to the paper leak. The post read that the examinees had to suffer a lot due to mismanagement. “When crosschecked, the photograph was found to be of some other state and it had nothing to do with UPTET. The accused was tracked down through his social media account. He was arrested from his house and further legal proceeding was initiated,” the official said. The cyber cell of the state police was regularly keeping a vigil on social media platforms and taking action against such users posting false and misleading information, he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deoria-youth-arrested-for-posting-misleading-photo-information-about-up-tet-101638212430692.html
30-11-2021||Other||Kashi’s refurbished Khidkiya Ghat set to attract tourists||Khidkiya Ghat – which has been equipped with various facilities, like a food court, open air theatre, a parking lot, a CNG-filling station and a lot more – is all set to attract tourists.The ghat, next to Rajghat, is called Khidkiya Ghat because it is like a window to Varanasi, from where the crescent shape of the Ganga flowing, with 84 ghats on its west side, is clearly visible.The ghat has been equipped with amenities and facilities under a tourism development project worth ₹35 crore, said Shakambhari Nandan Sonthalia of Varanasi Smart City, adding that the ghat is ready. It has been beautified and art work has been done on it.There is proper space for anchoring boats. Devotees may reach Kashi Vishwanath Corridor by boats as the KV Corridor has a gate at Ganga ghat. People may board the boats and enjoy boating.Regional tourism officer, Varanasi, Keertiman Srivastava said that Khidkiya Ghat is going to be a major attraction for tourists and it will decongest ghats, and tourists will get a new destination. It is a well-managed ghat with special focus on sanitation, said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashis-refurbished-khidkiya-ghat-set-to-attract-tourists-101638212428847.html
30-11-2021||Mumbai||Authorities to trace passengers flown into Mumbai with South Africa returnee||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said that it will conduct contact tracing of flyers who travelled with a 32-year-old passenger from Dombivli, landed in Mumbai from South Africa via Delhi. The man who tested positive for Covid has been kept under isolation by the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body.According to civic authorities, the 32-year-old Dombivli resident returned from South Africa via Dubai and Delhi to Mumbai on November 24. According to officials, a sample of the passenger was taken at Delhi airport subject to which he was allowed to board a flight to Mumbai. After arriving in the city, he went home in a cab. A BMC official said, “We are going to do contact tracing of the passengers in Mumbai. This means we will trace and screen the passengers a few rows around the seat of the infected passengers. We will also certainly trace the cab driver with whom he went to Dombivli from Mumbai Airport.”Officials from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said the passenger was put in institutional quarantine on Sunday where he is stable now. Dr Pratibha Panpatil, Health Officer at KDMC said, “We have tested the family of the South Africa returnee and they tested negative. The passenger is also stable now and his reports of genomic sequencing are awaited. We are doing contact tracing in coordination with BMC officials. For now, things are under control.”Meanwhile, according to BMC officials around 466 people have come from countries of concern in the last two weeks. Of these, 97 were contacted and none are positive. The BMC is expected to undertake a follow-up RT-PCR test on Monday for the above 97 travellers.The BMC had on Saturday issued an advisory requesting citizens to take more precautions. The BMC had on Saturday said that all international passengers arriving at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) from “countries of concern” including countries from Africa, would be made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, and if found positive, would be sent to an institutional quarantine centre while their samples would be sent to the city’s genome sequencing lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/authorities-to-trace-passengers-flown-into-mumbai-with-south-africa-returnee-101638212308947.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Omicron ready: Mixing of vaccines might be an option, says ICMR former chief, Dr Gangakhedkar||PUNE Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), now part of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) scientific advisory group on the origins of novel pathogens said that a lot of questions till needs to be answered in light of the new Covid variant, Omicron. He added that a “mixing strategy”, which is mixing two doses of the Covid vaccine, or taking a a booster dose, are options that need to be looked at. He also said that the decision to reduce the gap between two doses should be considered as it should not reduce the efficacy, or the immunogenicity of the particular vaccine, which the Omicron variant might affect even in its current process. Although Dr Gangakhedkar said that it is too early to panic due to the new variant, since we do not know if it increases hospitalisation or deaths, but we only know now that it has a high rate of transmission. During the meeting when questioned about booster doses he said, “When we talk about reducing the gap between two doses we must be very careful while deciding on that to ensure that by reducing the gap we would do not reduce the efficacy or the immunogenicity of that particular vaccine. The variants themselves will reduce the efficacy of the vaccine. Instead we must prioritise fully immunising those who have a comorbidity or are aged above 45 years. We must develop vaccine coverage.”Since confirmation of the new variant, the state health minister and various experts have commented on the need to give booster vaccine doses, however, Dr Gangakhedkar said that giving a booster dose of the same vaccine might not be a wise decision. He said, “We are fortunate that we have not started booster doses because in any case we are going to use the same old vaccines which are based on the Wuhan virus, but you are now looking are the large number of mutations which have occured in the spike protein region which would mean infections would continue to occur. How much of protection you would provide by using the same old vaccine is a question which perhaps can be addressed better if we wait for the data to emerge. “In my mind instead of using the first generation vaccine, the second generation should be used, but the second generation vaccine would not be made available in India as soon as we think,” he said, adding, “A mixing strategy would perhaps become good over a period of time. There has been no discussion on this issue so far, but maybe Covaxin and Novavax could work, because Novavax tends to have 16 different subunits or spike proteins, so some of them would continue to really useful and it is immunogenic. Those who have got Covishield could be give Covaxin as the booster. These questions are unaddressed and need lot of brainstorming.” Dr Raman Gangakhedkar is also the Dr CG Pandit National Chair at the ICMR after he retired as chief of ICMR in July 2020. Dr Gangakhedkar was director-incharge of the National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune, before he moved to the ICMR headquarters in Delhi. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2020 for his service and his research on HIV/AIDS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-ready-mixing-of-vaccines-might-be-an-option-says-icmr-former-chief-dr-gangakhedkar-101638212250208.html
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man arrested for impersonating in exam||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly appearing in an examination for recruitment in the Border Security Force (BSF) by impersonating a candidate after taking ₹1.5 lakh, police said. A vigilance team of BSF caught him red-handed at a private school in Khandsa where the examination was held on Sunday, said police.Amit Kumar, deputy commandant, board member of BSF, said that Partik Singh of Hisar was arrested on Sunday for trying to take the examination for the post of assistant sub-inspector in BSF for another candidate. Kumar said the suspect is an engineer and had taken ₹1.5 lakh to appear in the candidate’s place and assured him to clear the examination. Police registered an FIR under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), and 120 B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Badshahpur police station on Sunday. “Prima facie, it looks like it is a work of a gang. Partik told us during questioning that he did it for money, but this was his first time. We are questioning him to check if he was earlier also involved in a similar case,” said Dinkar (who goes by his first name), station house officer of Badshahpur police station. In August last year five persons were arrested for allegedly cheating in a BSF constable recruitment exam. While four were cheating using a Bluetooth device, one was caught impersonating a candidate and taking the exam in his place, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-arrested-for-impersonating-in-exam-101638212248713.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana trader accuses ACP of threatening him, probe ordered||A trader has filed a complaint with police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar against an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) for allegedly threatening him into withdrawing his petition against him in Punjab and Haryana high court. Bhullar has marked a probe in the case to additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Parminder Singh Heer.The complainant, Jaspreet Singh, 34, stated that the Division Number 3 police had booked him in 2015 for opening fire in the air. Randhir Singh, who was the SHO at the time, had seized his licensed revolver and 10 live cartridges. Randhir was later promoted as ACP.He added that the FIR was cancelled, but the police did not return the weapon. Then, he filed a petition in the HC and the court had sought a reply from the police in the case. Jaspreet in his complaint alleged that Randhir has been threatening him to withdraw the petition. ACP Randhir Singh, who has been posted as ACP, licensing unit, said the court has not approved the cancellation of the FIR yet. Moreover, the arms licence of Jaspreet was cancelled, so the weapon cannot be returned. The ACP has refuted the allegations of threatening him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-trader-accuses-acp-of-threatening-him-probe-ordered-101638212128683.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||PM CARES Fund: HC notice to PMO, information commission||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and Central Information Commission (CIC) on a plea challenging denial of information under the Right to Information Act (RTI) about the PM CARES Fund. The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) was created on March 27, 2020, following the Covid-19 outbreak in India. The stated purpose was to combat and contain the virus and undertake relief efforts during the present and future pandemics. A Punjab lawyer, Nitin Mittoo, had sought information about the fund from the public information officer (PIO), PMO, under the RTI through online mode last year. On June 15, 2020, the PMO denied the information, solely on the ground that since it was related to PM CARES Fund, it does not fall under the ambit of public authority under the RTI Act, Mittoo stated in his petition before the high court (HC). The plea seeks directions to the CIC to decide his second appeal filed under the RTI Act, which was registered on September 23, 2020, and is pending to date. The HC bench of justice HS Madaan has sought a response from the CIC through the chief information commissioner, New Delhi; first appellate authority-cum-deputy secretary, PMO; and the PIO by January 6, 2022.What info was soughtThe lawyer had sought details about the cabinet resolution, other information related to advertisements put up about the fund and the money donated.Since the PMO is a government authority, dealing with affairs of the said fund, then the same shall fall under the category of public authority, the petition claims, adding that PM CARES is a trust developed by the Prime Minister as the settler not in his personal capacity but in the capacity of the Prime Minister of India. Hence, information should be provided, it adds. The petition further mentions that on June 30, 2020, he appealed before the first appellate authority, PMO, which upheld the PIO’s decision on August 20, 2020. On September 23, 2020, he appealed against it before the CIC. Reminders were sent on May 17 and June 30 this year, but the CIC has not decided the appeal, the petition states. Seeking directions that the appeal be decided within the stipulated time of 30 days, Mittoo further said in his plea that the delay in deciding the appeal denies the right of the petitioner to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-cares-fund-hc-notice-to-pmo-information-commission-101638212069795.html
30-11-2021||Pune||SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium has 5 Pune labs tracking Omicron||PUNE With threat of Omicron variant of Covid lingering, the state administration has now asked the laboratories to prepare for genome sequencing of samples in the coming days. Of the 28 laboratories in the country that are part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) group, five are from Pune, a highest for any city in the country. Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao on Monday said, “As of Sunday evening nothing adverse has been reported with no samples tested positive so far for the Omicron variant. However the laboratories are fully geared to do genome sequencing in full swing and we are fully utilizing the labs as well. According to Rao the administration is in touch with NCL and ISSER. The primary goal of INSACOG is to begin sequencing work on Covid-19 positive samples sent in from across the country. In the wake of the new Covid variant, Omicron, these five labs are now geared up to restart genome sequencing. At least 650 samples have been sent for genome sequencing to various labs in Pune of samples that have tested positive for the infection. However, experts have also said that specific RTPCR test kits should be used for detecting the infection to reduce the load on labs for genome sequencing. The five labs that are part of INSACOG also form the Pune-COG consortium of laboratories that work on Pune samples. These include National Centre for Cell Sciences, (NCCS), National Institute of Virology (NIV), National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), BJ Medical College and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER). INSACOG is a multi-laboratory, multi-agency, pan-India network to monitor genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 by a sentinel sequencing effort.Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of the Microbiology department at BJ Medical College said, “Looking at the threat of Omicron, RTPCR positive samples from November are being processed by targeted accelerated sequencing. Around 100 samples have been sent to NIV, 350 to IISER and NCL, 100 samples to be processed at BJMC and 100 samples to be sent to IGIB, New Delhi. These could be Delta positives and are from the Pune and Ahmednagar region alone.” The expert viewExperts also said that the specific RTPCR kits should be used for the detection of the new variant among samples. Dr Neeta Munshi who is associated with Ruby Hall said, “We have come across several articles that state that if the S-Gene is present in the detection kit then it would pick up the Omicron variant, otherwise the RTPCR kit may not be able to pick up this particular variant. However, we do not have any practical experience on the same as of yet.” Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), now part of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) scientific advisory group, said, “The S gene drop out gives us a fairly good indication that whether it is a new variant or an alpha variant that comes sform alpha lineage. So one has to look at using kits like Taqpath, which would be useful in reducing unnecessary load on genomic sequencing. In current genomic sequencing the delta variant continues to be a predominant variant which is there in India and even if we do more genomic sequencing it may not yield in more samples and so we need to have a smart strategy.” Ministry of health and family welfare issues guidelines for travellersOn Monday the central ministry of health and family welfare issued a set of guidelines with regards to international travellers and the new variant of concern, Omicron, with which it directed states/UTs to proactively ensure testing as per guidelines and to send positive samples for Whole Genome Sequencing. “They should also proactively liaise with other States/UTs to ensure effective follow-up of international travellers after disembarking. All passengers from ‘At-Risk’ countries are mandated to be subjected to RT-PCR testing upon arrival. Random RT-PCR testing must also be done for passengers from all other countries,” the directive stated.“The individuals turning positive must be managed at separate isolation facilities as per guidelines, and the results must be sent expeditiously for Whole Genome Sequencing. The contacts of positive travellers must be kept under institutional/home quarantine and must be strictly monitored by the States/UTs. The untested passengers and those turning RT-PCR negative must be followed up by the State Surveillance Units on Day 2 and Day 5, and their RT-PCR test must be conducted, if found symptomatic. They should ensure that every international traveller from these “At-Risk” countries is accounted for, tested, and positive samples sent promptly for Whole Genome Sequencing to designated INSACOG Genome sequencing Laboratories (IGSLs). The sentinel and surge surveillance through the Sentinel Surveillance Sites established in the States/UTs must also be carried out as per INSACOG Guidelines, to ensure that all such positive samples are sent expeditiously for Whole Genome Sequencing,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sarscov2-genomics-consortium-has-5-pune-labs-tracking-omicron-101638212008739.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Jal Board did not provide accounts for audit, CAG informs Delhi HC||The Comptroller and Auditor General ( CAG) informed the Delhi high court last month that the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) did not provide its accounts for audit despite several written correspondences.The CAG filed the affidavit in response to a plea by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Harish Khurana seeking direction to CAG to audit the DJB’s accounts, alleging there has not been an audit in the last six years.In the affidavit, filed before a bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, CAG said that there was no negligence on their part as DJB did not provide them with their accounts in the first place.“The office made several correspondences seeking accounts for audit from Delhi Jal Board and higher authorities of Delhi government. That as the accounts were not made available for audit, the audit could not be accomplished,” the central auditing body said.CAG said that during the last six years, seven pending accounts prior to the financial year 2015-16 were audited but the rest of the accounts were not made available to them.“That as the accounts were not made available for audit, the audit could not be accomplished. On making available the accounts of Delhi Jal Board, the answering respondent (CAG) undertakes to conclude the Audit of Delhi Jal Board as expeditiously as possible,” CAG said.Meanwhile, DJB also filed a response, saying that Khurana’s plea was “politically motivated”. It said that all accounts of the DJB were maintained “diligently”.DJB said that the final accounts and balance sheet up to the year 2014-15 were audited by the CAG, based on which the final accounts and balance sheet of the year 2015-16 was prepared as well. It was scheduled to be placed before the board at the next board meeting for confirmation before being forwarded to the office of the principal accountant general (audit) for the audit.“Consequently, as the accounts for 2014-15 have recently been audited by the CAG in August 2021, the accounts for 2015-16 incorporating the inputs from audited accounts of 2014-15 have been revised and finalised... However, it is inaccurate to state that accounts have not been maintained by the Respondent No. 2 (DJB), inasmuch as all accounts are being maintained by them as required by law till date, and only require finalisation in terms of the audited accounts of the previous year before being submitted for audit,” the DJB’s response read.Questioning the maintainability of the plea, DJB alleged that the Khurana filed the petition based on RTIs filed by a third party.The matter was listed on Monday, but could not be heard as the judge was on leave.Khurana’s petition said that in response to RTIs dated May 11, May 24, and July 22 this year, it was clearly stated that the copy of the balance sheet for the year 2015-16 and onward is under preparation.The plea said since the authorities have failed to perform the functions laid down under the law, the petitioner was approaching the court with the petition.“It is mandatory to maintain financial accounts and conduct an annual audit of the accounts, in order to ascertain effective functioning of the state and local bodies. Maintaining financial accounts and conducting an annual audit of the accounts help to secure accountability, transparency of the state and local bodies functioning towards the general public,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jal-board-did-not-provide-accounts-for-audit-cag-informs-delhi-hc-101638211889859.html
30-11-2021||Pune||PMC stops payment of staff from merged villages, Ajit Pawar orders probe||PUNE: Following allegations of bogus recruitment, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stopped paying salaries of employees working at the 23 merged villages since the past six months amid a probe launched by the state government. The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) had submitted a list of 926 employees working in these merged villages before withdrawing the list. Later, it submitted a list of 1,130 employees, raising suspicion that some of the recruitments were done post government decision to merge villages into PMC in December 2013. On Saturday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said he has ordered to scrutinise all the recruitments made post the merger decision. “I have received feedback from the zilla parishad chief executive officer (CEO) that some recruitments were done post-merger decision in anticipation that they will henceforth be employees of PMC. I have ordered probe into this,” said Pawar. There were allegations made that as the villages were set to be merged in the PMC, additional people were recruited for various posts under political pressure during the transition period. Some elected members Siddharth Dhende, Baburao Chandere, Amol Balwadkar and Deepali Dhumal raised the issue of recruitment in these villages at the eleventh hour and demanded inquiry at PMC level. However, some members are in favour of restoring salaries to the staff since six months have passed. The elected members from PMC said that it is true that the payments should not be stopped for long period but at the same time PMC need to take care of bogus employees. PMC estate department head Rajendra Muthe said, “Zilla parishad had given the list and later withdraws it. All of a sudden, employees number increased and even the second list was withdrawn. If PMC did not get details, it is getting difficult to do payments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-stops-payment-of-staff-from-merged-villages-ajit-pawar-orders-probe-101638211888622.html
30-11-2021||Pune||Pune administration fully prepared to fight third Covid wave in light of Omicron variant||PUNE: Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Monday said that the administration is fully prepared to fight the third wave if it comes in light of the newly confirmed Omicron variant of Covid-19. During a virtual interaction with officials and citizens’ groups, Rao said that the administration has adequate oxygen and drugs but given that the new variant has a transmissibility rate of about 500 to 600 times that of the delta variant, it could be really challenging for the administration to cope up with the needs and so, prevention is the only cure.“In the past few months, we have trained over 5,000 medical and paramedical staff and if required, the contractual staff would be re-hired based on our requirements. The State Disaster Relief Fund will also pitch in as we have already discussed about it with the state government. We are definitely in a better position with regards to oxygen and drugs than we were in April but since the R-Naught factor of the new variant is 1.93 which is much higher than any variant, we must prevent the infection,” he said. Rao said that the same strategy will be adopted to deal with the new variant if at all it enters the country however it is important to shed the fatigue that has crept into the machinery after working for close to two years. “The task may sound repetitive but that is the key. We have successfully faced three variants and then we hoped that life had returned to complete normalcy to the extent that we decided to restart schools from December 1.”Rao also said that the administration is conducting audit for all Covid-19 centres, including fire and electrical audits. With regards to the Jumbo centre, the administration has decided to continue paying the rent and hold the structure, he said. They will wait for a month and then take a call, he added. “Although we have put a ban on a few flights and even chalked out a strategy to screen international passengers, it is likely that the variant will enter India,” he warned.Rao added that along with ensuring that Pune city and rural are self-sufficient in terms of demand during the second wave, the administration has also ensured that Covid-19 facilities in the neighbouring districts of Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and Sangli are sufficient in the event the third wave hits us hard.Dr R Gangakhedkar, former ICMR chief who was part of the meeting, said, “Although the new variant is highly transmissible, we do not know if it might lead to more hospitalisation or more deaths and so, we should not panic because panic could be counter-productive. There will surely be an outbreak due to the new variant because we must remember that despite the most effective lockdown before the first wave which also got a great response from the people, we could not prevent the outbreak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-administration-fully-prepared-to-fight-third-covid-wave-in-light-of-omicron-variant-101638211770248.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-level science fair held at PAU govt school||A state-level science activities exhibition-cum-state science fair was organised on Monday by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU Campus, under the Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyaan (RAA).A total of 44 students from 22 districts of Punjab participated in two categories (Classes 6 to 8 and 9 to 10).In the first category, Arjoi Kaur of GGSS School, Gill, Ludhiana; Navdeep Kaur of GMS, Kotkapura and Kamalpreet Kaur of GMS, Bir –Badhni, Moga, bagged the first, second and third positions, respectively. In the secondary category, Sahil Khan of GSSS, Bhalwan, Sangrur; Devinder Kaur of GHS, Datal, Patiala and Manjot Kaur of GHS, Upli, Barnala, bagged the top three positions, respectively.SCERT director Jarnail Singh Kaleka was the chief guest on the occasion. He said that the fair aims to inculcate a scientific temperament among government school students. Jasbir Singh Sekhon, district mentor, science, further elaborated that the scientific models of the students were based on their curriculum and syllabus.“It is amazing to see our young students excel in their scientific innovations, including electromagnetic induction, current, resistance neutralisation reaction, reflection of light and magnetic effect, electroscope multiple images etc., showcasing extraordinary scientific temperament,” said DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra.Education minister gives event a missMeanwhile, Punjab education minister Pargat Singh, who was supposed to be the chief guest on the occasion, gave a miss to the event.A teacher privy to the matter said that the event had even been preponed by a day on the request of the minister as he cited his busy schedule on Tuesday. Board welcoming him had also been put up outside the school.“It was disappointing for us that he couldn’t make it, as we had put in loads of effort,’’ said a senior official from the education department. However, when contacted, the minister’s office said it was conveyed that he couldn’t make it due to the cabinet meeting on Monday.Teen found dead: Parents blame school for carelessnessHigh drama was witnessed at PAU government school on Monday when parents of a student who was found dead on Saturday in Sidhwan Canal, near South City, barged into the ongoing state science exhibition.They snatched the mic from the organisers and blamed the school for careless attitude and defunct cameras. The sobbing mother said that her son, Baljit Singh, went to the school to attend evening classes but never returned on November 16. A missing report was lodged at police station PAU regarding his disappearance.Harjit Singh, father of Baljit Singh stepped on to the stage of the school during the science exhibition function and had heated arguments with the school authorities. Eventually, the school authorities consoled the family and said that police will resolve the case. A tribute was also paid to Baljit on the stage.According to the school teachers, Baljit had left the school after dropping his bag.On Friday, the police found his motorcycle parked near the canal and his mobile phone was lying on it. On Saturday the police fished out the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjablevel-science-fair-held-at-pau-govt-school-101638211652424.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC praises authorities for steps to free up trees of concrete in the city||The Delhi high court on Monday praised the authorities’ efforts to deconcretise trees in various parts of the Capital, saying that the efforts need to continue.“This is good work...You have definitely done a lot of good work. It is evident…See it is done continuously. Good work by everybody…I was wondering whether you would do it or not because the order was not uploaded,” justice Waziri said.While hearing a plea by a resident of Vasant Vihar against the concretisation of trees, the court perused the photos of the work to deconcretise trees the South Delhi Municipal (SDMC) provided.On Friday, the court had come down heavily on the authorities on the concretisation of trees and rampant construction in the national Capital. It said that these activities were changing neighbourhoods and making people feel like aliens in their own environment. It was the “worst kind of human rights abuse”, the judge had said.The court noted that trees have also been deconcretised in Lajpat Nagar and said, “Kitne logon ki duayen lagi hogi aapko…[a lot of people would have blessed you].”HT reported in December last year that of the total 4,993 trees on the streets of Vasant Vihar, 3,859 were heavily concretised. A tree census conducted by local residents showed over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites. Based on HT’s report a complaint was filed with the Delhi forest department by environmental activists, and a petition was also filed at the Delhi high court. The report has also been quoted in the petition.The court also cited the example of Singapore and said that it is called a “garden city” because there is continuous monitoring of green patches there.“Do you know why Singapore is known as the garden city? In that city, the gardeners reach at 4am and continue their work till 7am. Then from 8am, another group comes and maintains the lawns and gardens, till the traffic increases. Then again at 11am-12pm when there is no traffic, the gardeners come back. It is monitored throughout the day. That’s how the city looks beautiful and attracts people,” the judge said.Justice Waziri also cited the example of Mumbai’s Lower Parel area where pavements are being re-done to encourage more citizens to come out and walk.During the proceedings, the judge also asked residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to help maintain trees and gardens around residential colonies.“Encourage the citizens’ participation…They will be happy to help,” the court said.A detailed order in the matter is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-praises-authorities-for-steps-to-free-up-trees-of-concrete-in-the-city-101638211648734.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Two arrested in Delhi with marijuana worth ₹50 lakh||A huge quantity of marijuana (ganja) worth at least ₹50 lakh was seized by the Narcotics Cell of Delhi Police on Monday. DCP crime branch (narcotics) Chinmoy Biswal said that the suspects were identified as Shazeb Choudhary (23) and Sushil (44), who goes by his first name. Biswal said that continuing its crackdown on smuggling of drugs, the staff of Narcotics Cell was put on a task to curb drug trafficking.“Our team received information that a shipment of marijuana was being transported to Delhi. Acting on the tip, we laid a trap near the Wazirabad flyover and intercepted a truck and a car and nabbed the duo. We seized over 300kg of marijuana from their possession,” DCP Biswal said.The men were transporting this consignment from the hinterlands of Odisha to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Soon after this, the Crime Branch registered a case against the men.Police said that the marijuana was hidden beneath vegetable crates in the truck. Police said Choudhary’s interrogation revealed that the marijuana was being brought from Odisha and belongs to one Akram. Choudhary disclosed that he was assigned to deliver the contraband to some men in Majnu Ka Tila in Delhi and then somewhere in UP via the truck. Akram had hired the car, which belonged to Sushil, to follow the truck.Police said they have identified the kingpin of this syndicate, who is based in Badaun and has a network in Delhi. The Narcotics Cell is conducting raids in Badaun and Bareilly in UP to nab him and his associates who are on the run.This year, Delhi Police (Narcotics Cell) busted several interstate narcotics smuggling networks. This year, they recovered 8568.867kg of marijuana, much higher compared to 4396.329kg in 2020 and 5447.532kg in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-arrested-in-delhi-with-marijuana-worth-50-lakh-101638211528582.html
30-11-2021||Pune||15,045 properties get 5% rebate for installing solar power in Pune||PUNE: After the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) offered a five per cent tax rebate for properties with an operable rainwater harvesting system and/or solar water heating system, more properties have filed to get the benefit. However, Bharatiya Janata Party member Saraswati Shedge questioned the property tax as to how many citizens have claimed rebates for installing solar power. In a written reply, Vilas Kandae, head property tax department, PMC said, “The number of properties is increasing every year. In the last financial year, a total of 15,045 properties have taken the benefit of five per cent rebate. This has increased from 2019-2020 financial year, where there were only 13,389 properties”. According to the property tax department officials, a ten per cent rebate on property tax is offered to citizens for installing rainwater harvesting system, solar water heating system and a garbage management system. The citizens are offered a five per cent rebate for installing only the solar power. The rebate is given only if these systems are operational. After checking all documents, that includes photographs of the solar power system and photocopy of the bills, rebate is granted in the same financial year. This facility is available for residential properties only. Power of Solar No. of properties that received 5% rebate Year Total properties 2016-17 12,091 2017-18 10,350 2018-19 11,748 2019-20 13,389 2020-21 15,045||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15045-properties-get-5-rebate-for-installing-solar-power-in-pune-101638211468833.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police bust online cheating racket||The Delhi Police special cell has busted a racket helping people cheat online competitive exams and arrested three persons, including the two masterminds from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, for allegedly running the operation.Police said the suspects used software tools to remotely take over the aspirants’ computer and take the competitive test on their behalf. Investigators said over 200 people had hired their services to crack such tests.Many competitive exams, including by private institutions, had switched to the online route since the Covid pandemic.According to police, the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) Unit of Special Cell received information that several services for cheating in competitive exams are available on the dark web. “So a decoy was arranged to crack a deal for an online certification exam... The suspects were contacted over VoIP (voice over internet protocol) communication and the desired sum of money was transferred to the account provided by the alleged person,” said deputy commissioner of police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra.The DCP said that the suspects used a software to enable remote access of the decoy’s laptop and took the test on October 25. “The decoy candidate was declared passed in the exam...,” he said.During the investigation, the phone number, bank account and internet usage of one of the suspect, identified as D Shah, was tracked to Ahmedabad and he was arrested on November 24.Later his father, R Kumar, who runs a IT training centre, was also arrested and the police found that the duo allegedly “assured 100% guarantee for clearing certification exams” on the behalf of aspirants.Police also arrested A Alam, a resident of Shaheen Bagh, who allegedly took the exams on behalf of the aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-online-cheating-racket-101638211414412.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU to organise drive to promote consumption of fish||The College of Fisheries (CoF), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, will conduct a fish consumption awareness drive throughout December. Various activities including a fish food festival and competitions including poster making and slogan writing will be organised, which will see active participation from students of the varsity.India is the second largest aquaculture producer in the world. However, fish-eating population in the country is estimated to be only 55%, with an average annual per capita fish consumption (PCFC) of about 9kg, which is less than half of the world average (20kg).Among Indian states, Tripura tops in terms of PCFC (29kg), while it is more than 50 kg in islands like Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep.Meera D Ansal, dean of CoF, GADVASU, said that PCFC is very less in the north-western region of the country. It is only 0.4 kg in Punjab and lowest in Rajasthan (0.01 kg), against the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended PCFC of 12 kg.She also highlighted the nutrition values of fish including protein content/quality, easy digestibility, omega-3 Poly unsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), minerals (calcium, phosphorus, iron, zinc, iodine, potassium and magnesium) and vitamins (A, D, B2 and E).Fish is well known for its functional properties boosting immunity, vision and heart health, with significant role in brain development in growing children. Unlike coastal states, the non-vegetarian population of Punjab prefers to eat chicken, chevon/mutton, pork etc. and nevertheless, most of its small fish-eating population prefers to eat spineless fish. Applauding the initiative, Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of GADVASU, said that Punjab with its total fish production of 1.5 lakh tones, has resources to easily double its production and offer annual per capita fish availability of 10 kg to the existing estimated population of about 3 crores. The fisheries sector presents enormous socio-economic growth in terms of food, nutritional security, livelihood, employment opportunities and revenue generation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadasu-to-organise-drive-to-promote-consumption-of-fish-101638211413286.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Ration delivery beneficiaries can opt out at any point, Delhi govt tells HC||The state government on Monday told the Delhi high court that doorstep deliveries had become a norm as it defended its ration delivery programme and said that the scheme should be appreciated, even as it assured that beneficiaries could opt out at any time.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that states like Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, as well as cities like Bengaluru in Karnataka have in place identical doorstep delivery schemes.Everything has been home delivered over the past years, Singhvi said.“It is a complete misconception or [has been] wrongly implied that fair price shops (FPS) will cease to exist. Doorstep delivery is an optional scheme and beneficiaries can opt out anytime. This is nothing but proxy litigation set up by somebody else who is not the petitioner,” he said.The scheme has become another flashpoint between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government and the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, with the former saying that the plan violates the provisions of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and will deprive migrants of foodgrains, and the latter pointing out that it will root out the ration mafia and ensure that all beneficiaries get their ration.He said the Delhi high court did not stay the programme, despite which the Lieutenant Governor (LG) has stalled the scheme, citing the pending litigation. He further contended that not a single beneficiary has questioned the mode and manner of implementation of the scheme.The Lieutenant Governor’s office did not respond to requests for comment.The Delhi government is contesting a petition by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, a group of FPS owners, in which they have challenged the doorstep ration delivery scheme and demanded that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority).Arguments will continue on December 3.During the proceedings, the bench said that the fair price shops (FPS) should not be ousted from the system with the implementation of the scheme.“The Centre’s submission is that FPS is an integral part of the NFSA, therefore, you cannot do away with that,” the bench said.During the hearing, additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Centre, said the court should not allow any state to interfere with the structure of NFSA and destroy its architecture.“As Union of India, we are only concerned with complete compliance of NFSA,” she submitted.On November 15, the Supreme Court declined to entertain two separate petitions (one by the Centre and another by FPS owners) against a Delhi high court interim order on September 27 that allowed the AAP government to stop supplying foodgrain to fixed price shops for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.The high court verdict also effectively gave a go-ahead to the state government scheme.The apex court said since the high court verdict was interim, and the court was still seized of the matter, it would not like to entertain the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ration-delivery-beneficiaries-can-opt-out-at-any-point-delhi-govt-tells-hc-101638211408635.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for assaulting, robbing Delhi cop||Delhi Police arrested a man on Monday who robbed and thrashed a police constable, after which he went on to shoot a gun at a property dealer’s office in Jahangirpuri area. Police said that the man has a criminal history and is involved in cases such as attempt to murder and armed robberies.Deputy commissioner of police (Outer North) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said that the man and his associate assaulted and robbed a beat constable of Jahangirpuri police station on Thursday, and pointed a pistol at him, after which he fired rounds at the office of a property dealer.Speaking of the incident, DCP Yadav said that on Thursday, beat constable Amardeep was on duty in the area. He said two people started walking behind him and hurling abuses at him.When the constable stopped him and identified himself, one of them took out a pistol and pressed it against his chest, but could not fire the weapon. He then started beating the constable along with his associate, robbed his wallet and left him injured. Shortly after that, he opened fire outside the office of a property dealer and then fled from there.Police said that a case was registered on Amardeep’s complaint. “Today, on the basis of technical surveillance and a tip, our team laid a trap to nab the accused, Pramod, near Narela industrial area. When the police signalled Pramod to stop, he started firing at the police. We returned fire, and Pramod was shot in the leg,” said DCP Yadav.He added an investigation was on to nab the other suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-assaulting-robbing-delhi-cop-101638211290111.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fazilka eves lift Punjab softball championship||The Fazilka girls’ team emerged champions by dominating Ferozpur 12-2 during the 21st sub-junior state softball championship organised by Punjab Softball Association at Guru Nanak Stadium on Monday.The Ludhiana team bagged the third spot by outwitting Gurdaspur 10-3.The Fazilka boys’ team had on Sunday won the championship by defeating Ludhiana. The Amritsar boys’ team secured the third position in the tournament.Pran Nath Passi, general secretary, Punjab Softball Association, along with coaches Ranjit Singh, Krishan, Nirmaljit Kaur, Ravi Dutt, Jaspreet Singh, Ramesh Kumar, Sathish Kumar and Jugal Kishore awarded the medals to the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fazilka-eves-lift-punjab-softball-championship-101638211168940.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||AAP councillors escorted out for disrupting EDMC special house meeting||A special House meeting of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on the pollution crisis in the city was disrupted after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors, demanding revocation of the suspension of their fellow party councillors, hurled bangles at the mayor’s chair on Monday. The discussion proceeded after the 13 AAP councillors, including the four women leaders who threw the bangles, were escorted out.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Agarwal said that AAP councillors were trying to disrupt the discussion. “Since they were not ready to listen anything about the failures of the Kejriwal-led Delhi government in tackling the pollution menace, the women councillors tried to disrupt the house by merely raising slogans. They even reached to the seats of the BJP councillors and tried to scuffle with them in the well. Later, the police came in the house and took them away. After that, our 21 councillors discussed the action plan to control pollution in the EDMC area,” he said. Fifteen AAP councillors were suspended on November 17 by the mayor after they allegedly disrupted a House session, seeking a discussion on rising dengue cases in the city even as the BJP councillors wanted to start off with the pollution crisis.On Monday, the four AAP councillors, who were escorted out of the House, staged a protest outside even as the session continued and the BJP councillors accused the Delhi government of intentionally turning their back towards rising pollution levels in the national capital.Agarwal said that the EDMC, with its 10 mechanical sweeping machines and 40 water sprinklers, is doing its best to control the pollution. “While the AAP councillors are trying to disrupt our pollution controlling exercises, the Delhi government is deliberately holding the EDMC’s legitimate funds. As a result of this fund crunch, we are facing difficulty in giving timely salaries to our employees,” he said. AAP councillor and leader of opposition in the EDMC, Manoj Tyagi, said that all four AAP women councillors, led by Geeta Rawat, were demanding revocation of the suspension of AAP councillors. “They were also demanding the immediate suspension of a BJP councillor who had used ‘unparliamentary’ words against the women councillors from our party. When the requests made by the women councillors fell on deaf ears of the mayor, Rawat had no option other than to hurl bangles towards the mayor’s chair, as a token of protest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-councillors-escorted-out-for-disrupting-edmc-special-house-meeting-101638211112604.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||Need special Delhi Assembly session on new excise policy: Councillor||A day after the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) ordered an inspection of all new liquor vends opening in south Delhi to ensure their compliance with municipal norms, Abhishek Dutt, councillor from Andrewsganj and leader of the Congress councillor group in SDMC, wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking a special session of the Delhi Assembly to amend the Delhi excise policy, 2021-22. “As per NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) data, around seven women get raped in Delhi every day. Crime rate in Delhi will increase because of these liquor shops and incidents of rape will also rise. Along with this, it will also ruin the lives of the youth who could get addicted to alcohol. Hence, I request you to call a special session of the Delhi Assembly and initiate a discussion on the new excise policy by way of a private bill,” Dutt wrote in his letter to Kejriwal. His main demand was that liquor shops should not be opened in residential areas, which, he said, is currently happening under the new excise regime, resulting in protests from residents. A resolution to survey and verify norm compliance was passed by the general body meeting of the civic body on Thursday. Dutt had moved the private member resolution on the day. Mukesh Suryan, the mayor of the south MCD, said on Sunday that a survey of all the liquor vends will be initiated soon and the units violating norms will be sealed. The norms include payment of conversion charges and old property tax returns, completion certificates, building by-laws and licensing norms. Delhi government has exited the retail liquor business with the new excise regime kicking in from November 17. According to this policy, the liquor business is now being handled completely by private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-special-delhi-assembly-session-on-new-excise-policy-councillor-101638211111485.html
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Engineering students press for online exams||Pressing for online examinations, students staged a three-hour protest at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College on Monday. The protesters said that college authorities were insisting on holding offline examinations , though the Covid threat had not abated. Computer Science, fifth semester, student Tawanjot Singh, said, “Our semester that should have been started in July started on September 7 due to the pandemic. Classes mostly did not take place in October, because there were a lot of festivals and holidays. Thus, only 30 to 40 classes which were actually conducted in a blended mode with the majority (approximately 60-70%) opting for the online mode.Another protester said that at the start of the semester, colleges had given students a choice between online and offline classes. “We were told that open-book tests similar to the previous years will be held. Moreover, students from other districts are reluctant to appear for offline exams as their parents are still not allowing them to travel with the new variant Omicron becoming a global threat.”The protest ended after the college authorities assured them that their concerns will be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-engineering-students-press-for-online-exams-101638211048546.html
30-11-2021||Delhi||‘Delighted’: Tamil author after BJP slum outreach posters feature his photo||On a day when BJP president JP Nadda addressed its 45-day slum outreach campaign, Jhuggi Samman Yatra, in the city, the party’s Delhi unit was red-faced on Monday after posters put up for the drive featured noted Tamil author Perumal Murugan along with other slum residents.Quoting a HT report, Murugan posted in Tamil on his Facebook page: “I’m one among those living in the slums. Delighted.” Senior Delhi BJP party leaders refused to comment on the matter.Meanwhile, addressing the drive in Patel Nagar, Nadda accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of indulging in petty politics even during the Covid-19 pandemic, claiming that he took a U-turn on vaccine procurement and misled people on the oxygen crisis in the Capital.“Kejriwal used to say that he will procure the vaccine and asked the Centre for permission again and again. But when the permission was given, he took a U-turn within 10 days and asked the Centre to provide it, and that too free of cost,” said Nadda, adding that the CM also presented wrong facts about the oxygen crisis.Hoping for a fourth term in the corporations, BJP is eyeing the support of slum clusters, which is considered an AAP stronghold, to ward off anti-incumbency. The Jhuggi Samman Yatra, which started from October 15, is focused on highlighting the Centre’s pro-poor schemes and Delhi government’s failures. The BJP president also said that the CM took credit for giving free ration to people, pointing out that it was actually provided by the Centre.He also lashed out at Kejriwal for depriving people of the benefits of the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, which promises free healthcare benefits to the poor.Praising BJP leaders for helping people during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic, Nadda said, “When other parties went into hibernation, BJP leaders and workers were out on the streets helping people with food, transportation etc. Other party leaders were active only on social media.”Nadda asked people to vote for the BJP in the upcoming elections and said that the AAP-led Delhi government has failed to deliver on its promises. “They promised to end the tanker mafia but the number of tankers has doubled during their tenure. And you all know about the quality of water,” he said.Delhi BJP Adesh Gupta said that they have got tremendous response from residents during the yatras. “The Kejriwal government has failed to deliver on its promises and, despite having funds, they have done little to improve the quality of life of people living in slum clusters,” he said.The Delhi BJP now plans to start a similar outreach campaign in unauthorised colonies and rural villages.AAP spokespersons did not respond to questions seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delighted-tamil-author-after-bjp-slum-outreach-posters-feature-his-photo-101638210868614.html
30-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan probes how 2 kids flew to US with parents after Covid+ve report||Health officials in Rajasthan’s capital Jaipur are on a case where a family of four including two children reportedly took an early morning flight out of the country on Sunday despite the two minors, aged 8 and 6, testing positive for Covid-19.Citing statements of the family’s relatives, Jaipur’s chief medical officer Dr Narottam Sharma said they appeared to have got a certificate from a doctor in Delhi that enabled the children to fly.“This is a case of gross negligence, puts the lives of other passengers at risk,” Dr Sharma said.According to guidelines by India’s Union ministry of health and family welfare, all contacts of positive persons should remain in quarantine for 10 days from onset of symptoms or from date of sampling for asymptomatic cases.Instead, Dr Sharma said, the family appears to have taken a flight out at 2am on Sunday. The positive report was communicated to the family on Saturday.Dr Sharma said the laboratory informed the administration about the positive status on Sunday afternoon. When local officials tried to contact the family at their local address for contact tracing, it turned out that they had already the country.The family, which lives in the United States, came to India about a fortnight ago to meet relatives. They also travelled to Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu and Kashmir and Bikaner district in Rajasthan.Dr Sharma said they have informed the state government’s health directorate about the case and are collecting more details about the family’s departure.Dr Sharma said health officials were told by the family’s relatives in Jaipur that the Delhi doctor certified that the children did not show any symptoms.The local health authorities have not, however, been able to access the certificate issued by the doctor. Or the circumstances under which airport authorities seem to have allowed the family to board the flight.According to the US Centres for disease control and prevention, air passengers older than 2 years need to have tested negative Covid-19 within 72 hours of departure of their flight if the passengers are fully vaccinated. For those who haven’t received both vaccine doses, this time period is 24 hours before a flight.There is also an option for passengers to produce documentation that they have recovered from Covid-19 in the last 90 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-probes-how-2-kids-flew-to-us-with-parents-after-covid-ve-report-101638196227618.html
