04-01-2021||News||Silicon Valley is in for a rough ride||updated Technology companies in the United States (US) have benefitted greatly from the pandemic. Users are spending more time on their products than ever before, while stock prices are hitting record highs. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos alone has seen his net worth rise by over $70 billion in the last year. While this may seem like a continuation of the last decade of success, Silicon Valley is facing intense political headwinds that could completely overturn the way their businesses work.With the familiar, moderate approach of the incoming Joe Biden administration, it might seem like technology companies can rest easy. But the days of regulators prioritising innovation over compliance may be over. The mood and context have completely changed, and the traditionally warm relationship between the Democratic Party and Big Tech is on the verge of becoming much more contentious. The political scrutiny that WhatsApp has faced for spreading fake news, mob violence and enabling surveillance may seem small compared to what’s coming next. Here are seven reasons why Silicon Valley is in for a rough time over the next four years. One, self regulation has failed. Perhaps the most valuable asset that the technology industry had was a cultural permission from the public to try new things. People have put up with companies cutting corners in the hope of improving on the status quo. But with YouTube recommending extremist content, Twitter getting mired in a geopolitical back-and-forth over borders, and Google accused of adopting anti-competitive practices with their payment services, the benefits of the trade-off are becoming less clear. Instead of arguing over whether there should be rules, we’re now arguing over who should make the rules and how tough they should be.Two, trust is broken. Witness how Mark Zuckerberg has gone from a national icon to a universal target of scorn and suspicion. A decade of lofty rhetoric about an open and connected world now falls flat, and a large section of the public sees Facebook as a data-hungry corporation that evades accountability and keeps its users addicted to its products. Three, the backlash is bipartisan. One of the few things that both Democrats and Republicans agree on nowadays is that the technology industry has become too powerful. Whether it is Amazon decimating small businesses or Instagram sapping the attention of the country’s youth, it’s hard not to see an imbalance of power. There is growing consensus that allowing a small group of billionaires so much control over speech can be damaging for society.Four, scrutiny is increasing inside Silicon Valley. Google used to promise to do no evil; now it appears to be suppressing anyone who suggests it may be doing harm. A recent controversy over the removal of Timnit Gebru, a well-known Google artificial intelligence ethics researcher, shows how bad this has become. Gebru co-authored a paper that warned about the societal risks of using a machine-learning approach the company commonly employs and was subsequently removed from her position in a cloud of controversy. This has caused a massive backlash within Google. Five, the entire Democratic Party has moved to the Left. It’s not common to find outspoken Trump supporters in Silicon Valley’s rank and file. The Valley’s predominantly liberal population — along with the rest of the Democratic Party — has moved to the Left on key issues such as workers’ rights, wealth disparities, immigration, justice, and policing. Six, the public has a better understanding of tech’s dark side. For a long time, the benefits offered by smartphones, slick software, and constant connection were so obvious that any costs seemed negligible in comparison. Across the world, we’ve all seen our actions online lead to intrusive ads that follow us on Google and Facebook; we’ve all seen main-street businesses shut down through their inability to compete with e-commerce platforms’ massive logistical and economic advantages, including the tax and regulatory favours they’ve been able to buy. Seven, the future of labour and inequality is at stake. Few issues animate the Democratic voter base as much today as keeping corporate power in check and obstructing tax avoidance by the rich. With their enormous concentration of wealth, poor treatment of workers, and rampant arrogance, these tensions are moving at a much faster pace than expected.Tomorrow’s rising political stars across the globe are going to make their name standing up to Big Tech. Expect to see politicians run on reigning in companies or advocating for features to be adopted. Ambitious lawyers will push the bounds of anti-trust law, and the CEOs we used to look up to will soon become be blamed for issues they are responsible for, and many they are not. India might still be enamoured with Silicon Valley, but in the US, the honeymoon has come to an end.Vivek Wadhwa is a distinguished fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program and co-author of From Incremental to Exponential: How Large Companies Can See the Future and Rethink Innovation. Tarun Wadhwa is the founder and CEO of Day One Insights and a visiting fellow at Emory University’s Department of Political Science The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/silicon-valley-is-in-for-a-rough-ride/story-QnQfkXGgTQjRHvQmTwu7GP.html
04-01-2021||News||Only a strong social security net can ensure economic growth||The lasting legacy of Covid-19’s impact on India won’t be the large number of fatalities it has caused, it will be how governments across India watched silently as a crashing economy caused a devastating impact on the lives of millions of poor. Going against the call by leading economists to increase spending by targeting direct support to the poor, just as many rich or poor countries around the world had done, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat package restricted direct spending to a fraction of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and targeted it mostly at businesses. Most state governments followed suit. As a result, the poor were left to fend for themselves during the biggest pandemic in a century. In contrast, the economic response of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has focused primarily on the poor and created the closest equivalent of a universal social safety net anywhere in India. In the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, the Delhi government’s first priority was food security for all. After announcing free and double ration for nearly 7.1 million existing beneficiaries of the Public Distribution System (PDS) from April onwards, the government also provided free ration to non-PDS beneficiaries by creating 588 additional distribution points, mostly government schools. An additional 5.8 million people were reached, taking the total to 13 million or nearly 65% of Delhi’s population — the widest such coverage for any state. Knowing that many, especially migrant workers, may still be left out, the Delhi government set-up hunger relief centres at over 1,500 points across the city. At their peak, these centres served two cooked meals to one million people every day — again an unparalleled effort by any Indian state in terms of scale. Additionally, 234 night shelters were set up that provided free stay, food and recreational activities to the thousands rendered homeless during the lockdown. When India started unlocking and special trains started running for migrant workers, the Delhi government paid advance bus/train fares for close to 400,000 workers returning home without any assistance from Centre or their home states.Targeted cash transfers to those hardest hit by the lockdown were deployed at a wider scale by the Delhi government than any other state. Nearly 160,000 drivers and owners of para-transit vehicles such as auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis and gramin sewa whose income stopped abruptly during lockdown received ₹5,000 transfer via direct benefit transfers into their accounts. Close to 50,000 construction workers too received ₹10,000 transfer each into their accounts to help them tide over the devastating impact of the lockdown on their livelihoods.Besides these special measures, however, it is the social safety net synonymous with the Delhi Model created by the Arvind Kejriwal government in the last five years that has stood by the people of Delhi in these troubled times. A household survey conducted by the Delhi government last year estimated that an average Delhi family received ₹2,500 in benefits every month (or ₹30,000 a year) due to four key subsidies under the Delhi Model — free lifeline water and electricity, free treatment and medication in government hospitals and clinics, and free public education. In no other part of India, do citizens expect quality public services for free as they have today come to do in Delhi. That all these subsidies continued during the last year even though the government revenues dropped by a staggering 90% after the lockdown, is a testimony to the commitment of the Kejriwal government to stand by the common man struggling to survive the economic impact of Covid-19. Besides being the only conscionable path of action, this decision was fuelled by a belief that our economy will survive only if our people emerge strong out of this crisis. Covid-19 has taught all governments many lessons. But the most important one will be this: The strength of our social safety net will determine the heights the Indian economy will scale.Jasmine Shah is vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, the policy think-tank of Delhi government. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/only-a-strong-social-security-net-can-ensure-economic-growth/story-shu5l6mUhtvj5KtyRpm7NL.html
04-01-2021||News||No room for complacency in Covid-19 battle||The success of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, now green flagged in India, depends on strong primary health care. Even when the programme gets underway, there can be no let up in ensuring that the health infrastructure is improved steadily.Covid-19 announced itself to the world as 2020 dawned. The virus blitzed across the world rattling health systems and tripping economies. The year ended with vaccines emerging as defenders against disease, though not of infection per se. Just as humanity was sighting success in its pursuit of this agile adversary, the tricky microbe picked up speed with mutations, conferring increased infectivity. India has now to keep up the public health vigilance against viral transmission, while using the vaccines well to protect the vulnerable and prevent interruption of essential services.The advent of the vaccines, while very welcome, should not slacken the resolve to strengthen the public health system to combat future pandemic threats as well as raise its functioning in the steady state. Global and Indian experience with Covid-19 over the past year will guide us to chart the path ahead.During the turbulent year, as millions got sick, clinical medicine stepped in, to show the benefits of old drugs like steroids, lying on the belly (“proning”) and oxygen, even as it applied the rigorous test of large randomised trials to reject false claims. We recognised that the virus spreads through droplets and aerosols to infect us through nose, mouth and eyes. It came as a surprise that it can be transmitted even by asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic persons. Poorly-ventilated spaces and tightly-packed groups of people gave rise to the vast majority of the cases, through super-spreader events.We learnt that this “respiratory virus” also has a propensity to infect and inflame many other organs in the body, cause clots in blood vessels and unleash a fatal cytokine storm. Beyond an acute infection, it revealed long-term effects on many organs, including the heart, lungs, brain, kidney and pancreas. A variety of tests were employed to detect the virus and antibodies against it. High testing rates alone did not hasten the end of the pandemic or reduce deaths in many countries like the United States (US), contrary to what was predicted in the early stages of the pandemic. Besides testing, public health demanded much more to achieve effective control. Tracing of contacts resurfaced as a public health function, aided by apps but still dependant on a skilled health workforce. Public health measures, such as masks and physical distancing, to curb person-to-person transmission became the major defence, through a combination of health communication and regulation.India was pulled into the pandemic in late January 2020. Though case counts were small till March, the panic that engulfed Europe and the US suggested that a highly infectious and moderately virulent virus could wreak havoc in countries with shaky health systems. Mounting concern led to a nationwide lockdown on March 25, lasting several weeks. It did give time to prepare the health and social systems for meeting the daunting challenge that lay ahead. As 2020 ended, India had the pandemic under control. Though the total case count passed the 10 million-mark, placing it second only to the US, it ranks well below other million-plus countries when adjusted for the population size (cases per million). While vagaries of testing rates, methods and criteria left the actual case count in doubt, falling daily death counts provided a better tracker of the decline. Deaths per million population are far lower than in Europe, North or South America. The lower age of the population was protective. A high proportion of the population being rural would have helped, as crowd density and co-morbidity levels are lower. Prior non-specific immunity may have contributed but is unproven. The virus challenge also exposed the weaknesses of our health system. Even as our low-resourced public health and hospital systems gallantly struggled to cope with the challenge of testing, tracing and treating, other essential health services were marginalised. Child immunisation and nutrition, institutional deliveries, treatment of non-communicable diseases and mental health disorders, as well a number of other health needs suffered from depleted services. The pandemic taught us the lesson that a weak health system cannot generate a swift and strong surge response without compromising its other functions. The need to invest more in health now has strong social consensus. We must focus on augmenting the scale and skills of a multi-layered and multi-skilled health workforce. Comprehensive primary health care must be the foundation of an efficient and equitable health system. Urban primary care, which has been long neglected must be prioritised. District and medical college hospitals must be strengthened. Universal Health Coverage, with a higher level of public financing, must be led by a strong public sector with the private and voluntary sectors playing a supportive role. Public health competencies must be enhanced in both central and state health services, through creation of public health cadres. Disease and risk factor surveillance systems must be reinforced. “One Health” surveillance must track microbial migration from wildlife to veterinary clusters and human populations. Though Covid-19 is an unfriendly visitor, it has delivered a message that we must heed. It tells us to position health centrally in the programme of sustainable development. That must be our resolve in 2021. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is president, Public Health Foundation of India. He is the author of Make Health in India: Reaching a Billion Plus The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/no-room-for-complacency-in-covid-19-battle/story-CCInA62CukyDIUJERPp5wK.html
04-01-2021||News||Key constitutional values invoked last year must be built on||One of the most striking images at the beginning of 2020 was that of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), protesters reading aloud the Preamble to the Constitution. It is truly significant then that 2020, with all that happened in between, ended with farmers from across three states expressing their dissent against three agricultural laws passed earlier that year. Let us review how the Constitution fared last year with the hope that key constitutional values, which were invoked and tested in 2020, remain pivotal to the lives of the Indian citizens in 2021 and beyond. Constitutional challenges to CAA ranged from suits filed by several states to petitions alleging infringement on the fundamental right to equality and the secular character of the Constitution. However, the most significant challenge to CAA was mounted outside the courtroom — while the streets were marked by protests against the implementation of the law, social media platforms saw genuine attempts by users to educate themselves on both CAA as well as the Constitution. The first quarter of 2020 witnessed a political and constitutional crisis in Madhya Pradesh. This crisis attracted attention to the Tenth Schedule — the anti-defection law — of the Constitution. The events in Madhya Pradesh were just one of many instances of this law being bypassed. It also lay bare why the Tenth Schedule can often magnify the problem it was intended to solve.What marked the beginning of the second quarter was Covid-19. After an initial response to the pandemic led by states, the Centre stepped in by invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The National Disaster Management Authority, while notifying the lockdown on March 24, emphasised the need for “consistency” in the application of measures across the country. This perceived need for consistency, where the constitutional framework envisages roles for the State as well as local governments to reign in an epidemic, inevitably put a dent in the federal balance. The sudden nature of the first lockdown, and the halt on vital economic activities debilitated state finances, severely shifting the balance in India’s fiscal federal architecture. The other striking image which characterised 2020 was that of migrant workers compelled to walk long distances after the lockdown. It was a failure of policymakers that the drivers of key economic activity were not assured the dignity they deserve. The Constitution and all the institutions were collectively at their lowest when certain states remained unwilling to allow entry of migrant workers, and the Supreme Court (SC) merely approved the steps taken by the Centre to redress their grievances. Parliament, an institution increasingly characterised by political grandstanding, could not redeem itself enough in 2020. Well into the third quarter, on September 20, the three agricultural bills were passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha, despite protest from the Opposition. The passage of these bills gnawed away at a foundational principle of the Constitution — parliamentary form of government characterised by debate, discussion, and accountability. The agricultural laws were passed with scant deliberation, a defect which even the most cogent drafting of their substantive provisions cannot rectify. The last quarter of 2020 witnessed the promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020. Envisaging multiple declarations by individuals before and after conversions, the law is intrusive and its constitutionality dubious. Finally, there were constitutional questions that the SC did not hear (Article 370’s abrogation, CAA’s constitutionality), the pressing questions of access to certain resources in a near-virtual world, and some more. But there were positives. There were assertions of federalism by some states on CAA; the Election Commission smoothly conducted its first post-Covid assembly election; and, most significantly, citizens came into their own and truly realised the import of the Constitution — for themselves and their fellow country people. Let us hope to build on this spirit this year.Ritwika Sharma works at the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy and leads Charkha, Vidhi’s Constitutional Law Centre The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/key-constitutional-values-invoked-last-year-must-be-built-on/story-CmuhKRX1c8aBuO1fbO5vWP.html
