20-01-2021||News||Courage, calibre, character: India’s greatest series win||India’s 2-1 Test series triumph over Australia is straight out of Ripley’s Believe It or Not! It is the greatest series win ever in Indian cricket, and also among the finest comeback stories in the history of sport.The first Test match I saw was India versus Australia at the Brabourne Stadium in 1964. Tiger Pataudi’s team made 254 in the fourth innings to win by two wickets in an edge-of-the-seat finish. This got me hooked to cricket for life.In recent times, India beat England in Chennai in 2008, scoring a whopping 387 in the fourth innings. The biggest run chase, of course, was Bishan Bedi’s team overhauling 403 set by Clive Lloyd’s mighty West Indies in 1975-76. Only Don Bradman’s Invincibles had scored 400-plus runs in the fourth innings before that.These are some memorable run chases, and then there are the come-from-behind series wins that always hold a special place in cricket. Two top of my mind are versus Australia in 2000-2001, inspired by the fantastic VVS Laxman-Rahul Dravid partnership in Kolkata, and against Sri Lanka in 2015.But to understand the magnitude of India’s achievement on the recent tour, consider the trajectory of the series.Blown away for 36 in the second innings of the first Test, the team regroups swiftly to win the next, manages to save the third in a gritty, back-to-the-wall fightback, then turns the tables on the home team with a spectacular run chase in the fourth.The hardship quotient in doing this was extraordinarily high: Historically poor overseas record, playing the world’s no.1 team thirsting for revenge, pressures of living in a bio-secure bubble, playing only two first-class matches this season leading into the Tests, and several key players lost to injury.After the collapse in the first Test for 36 — the seventh lowest score in cricket annals — it was all gloom and doom. Majority opinion, including of former greats such as Allan Border and Ricky Ponting, suggested a clean sweep for Australia. Kinder voices said inclement weather might help India perhaps save one Test.But nobody gave India a hope in hell of saving the series, leave aside winning it. And understandably so, for how does any team recover from such a debacle? More so, with skipper and batting mainstay Virat Kohli not available, (paternity leave), and Mohammed Shami returning with a fractured hand?The situation got worse as the tour progressed. In the third, Jadeja suffered a fracture and Vihari a hamstring pull. By the time the fourth Test began, Bumrah and Ashwin — both enjoying huge success — were also injured. In the last Test, six of the playing XI — Pant, Siraj, Saini, Natrajan, Washington, Gill — were not in the team that played in the first!The starting point of India’s incredible revival in this tense, and at times acrimonious, see-saw contest is pivotal to any analysis and is located in the immediate aftermath of the second-innings collapse at Adelaide. The rest of the tour could have gone the way England, circa 1974, went. What prevented this I believe was sagacious intervention by the team management.In 1974, India was bowled out for 42 in the second Test at Lord’s. The team went on to lose the third too, giving England a 3-0 whitewash. Such a debacle can scar players for life. Some from that group never recovered; captain Ajit Wadekar lost his captaincy; and the ignominy of the performance got implanted on the psyche of every Indian fan forever.Weak body language and blame-games could have precipitated a bigger crisis after Adelaide. Players, especially those not doing well, and youngsters, are more vulnerable in such situations. Captain Ajinkya Rahane and coach Ravi Shastri handled the delicate situation astutely. The collapse was signed off as a freak event, but one from which lessons had to be learnt.The effort going ahead was to ensure that such lapses in concentration would not happen again — put personal and team pride in the forefront, and most importantly, not back off. Combativeness, aggression and confrontation have been built up over the past few years as part of team culture. Derided as ugly showmanship when the results have not been favourable, they paid wonderful dividends this time.In fact, in the final Test, the injury-hit team had two debutants, and three players in their first Test series, but not one of them played like a rookie. Some of these players — such as Mohammed Siraj, T Natarajan, Navdeep Saini — also make for fascinating stories of how cricket has transformed lives, especially in hinterland and mofussil areas.Their success highlights the depth and strength of talent in the country. It’s also easily overlooked that India’s domestic structure is robust, arguably the best in the world. The India A and under-25 tours have been invaluable for young talent. After Adelaide, India’s response was stupendous, and based on three Cs so vital in sport but often glossed over — courage, calibre and character. Taking responsibility and teamwork are usually puerile clichés in sport. In this series, their role was exemplary.The experienced pros and newcomers combined to prove a point to themselves, the opponents and the world. And created history.Ayaz Memon is a veteran sports journalist and writerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/courage-calibre-character-india-s-greatest-series-win-101611153442998.html
20-01-2021||News||Managing drug security effectively in times of a pandemic||One of the most critical pillars of Covid-19 management has been ensuring the availability and accessibility of essential medicines at affordable prices. The challenge of establishing a nationwide logistics management and supplies system during complete and partial lockdowns was Herculean, but was successfully overcome. The Centre’s strategy to ensure sufficient access, monitor stocks and distribution, issue approvals, maintain seamless supply chain of drugs, effectively communicate with stakeholders, and evolve a dynamic Clinical Management Protocol (CMP) has contributed significantly to India’s Covid-19 management success.The Centre ensured the supply of drugs with equitable and integrated access. It ensured a robust regulatory mechanism and expedited approvals and stocks. The supply chain was efficiently managed, with close monitoring of the distribution of medicines to states, Union Territories and central institutions. In the early days, there were no Covid-19 treatment guidelines. Experts drafted clinical management guidelines, which were updated when new scientific information was available. Efforts were made to reduce the severity, duration and impact of Covid-19 by identifying and approving early interventions.The first guidelines, issued on March 22, by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxes for asymptomatic health workers and the household contacts of confirmed cases. Subsequently, other frontline workers were also included. The first comprehensive CMP issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) on March 31 recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin for the treatment of patients with moderate and severe disease. The Centre placed orders for procurement on the same day. The drug supplies commenced within a week of placing the orders and were supplied within six weeks. The drugs were first delivered to the central depot in Delhi and then sent to various states by the respective resident commissioners. Subsequent revisions in the CMP led to the inclusion of other drugs like dexamethasone, methylprednisolone and low-molecular-weight-heparin while doing away with azithromycin. Some new and re-purposed drugs and therapies such as convalescent plasma, remdesivir and tocilizumab were introduced as investigational therapies. The CMP evolved over time, with modifications based on scientific evidence for optimal management. This reflects in the national recovery rate of close to 97%, one of the highest in the world. This evolution of CMP has been one of the main weapons in the fight against the pandemic. DGHS additionally identified 54 ICU and 98 other essential drugs to manage complications and co-morbidities. The central and state governments, the pharma industry and the distribution network all strived to ensure total availability, both in the public health and in retail sectors.A monitoring system with real-time data was used to monitor drug production and supply in the domestic market, availability and distribution. Regular reviews, quick decisions and follow-up by the group of ministers, the Cabinet secretary and the empowered groups ensured that all procurements, supplies, logistics and distribution were on track and issues were resolved expeditiously. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has been conducting random weekly surveys at chemists and medicine outlets to confirm the availability of drugs for Covid-19 treatment. To facilitate the launch of new and repurposed drugs for treatment, DCGI has been processing Covid-19 related applications for new drugs, vaccines, biologicals and clinical trials on a fast-track mode, having disposed of 330 of the 352 applications to date. This proactive and coordinated strategy has helped India ensure drug security for all of its 1.35 billion citizens through the pandemic. India has gone much beyond fulfilling the domestic demands but, as the “pharmacy of the world”, has also catered to the global demand for drugs, earning the goodwill and admiration of the international community. Sudhansh Pant is an IAS officer and was, till recently, Officer on Special Duty in the ministry of health and family welfareThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/managing-drug-security-effectively-in-times-of-a-pandemic-101611153378529.html
20-01-2021||News||Is ‘Global Britain’ inimical to India?||As the United Kingdom (UK) charts its global path in the post-Brexit era, signals about India emanating from there have been overshadowed by news about the havoc that the new strain of Covid-19 is causing. Yet, the signs are unmistakable. One day, a group of members of the UK Parliament lobbies the government on the farmers’ agitation in India; the next day, a discussion is held in the House of Commons on the situation of minorities in India; then there is a debate among parliamentarians on the “political situation in Kashmir”.In India, not many have connected the dots, dismissing them as trivial pursuits of distant politicians, primarily from the Opposition Labour Party, pandering to their constituents. Can there be more to this?Enter Chatham House. The century-old institution is formally known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs. An independent policy institute, it draws the name from its location — an 18th-century building, which was occupied in the past by several British prime ministers. One of its three current Presidents is a former Prime Minister — John Major. Chatham House reports are a vital resource for leaders and influence policymakers in the UK government, the private sector and civil society. A recent offering, Global Britain, Global Broker, authored by long-time director and chief executive, Robin Niblett, offers a plethora of recommendations about the UK’s future global role.Primarily, the report advises that the UK, instead of trying to reincarnate as a “miniature great power”, should style itself as a “broker of solutions to global challenges”. It lists six such global issues to focus on — “protecting liberal democracy; promoting international peace and security; tackling climate change; enabling greater global health resilience; championing global tax transparency and equitable economic growth; and defending cyberspace”. It suggests more investments in diplomacy, leveraging of soft power, financial strength and membership of the world’s multilateral organisations to make this transition by 2030. However, from an Indian perspective, of considerably more interest is what the report suggests the UK should do and not do as it strives towards change. India, which describes ties with the UK as a “strategic partnership”, is portrayed as a “rival” or “at best, an awkward counterpart” on par with Russia, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. While the UK’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson has invited India to the G7 Summit in June, the report weighs in against Johnson’s idea of enlarging the G7 into a “Democratic 10” or D10 comprising the G7 nations plus Australia, India and South Korea. Even as recently declassified documents reveal US keenness to support India’s rise, the Chatham House report argues that “including India in a D10 at this time could make building any meaningful consensus on policy or joint actions that much harder.” Going further, the report projects that the D10 can end up “functioning as a D9, at some point in the future,” alluding that India may suffer the same fate as Russia when G8 reverted to being G7.The report lists “two recent UK humiliations at the UN – its failure to win a seat on the International Court of Justice in the election of judges in 2017, and defeat in a vote over the fate of the Chagos Islands in May 2019 ” as warnings of a future where Britain could find itself squeezed to the margins of international negotiations or picked on by groups of states as a way of sending messages to others. Left unsaid is that India played a role in both cases.Rarely has a report from an “establishment” institution in the UK portrayed India in such inimical terms, viewing it primarily as a market. Of the six global goals that the report lists, the UK and India are projected as partners only in peace and security. That too is a surprise, given that the report places India among countries that “readily participate in or attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, a grouping of states led by Beijing and Moscow designed to resist the penetration of Western interests” and lists factors that limit India’s capacity “to undertake a proactive foreign policy on the global issues that matter most to the UK”. The report also charts India’s approach to issues such as the climate crisis, global health and cybersecurity as not in congruence with “Global Britain’s” interests.Will what the Chatham House report portends be reflected in policy? Or is it a case of civil society and the UK government not being in tune with each other? What about the blind eye the British establishment turns to the activities of the Khalistanis and the interminable delay in the extradition of Vijay Mallya? Johnson’s inability to participate as the chief guest at our Republic Day also means we will be denied clarity on what accounts for the discordant signalling about India from so many sections of British society. However, we need not wait for long.Now that we are forewarned, we can look towards both the G7 Summit and the key climate meeting of Conference of the Parties 26 that the UK hosts in 2021. Besides, Johnson intends to visit India before that. These engagements will provide ample opportunities for India to assess how honest a broker “Global Britain” will be.Syed Akbaruddin is a retired diplomat who served as India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New YorkThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/is-global-britain-inimical-to-india-101611150625192.html
20-01-2021||News||Imran Khan gets squeezed between shrinking economy and proactive opposition||Prime Minister Imran Khan, who has been facing sharp attacks from a combined opposition alliance for months, is facing trouble convincing China for concessional funding of the grand project to upgrade a little less than one-fifth of Pakistan’s railway tracks at a cost of $6.8 billion. The Main Line 1 project, the costliest projects of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, had been reckoned by its proponents to boost Pakistan’s economy and reduce unemployment.But there are serious disagreements between China and Pakistan on its funding that have led the two countries to repeatedly put off the annual meeting of CPEC’s Joint Cooperation Committee, its key decision-making body. The committee is jointly chaired by Pakistan's minister for planning, development and special initiatives and the vice-chairman of China's National Development and Reform Commission.According to a Nikkei Asia report, Pakistan wants to borrow at a concessional interest rate of less than 3% - some reports in Pakistani media say 1 % - but China has offered a mix of concessionary and commercial loans for the project. Pakistan’s Express Tribune in November said China also wanted additional guarantees before sanctioning the $6-billion loan due to the country's weakening financial position.Pakistan watchers in New Delhi said the two countries would eventually resolve their differences over the funding closer to China’s position. But they said the episode spotlights the growing pressures on PM Imran Khan on the economy front that would continue to weaken his grip on the country.A security assessment by the UN’s department of safety counts the economic slowdown as PM Khan’s biggest domestic challenge.“As economic hardships deepen, the PDM movement is likely to gain broad public support. If the economic situation is not properly controlled, Pakistan will face political instability with growing risks of government collapse,” the UN department’s report said, referring to the campaign against PM Khan launched by Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of opposition parties formed in September 2020.The state of the economy and an increase in unemployment have been key points in the narrative put out by the joint opposition that has announced the third round of protests across Pakistan.The seizure of a Pakistan Airlines aircraft owing to a dispute over non-payment of aircraft lease dues feeds into this narrative over the economy.“Today Malaysia has stopped our aircraft in lieu of loan repayment. Tomorrow if any airport detains the Prime Minister over non-payment of loans…what will happen?” Maulana Abdul Ghafoor Haideri of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party said in a recent video clip.That the authorities in Malaysia decided to seize the aircraft is a significant development and signals the state of play in bilateral relations between Islamabad and Kuala Lumpur, which was considered to be part of the Pakistan-Turkey-Malaysia axis before ex-PM Mahathir Mohamad’s exit.Pakistan’s relations with countries in the Middle East have also deteriorated as Imran Khan lay his bets on Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, rather than Pakistan’s traditional mentor, Saudi Arabia. PM Khan upset Riyadh by his attempt to form an alternative Muslim coalition with Turkey and Malaysia to an extent that the Saudis, in an unprecedented move, demanded that Pakistan cancelled its arrangement for deferred payments for oil purchases and asked Pakistan last year to repay the loan. Local media reports in Pakistan indicate that there is a possibility that the UAE too could seek the early repayment of a $3 billion financial support package announced in December 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/paks-imran-khan-gets-squeezed-by-shrinking-economy-and-proactive-opposition-101611143607130.html
