22-01-2021||News||The secrets of Netaji’s secret service||While the Red Fort Trials of Shah Nawaz Khan, GS Dhillon and Prem Sahgal are widely known, the massive sacrifice of hundreds of Secret Service officers of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army (INA) remains a secret and an enigma.These men were trained under Netaji’s watch at the Tanjong Bungah Centre in Penang. They landed in groups from Japanese submarines or were air-dropped by parachutes into India or Ceylon. Many of them were betrayed, tortured and sentenced to death. But today, they remain in oblivion and forgotten. In fact, little is known on the large organisation of the Secret Service of the INA, centralised and vastly expanded by Netaji, after being set up by General Mohan Singh and then Rash Behari Bose.One British military trial of the INA Secret Service that is known to some is the “Calcutta Conspiracy Case” of four patriots of the INA Secret Service. This secret trial for “waging war against the King Emperor” ended with the death sentence to the four by hanging. This came to the attention of some because Mahatma Gandhi intervened and their death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment. Writing to Lord Wavell, on September 14, 1945, Gandhi wrote, “It will be a political error of the first magnitude if this sentence of death is carried into effect.”On the 125th Anniversary of Netaji’s birth, I appeal to the nation to document and recognise the sacrifices of hundreds of men of INA’s Secret Service who landed across the country from East Asia and were martyred at the altar of the freedom struggle. Their sacrifice and those of their brave Indian counterparts must now be revered and etched into our memory of the fight for freedom.In March 1944, a fully armed Japanese submarine left the secure base in Penang, carrying four INA Secret Service officers, destined for the Puri beach of the Bay of Bengal. In the submarine were Pabitra Mohan Roy (leader), Sardar Mohinder Singh (bomb expert), Tuhin Mukherjee (coding expert) and Americk Singh Gill (radio expert). Just before departure came Netaji’s message to them directly: “Though few in number, your mission will strike a deadly blow at the entire British secret service. This base in Calcutta must be set up at all cost,” as chronicled by Gill. The submarine reached its destination and put the four on their mechanised dinghy. “Just before day break we could see the huge Konarak Sun Temple…” wrote Gill. Within minutes, Singh buried the bombs and power packs, 25 paces from the south-end wall of the temple. (Are they still there?). They dispersed hurriedly with vital radio parts camouflaged by Roy in a travelling gramophone of yore. They would rendezvous at the Metro Cinema in Calcutta on a Sunday at 10 am.Then came the deadly mistake. Against orders, Mukherjee went to meet his in-laws. His father in-law quickly handed him over to the Calcutta police and collected the considerable bounty on his head of ₹5,000 in 1944. Under torture, the vital radio code for transmissions to Netaji’s headquarters in Rangoon was revealed.Soon after, Roy and Gill came into contact with Haridas Mitra and his wife Bela Bose, the daughter of Netaji’s elder brother Suresh Chandra Bose. Together they met Jyotish Bose, a close friend of Haridas Mitra and the rest of the trusted members of the underground. Luckily, the first trial of radio contact with a new code went through from the home of a dental surgeon, Dr Dutt. Now, they needed a permanent hide-out to set up the powerful transmitters.The radio expert, Americk Gill, wrote, “Haridas Mitra lost no time and soon we were settled at Behala. We were furnished with the best radio receivers, organized and supported by Haridas Mitra, Jyotish Bose, Bela Bose and a valiant group of well concealed and trusted underground workers.” Newly coded messages to the INA headquarters revealed among other information, vital British troop movements to Kohima, the assembling of heavy bombers at Dum Dum airport and as, Gill wrote, “...we made use of our powerful transmitters to jam naval and army signals and causing interference on their known frequencies.” (sic). These hundreds of coded messages were hugely helpful to the INA commanders on the battlefield.Singh set up a strong base in Jalandhar. But alas, he was betrayed while in Phagwara for bounty and tortured to death in Lahore. This ultimate sacrifice of Mohinder Singh remains unrecognised till date.The British intelligence was closing in and very soon Roy was arrested; so was Gill. And then Haridas Mitra and Jyotish Bose were arrested too. The summary military trial began in May 1945 and ended in a month. “King’s Witnesses” included 12 traitors who were trained in the INA Centre in Penang and had landed in Baluchistan and of course, there was Tuhin Mukherjee. The British judge Ormerod condemned to death by hanging Pabitra Mohan Roy, Americk Singh Gill, Haridas Mitra and Jyotish Bose.It is believed that 10 such groups of INA Secret Service men, who had landed earlier in different parts of the country, had been condemned to death too and had been hanged. What a tragedy that this history is not known to our nation. British records must have been kept and lie buried in India or London. It is time that we draw them out to at least consecrate the ultimate sacrifices of these martyrs.Amit Mitra is the finance minister of West Bengal. He is also the founder patron, with Anita Bose, of the INA Trust and the son of Haridas Mitra and Bela Bose, niece of Netaji. This piece is based on the memoirs of Roy, Gill, J Bose and Sumitra Mitra’s book with interviews with H MitraThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-secrets-of-netaji-s-secret-service-101611321585704.html
22-01-2021||News||Imran Khan jumped the gun. This time, over Pakistan’s economic turnaround||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government often pins the blame for the economic turmoil in Pakistan on his predecessors and coronavirus, in that order, and credits PM Khan for minimising the adverse impact of both. PM Khan and his government’s economists have lately been telling Pakistanis and the world about his government’s success in navigating the economy.In November, Imran Khan told a meeting with political leaders and civil society that the difficult phase in the economic revival is over and the economy has recovered. The next month, PM Khan declared that Pakistan’s economy had made a “remarkable turnaround”.To be sure, the pandemic did play a key role in ramming Pakistan's economy that contracted for the first time in seven decades. But the downward trend had been evident as early as mid-2018. Pakistan's GDP grew by 1.9% in 2019, down from a decade-high of 5.8% the previous year when Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf came to power.Pakistan watchers in New Delhi suggest PM Khan’s proclamation on the economy may have jumped the gun.Not everyone in Pakistan outside the government is as convinced either. Like this opinion piece in the Dawn. “Whenever you hear the government proclaim triumph about rising exports, keep in mind that the trade deficit has grown even faster than exports in the same July to December period,” commentator Khurram Husain cautioned on the government’s spin to the data on PM Khan’s claims of economic recovery.Also Read: Imran Khan squeezed between a shrinking economy and expanding oppositionBesides, Pakistan is also struggling to contain inflation that shot up to 10.7% in 2020, up from 6.8% in 2019 and 4.7% in 2018 when the Imran Khan government came to power. A recent spike in food prices indicates that the rising trend is likely to continue.Pakistan, in a desperate effort to contain food prices, ended up aggressively importing essentials like wheat, sugar and canola to such an extent that, according to a Bloomberg report earlier this month, the Karachi Port was jammed.“The result: Pakistan’s cement exports declined 18% to 633,431 tons last month, steeper than the 5% drop seen in November, amid non-availability of berths to load the goods,” the Bloomberg report said.The economy is also under strain due to rising debt stocks. By the end of September 2020, Pakistan's total debt and liabilities stood at Pakistani Rupee 44,801 billion ($280 billion), an increase of PKR 245 billion over a three-month period.Moreover, around 30% of Pakistan's total debt is sourced through external borrowings and reflects an increase of $ 1.05 billion during the July-September quarter of the current fiscal. Pakistan would need to pay around PKR 1,200 billion towards servicing the debt and liabilities in the current fiscal.Currently, Pakistan spends around one-third of the total budget on debt servicing. PM Khan admitted the impact of the debt burden recently even if it was to blame his predecessors. “Half of the taxes we [the government] collect go into debt settlement of loans taken by previous governments,” he told reporters this month.Quite a bit of PM Imran Khan’s attempt to build the narrative around Pakistan’s economic turnaround has focused on the current account that had been in surplus for around five months till December, a rarity in a country dependent on imports and stagnant exports. PM Khan had, for weeks, lauded the current account surplus as “great news” and spoke about the ‘achievement’ with some pride last week too.Also Read: At UN Covid meet, cash-strapped Pak PM Imran Khan seeks debt reliefEconomists have, however, pointed that the current account surplus was possibly one positive consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic that had slowed down economic activity and led to a decline in the demand for fuel in an era of low global oil prices. It also helped that travel restrictions around the world had impeded the flow of remittances via the informal channels and forced workers abroad to use the formal remittance channels.But it is time for Pakistan to tighten its belt as it looks to revive the International Monetary Fund’s $6 billion Extended Fund Facility (EFF). It was stalled in February 2020 after the Covid-19 outbreak that gave PM Khan the space to put off hard decisions.The first one came on Thursday when the government announced plans to increase the power tariff by Rs1.95 a unit. Local media reports have indicated that the government could soon also withdraw PKR 150 billion worth of tax exemption to the corporate sector.PM Khan did not refer to the corporate income tax rates and exemptions at the launch of a digital payments system 'Raast' earlier this month. But he did hint at the need to expand the tax base. Out of 220 million people in Pakistan, income tax paid by 3,000 people accounted for 70% of the collections, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/imran-khan-celebrated-pak-economy-s-recovery-why-it-is-too-soon-101611304913952.html
22-01-2021||News||The democratic dilemma posed by social media||I remember the day I was introduced to The Facebook. A Harvard undergraduate whom I had met in a class invited me via email to join this mysterious club. I created my (rudimentary) account, found it populated with only Harvard students, and unable to figure out its purpose beyond invitations to parties and events on campus, shrugged and didn’t browse it again for another couple of years or so.I was, of course, hopelessly behind the times. The Facebook became Facebook, and the whole world and their mother (and mine) joined. Facebook was first a way for people to connect with friends and family, then with people who were in their orbit perhaps, but not in their social circles, and finally, with strangers. This universality and sheer liberal reach of Facebook, and later, other social media outlets such as Twitter, seemed to be the ultimate harbinger of democracy and transparency.Fast forward then to Wednesday’s American presidential inauguration. President Joe Biden struck a sombre note. “Democracy,” he said, had “prevailed” but it is “fragile.” Biden was referring to the storming of the United States (US) Capitol on January 6, when a group of protesters, egged on by Donald Trump to believe that the election had been fraudulent, attacked the very seat of American democracy. Trump was rightly blamed for his instigating role in the riots but there was another culprit as well — social media. The reputation of Facebook and Twitter lay in tatters. What followed in the aftermath of the insurrection — the suspensions and banning of accounts — did nothing to restore their democratic reputation.To understand how we got here we need to look to the evolution of social media as a tool by which not just ordinary people but countries began to do business. Twitter and Facebook would connect ordinary citizens yes, but also people to their political leaders, and political leaders to their counterparts.One of the earliest inklings of the power of social media to change the way international politics is structured came during the Arab Spring. The suicide of a vegetable vendor to protest against the Tunisian government went viral across Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube, inspiring protests across West Asia and North Africa. Governments fell, and civil wars broke out. Social media played a critical role, spreading democratic ideas across multiple nations, and connecting citizens. It was lauded as “liberation technology” for ushering in an age of transparency and information sharing for the good. Political leaders were swift to capitalise on it.When Barack Obama taped a message for Nowruz, the Persian New Year, for example, it went viral in Iran. It was shared on over 60,000 blogs, and watched by more than one third of the citizens of Iran. During his second term, when two US Navy patrol boats strayed into Iranian waters in the Persian Gulf, and the Iranian government detained the American sailors on board, diplomacy between Iran and the US played out on not just through the usual diplomatic back channels but also on Twitter. Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif, and US Secretary of State, John Kerry announced the outcome on Twitter, resolving the #sailors episode.They were, of course, far from the only ones using social media to address contentious bilateral relations. In 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the step of opening a social media account on Sina Weibo, China’s answer to Twitter, with a highly symbolic and viral post: “hello China! Looking forward to interacting with Chinese friends.”But the opposite also happened. Social media also became a way to trade international barbs. Trump’s pugnacious tweets — often misspelt, and in all caps — called out friends and foes, individuals and countries. More disturbingly, the direct communication of leaders and the presence of millions of followers gave, as recent research has shown, democratic voice not only to those who were excluded from political spaces but also to those who would use it, paradoxically, for illiberal goals. In Trump’s case it meant bringing together a far-Right network of people from across the world who congregated in the dubious corners and chat rooms of social media to trade conspiracy theories.Thus, “defending democracy” as Biden just vowed to do, is not so simple. On one hand, social media, by its inherent ability to democratise politics, created an insurrection that could have decapitated one of the branches of American government. On the other, the clampdown on social media that followed to control the violence, even though successful, was also deeply troubling. The banning of Trump and others from Twitter and Facebook, and the shutdown of Parler made clear that the power to silence voices, whether of the one or of millions, lies with just three men on the planet – Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Jack Dorsey of Twitter, and Jeff Bezos of Amazon. No wonder defending democracy will be a huge and unenviable task for President Biden’s team.Manjari Chatterjee Miller is associate professor of international relations, Frederick S Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University, and a research associate at the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies, University of Oxford The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-democratic-dilemma-posed-by-social-media-101611238896051.html
22-01-2021||News||Putting the consumer at the centre of Digital India||The telecom revolution in India is an unparalleled success story. From a tele-density of 2% in 1995 to 12% in 2005 to over 90% in 2020, things have come a long way. India today has over 500 million active internet users, who consume the highest volume of data in the world (average of 25GB per month) and pay the lowest rates in the world (average price of $0.30 per GB vs $8 in the US). This massive rise in the use of the mobile internet helped lay the foundation for many businesses, besides delivering governance efficiently.With accelerating consumption, India has become a lucrative market for B2C tech companies, which thrive on a growing reliance on their platforms. But this also means that India urgently needs an evolved regulatory framework which empowers the consumer to utilise this digital transformation without being vulnerable to data security threats.So far, India’s approach to consumer empowerment is inconsistent at best and depends on whether the sector has a regulator overseeing it. For sectors that have regulators — TRAI for telecom; SEBI for stock markets; RBI for banking — the government has managed to ensure greater transparency in protecting the interests of the consumer. Those that do not have regulators generally fall within the ambit of the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) where the scope of the issue gets constrained to monetary transactions. As a result, there is no mechanism to redress issues such as losing privacy, as opposed to losing money.India’s consumer internet is dominated by American Big Tech. This has implications for freedom of expression because its content rules and broader policy determinations will determine our online public squares. Repeated offences on data breaches and sharing of data between platforms have been ignored — in the absence of a regulator.India has conventionally resorted to broad trade and market restrictions — such as blocking — rather than nuanced regulation of the digital space. In a digitally integrated world, globalisation of ideas and information has helped economies find novel ways to power growth and inclusion. Denying digital access to certain services be it through app bans or internet shutdowns, is an act of digital de-globalisation.The Supreme Court, in 2019, acknowledged that internet access is integral to the right to freedom of speech and expression while adding that any restriction on internet access must pass the test of proportionality, and suggested the evolution of a rules-based mechanism to govern the internet. In 2020 alone, India lost $2.8 billion due to internet shutdowns, about three-quarters of the $4 billion lost worldwide due to internet curbs. Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, which gives the government the provision to block public access to specific webpages, websites and mobile applications, has been used extensively, and often without accountability. As the government evolves its policies to empower a digital India, a comprehensive national security law needs to be brought in, which thrives on compliance rather than bans as a regulation mechanism. The Personal Data Protection Bill has a good approach on the consumer side whereby the emphasis is on providing more control and transparency to consumers, enabling them to become “owners” of their information. There, however, remains concerns, including the extent of autonomy of the Proposed Data Protection Authority which is supposed to be the regulator under the Bill.One way to empower consumers is by creating mechanisms to ensure inter-operability, by making it easier to switch services from one platform to another. In telecom, interoperability is implemented. However, in the internet space, and more prominently in the app space, consumers do not have this choice. People wanting to exit Facebook or WhatsApp cannot do so without relinquishing data, history, contacts. The journey towards a Digital India is rewarding and a great propeller for growth. A strong and consistent governance framework together with a digitally empowered Indian consumer will be a great step in building an Atmanirbhar Bharat.Lloyd Mathias is an early-stage investor and a business strategistThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/putting-the-consumer-at-the-centre-of-digital-india-101611235350806.html
22-01-2021||News||The working of a ‘project finance economy’||Every country seeks growth in its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to meet the needs of its citizens. A growth in GDP is a function of the amount of labour utilised in a country, the amount of capital deployed, and the increase in the country’s productivity. Any nation that seeks to accelerate its GDP growth must employ more people, use more capital or increase its productivity.In a set of brilliant Reith lectures last year, Mark Carney discusses how the economic theoretician tries to paint the discipline of economics, as a neutral technical discipline, with immutable laws that provide good and bad answers. But are their answers good for developing countries in general, and India, in particular? In a developed economy, the level of per capita income of the population is high, the levels of unemployment are typically low, the tax base is broad, and governments can meet their expenditure from tax revenues. The need to borrow arises primarily to smoothen the timing of revenue and expenditure flows. These countries have reasonably robust soft and hard infrastructure.It is not that everything is perfect in terms of access or even in the quality of infrastructure, but life chances for people are much better than in other parts of the world. It is true that sometimes these countries start to trail in some areas of innovation by falling behind in research and development (R&D) investment, but essentially, they have high per capita incomes and governments have the resources to meet their current expenditures. In normal periods, these economies can be said to be in a steady state and like low inflation with balanced budgets. If they run fiscal deficits, it is on account of unanticipated shocks or by political choice. I would like to call these economies “working capital economies”.In contrast, developing economies are those that have low per capita income and high unemployment or disguised unemployment (very low productivity jobs). They are not in a steady state. They often lag in their soft infrastructure — reasonable schooling, decent healthcare, and levels of malnutrition in children. They have gaps in their hard infrastructure in respect to the availability of drinking water, power, public transport, roads, rail, airports and ports. Typically, they have lower spending on R&D and technology.Therefore, these economies operate at low productivity levels. Often, these economies have access to cheap labour, but it is mostly unskilled, they typically exhibit a shortage of capital and struggle to grow sustainably. Revenue is not enough for the desperately needed capital expenditures. They need to borrow and invest in infrastructure to break out of their low productivity trap to be able to raise their per capita incomes and get close to full employment. I term these economies “project finance economies”.Project finance economies have different imperatives from working capital economies. They need investment to fill the gaps in their infrastructure and lack the resources to do so. They need to run fiscal deficits, tolerate higher inflation, and keep interest rates lower relative to their level of inflation so that they may raise the resources to build the needed infrastructure. Only by improving their soft and hard infrastructure can they raise economic productivity, which creates the ability for them to put their economies on a sustainable growth path and allow them to service their loans.Inflation around 7% creates some money illusion and increases consumer expenditure and makes employees feel an improvement in their situation. Lower interest rates spur capital investment and if the money is well spent, raise the productivity of the economy and increase per capita incomes. The important requirement is that the borrowing is used to fund capital and not current expenditure.The passage of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM) in 2003 in India was to restrict the ability of governments to run fiscal deficits. This was done with a view to constrain them from being irresponsible and taking on more debt than it could service. The question is should the Act have constrained the ability of the government to borrow or should it have ensured that if the government borrowed, it was for capital expenditures that would raise our productivity.Further, in 2016, India decided to establish an inflation target that is to be monitored through a monetary policy committee. The inflation target has been set at 4% with a 2% band on either side. The question is should a project finance economy set a low 4% target, when for most of India’s independent history it had an average inflation of 7% with a few spikes without major problems? South Korea did the same during the 20-year period of its rapid GDP growth between 1980-95. To kill inflation, the Reserve Bank of India kept interest rates higher than in most parts of the world between 2014-2018, making us the haven of the carry trade by over-estimating inflation consistently. This discouraged capital investments and led to a slowdown in exports because of an overvalued currency.We need a reset away from simple neo-classical dogma to create the right policies for sustainable employment generating growth in India by improving our productivity. As Confucius said, “When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don’t adjust the goals, adjust the action steps.”Janmejaya Sinha is chairman, BCG IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-working-of-a-project-finance-economy-101611235298207.html
