25-01-2021||News||The policy landscape around digital and physical micro-lending||Micro-lending is in the news again for the wrong reasons. First, the Assam government passed a bill which barred micro-finance institutions (MFIs) from lending to vulnerable sections of society. It was a response to a backlash against MFIs. A large number of borrowers working in tea plantations had taken loans from MFIs. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) noted that the economic slowdown in tea plantations and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act disruptions led to rise in the delinquencies. MFIs started sending collectors for recoveries to the borrowers, leading first to the backlash and then the political response in terms of the bill.Second, RBI expressed caution against digital lending platforms which promise quick loans, and constituted a working group to study both regulated and unregulated digital lending “so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place”. Digital lending platforms have mushroomed and there are criticisms of high interest rates, hidden charges, unacceptable recovery methods and misuse of data of borrowers. Whether it is physical lending or digital micro-lending, the outcomes seem to be similar across the two cases.In 1870s, a similar backlash emerged in Poona and Ahmednagar districts of the Bombay presidency. The agriculture boom in the early 1860s led farmers to take loans from moneylenders. As the boom went bust, farmers were unable to pay these loans. The moneylenders took away land placed as collateral, fuelling protests and riots.How did the government respond? By passing new laws. In 1879, the Deccan Agricultural Relief Act barred the arrest of the agriculturist-debtor and saved his immovable property from attachment and sale, unless specifically pledged. The Land Improvements Loans Act 1883 and Agricultural Loans Act of 1884 specified legislation relating to loans from the government for agricultural improvements.However, none of these legislations created the desired impact. The discussions moved to establishing new financial institutions to serve the needs of farmers. In 1892, the Madras government established a committee under Sir Frederick Nicholson to study the theory and practice of agricultural and land banks in Europe. The Madras presidency was the ideal setting for this experiment as it was already home to Nidhis (local financial institutions), which financed the needs of farmers. Nicholson summarised his findings in two words: “Find Raiffeisen”. German Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen was seen as the pioneer of the cooperative movement and Nicholson asked to find another Raiffeisen to start the cooperative movement in India. In 1900, ICS H Dupernex also wrote a book titled People’s Bank for Northern India which had similar ideas of cooperation.These ideas gave birth to the Indian Cooperative Movement. In 1904, the government passed the Co-operative Credit Societies Act. It classified societies as rural and urban. Rural society members were bound by unlimited liability whereas urban ones were given a free choice. The cooperatives could raise funds and carry on their business in a corporate capacity. Loans could be given only to members on personal or real security. Since 1904, the cooperative credit movement has gone through many cycles and is currently grappling with a crisis with closures and suspensions of several cooperative banks.In 2010, the Andhra Pradesh government also passed similar legislation like the one in Assam against MFIs leading to a crisis in the industry. Though the scale of lending is lesser in Assam and is unlikely to drive MFIs to a crisis, finance is not about scale alone but interconnectedness of the players. Fintechs will soon be criticised for being Shylocks and loan sharks.Pre-2008 crisis, financiers were the cynosure of all eyes and post-crisis they were branded as devils of the game. Across countries, several legislations were passed to curtail the activities of the financial sector. But is it all the fault of lenders? Shouldn’t borrowers also suffer the consequences of over-borrowing? How do we address this cyclical pattern of hailing and rubbishing financiers? It is time for an honest review of the entire issue.Amol Agrawal is a faculty member at Ahmedabad University. He writes the Mostly Economics blogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-policy-landscape-around-digital-and-physical-microlending-101611493630996.html
25-01-2021||News||Vaccinating all Indians, for free||India has started vaccinating citizens against Covid-19. As more people get vaccinated, we can slowly start to shed our fears and masks and return to a more normal life. But there are still hurdles to cross before we can move to a true post-Covid era.The most significant hurdle is the cost of vaccinating more than a billion Indians. Other challenges include the logistics of vaccinating such a large population and navigating the economy carefully in the interim period before we reach the vaccination finish line. But the most conspicuous questions as India embarks on the vaccination drive are — will the vaccination be free and who will pay for it?Other than the health benefits, it is obvious that the economy will benefit enormously if most Indians are vaccinated. Economic activity will slowly be restored to pre-Covid normalcy. Sure, some sectors of the economy will recover faster while others such as travel and entertainment may be laggards. Perhaps, it is prudent that the sections of the economy that will stand to gain immediately may be tapped to help fund India’s vaccination drive — a “win-win” as they say in the corporate sector.India’s stock market and the financial economy are certain to benefit almost immediately from the vaccination drive. Stock markets react to future expectations of economic and corporate sector performance. As the vaccination progresses, industries may take time to return to full capacity and companies may take several months or years to get to their pre-Covid levels of revenues and profits. But the stock market reacts sooner to factor in the inevitable return to economic normalcy.When the nation was under a total shutdown, India’s stock markets were brimming with activity. In the ten months between April and December last year, when 130 million jobless Indians were toiling in the sun to earn the paltry wages of ₹200 a day under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), a few thousand investors bought and sold shares worth $155 billion and bet on a trillion dollars worth of financial derivatives (notional value) in India’s stock market. The activity in the stock market during the lockdown was 60% higher than in the same period last year.Despite the lockdown, the top 50 companies in India’s stock markets added $35 billion in wealth. India’s stock market indices are at their highest levels ever. The prospect of freedom from Covid-19 by vaccination is bound to excite India’s stock markets further and turn them even more “bullish”. A tiny tax on stock market transactions can help fund India’s vaccination drive without burning a hole in the fat wallets of stock market investors and give the government fiscal headroom for other expenditure to help save lives and livelihoods.A Covid-19 vaccine surcharge just for the next fiscal year (FY2022) could be added to the securities transaction tax (STT) structure on stock market transactions. Currently, trading in shares carries a 0.1% STT while financial derivatives have a complex STT structure of varying rates for varying products. The surcharge can be an additional flat charge of 0.1% (10 basis points) on the value of all buy and sell transactions in shares and derivatives in the stock market. So, if a buyer buys shares worth ₹1 crore from a seller, both the buyer and seller will pay just ₹10,000 each as a Covid vaccine surcharge. While this may be an additional burden on stock market investors, it is a mere pinprick for them but one that could help inoculate a billion Indians and nurse India’s $3 trillion economy back to health quickly.The government earned ₹12,800 crore from STT last year (FY2020). Given the 60% increased activity in the stock markets this year, the government may earn ₹20,000 crore in STT in FY2021. With a Covid vaccine surcharge, the government can potentially earn an additional ₹20-30,000 crore next year (FY2022), to be used exclusively for India’s vaccination drive. All Indians above 18 years can be vaccinated for free with this additional revenue for the government. The economic benefits of a vaccinated population will be reaped quickly by stock market participants as the economy bounces back faster.Financial economists and market participants will expectedly argue that such a transaction tax will deter investors from the stock market and trading volumes will plummet. This is mere fear-mongering. In the 15 years since STT was introduced in March 2005, rates have been increased four times. But there has been no consequent reduction in stock market activity. On the contrary, trading in shares has more than doubled and trading in derivatives has increased 12 times in the in the last decade. There is simply no evidence to show that a small transaction tax has caused investors to abandon the lure of profits from India’s booming stock markets.Central banks across the world have pumped enormous liquidity into the global financial sector, which is now awash with cash and searching for investment opportunities. A fully vaccinated India coupled with the prospect of a faster economic recovery is a mouth-watering investment opportunity for global investors. Hence, it is even less likely now that a small one-year transaction tax will drive investors away, especially when the tax proceeds are used to pay for vaccination which will only help the economy and the stock market investors immediately.Before economists argue over demand versus supply side policies for the Covid-19-impacted economy, the necessary condition for a strong economic recovery is conquering the coronavirus by vaccinating all Indians.The brahmastra for this battle may be found in Mumbai’s Dalal Street and its “warrior” investors.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/vaccinating-all-indians-for-free-101611493626837.html
25-01-2021||News||Farm protests: The costs of a prolonged standoff||We did what we could, now the ball is in your court.” With these words, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar brought to an end the 11th round of talks between the farmers’ leaders and the government on Friday. Unlike in the previous 10 rounds, there is no date set for the next round of dialogue — both sides now have to pull back from the precipice, if things have to move forward.The government showed flexibility by postponing the implementation of the controversial laws for a year-and-a-half, and offered to reach an agreement through negotiations during this period. But the farmers are firm in their resolve, demanding a repeal of the laws, and have announced plans to intensify their movement. They are also determined to take out a tractor rally on January 26.On Saturday evening, while tensions mounted, there was positive news. During a marathon conversation between the farmers and the Delhi Police, it was agreed that the proposed tractor rally would be allowed to enter Delhi on Republic Day. The police had opposed this earlier. Though the details of the route have not been disclosed yet, farmers have apparently agreed not to make any stops or deviate from the agreed upon path. The onus for the whole event passing off peacefully is now squarely on the Delhi Police and the farm leaders. The movement has been peaceful so far, and so great care must be taken that agent provocateurs do not try to disrupt the rally when it enters Delhi.But, it must be asked — why is it that, despite the government displaying its willingness to take a step back, the matter was not resolved? An old anecdote may offer a clue. Some time in the 1990s, a friend of mine, a senior Indian Administrative Services officer, was suddenly offered the post of collector in an important district by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government. This district was known for farm agitations and demonstrations. My friend later spoke about dealing with the farmers effectively. When asked how he did that, he replied that if farm discontent is not controlled in time, different kinds of problems could potentially arise. This could take the form of a sit-in at the agitation site, and with an increase in crowd size, the escalation of their demands. I recalled his words — and the need to address issues in time or face escalation — when witnessing the collapse of talks in the 11th round now.The matter should have been dealt with when the agitation was confined to Punjab. Now it has taken hold in Haryana. Many felt the farmers found support in Punjab as it is ruled by the Congress. But what explains the support they have got in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Haryana? Instead of talking to the farmers, the state government used water cannons and tear-gas shells, even the roads were dug up to stop the farmers moving towards Delhi. But, nothing has worked.This has to be seen through the prism of the Jat-Sikh psyche. This is a community whose ancestors fought against the Mughals, and this is why their traditional proverbs and songs are about a glorious narrative of fighting the takht (seat) of Delhi. While the agitating farmers have no intention of occupying any seat in Delhi, they are not likely to back off easily. Initially, many hasty conclusions were arrived at when assessing the agitation. One theory was that it was just a ragtag movement by some disparate farmers. But this was clearly flawed.Sikh gurdwaras have a tradition of providing assistance to agitators. The concept of seva (service) is a recurring theme among the farmers. This is the service, which was initiated by the Sikh gurus to strengthen the morale and fibre of society. Today, community kitchens, pharmacies, toilets and laundry services are being run as a part of the tradition of gurdwaras at the agitation site. All this seems commendable, but it does give rise to several questions, some of which relate to national security.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have received support from the border areas of western UP and Rajasthan. While many of these areas are Jat-dominated, it would be a mistake to assume that this is just a Jat farmers’ movement. It is also true that the movement has not yet expanded geographically beyond a certain area.No one doubts the patriotic credentials of the agitating farmers. But in the 1980s, a terrible catastrophe opened the doors to militancy in Punjab and interference from across borders. When emotions are running high, a small spark can snowball into a firestorm. Past experience suggests that it is best to resolve disputes well in time before they spiral out of control. The government has extended an olive branch. The farmers must respect this and reciprocate. The tone set on Saturday should pave the way for a permanent solution.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/farm-protests-the-costs-of-a-prolonged-standoff-101611493566988.html
