29-01-2021||News||Jaishankar yellow-cards China for violating pacts, spells out the India way||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s address at a conference on Thursday makes it amply clear that the only way forward for the two countries is for their armies to go back to their permanent bases along the 1597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh as they existed in April 2020.Jaishankar’s speech lucidly spells out that India and China are competitors in both the Asian and global context and that New Delhi is not the regional south Asian player that Beijing wants it to be. The three mutual and eight broad propositions spelt out by the minister, who was India’s longest-serving envoy to China over the past decade, are reminders to Beijing that the bilateral relationship between the two Asian powers is not a one-way street. The proposition that India and China are civilization states, something that Beijing seems so reluctant to acknowledge about New Delhi, is designed to remind the Middle Kingdom that all civilization states have their ups and downs in their history and nothing is permanent.That the Xi Jinping regime must adhere to all past agreements and desist from any unilateral change of status quo of LAC is also a clear message from the Modi government that any new agreement, possibly on disengagement and de-escalation, will have credibility only if the past understandings are honoured in letter and spirit. Simply put, the Modi government wants iron-clad guarantees that China will not repeat the 2020 aggression on the north or south banks of Pangong Tso if and when the Indian Army goes back to its permanent base as part of any future understanding on East Ladakh.In his speech, Jaishankar has yellow-carded China for using Pakistan as a proxy in its rivalry with India and at the same time expecting New Delhi to be neutral in its conduct of foreign policy. The fact is that China has used Pakistan to block India’s entry into the Nuclear’s Suppliers Group though the two ‘iron brothers’, as Islamabad and Beijing describe their relationship, have a patchy track record on nuclear non-proliferation.China also backed Pakistan to get global terrorists such as Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar off the hook at the UNSC 1267 committee while both of them tried to frame Indian engineers working in Afghanistan in terror cases.In the present context too, Beijing has been talking about de-escalation plans with New Delhi for East Ladakh but has been making aggressive moves in north Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.While Beijing routinely fires threats at other countries including India to dissuade them from taking up the issue of Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong or Taiwan, China hasn’t respected Indian sovereignty by taking up huge infrastructure projects in the occupied Northern Areas and Kashmir in its endeavour to use warm water ports of Gwadar and Karachi for trade with Middle-East and the Persian Gulf.Jaishankar’s speech, delivered against this backdrop, signals India’s determination to continue to stand up to Xi Jinping’s expansionist plans for Asia as an equal and make it clear that nothing that Beijing does against India will be overlooked, or allowed to go unpunished. The ball is firmly in China’s court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/jaishankar-yellow-cards-china-for-violations-of-pacts-spells-out-the-india-way-101611905237020.html
29-01-2021||News||Jack Ma story: China’s deep strategic ambition||Earlier this month, the Chinese tech tycoon, Jack Ma, made his first public appearance ever since the suspension of Ant Group’s $37 billion IPO in November. Ant is an affiliate company of Alibaba, the e-commerce giant that he co-founded. The crackdown on Ant followed Jack Ma’s comments in late October during a public event in Shanghai. He had then criticised Chinese regulators for harbouring a “pawnshop mentality,” focusing on pledges and collaterals when it came to finance.According to the Wall Street Journal’s reportage, this was the last straw in the battle between the regulators and Jack Ma, with President Xi Jinping personally engaged in greenlighting regulations that would scuttle Ant’s plans. The politics of personalities, of course, is a key component of all of this. However, viewing the developments with regard to Ant simply through such a prism or as an issue of Jack Ma being tamed after he had become too big for his boots is missing the woods for the trees. Ant Group’s case lies at the intersection of the changes that are taking place in the Chinese Party-State’s approach to the financial and technology sectors. Essentially, these are about expanding the State’s authority over private entities to meet the challenges of stability and direct capital towards strategic imperatives. This approach is captured in official statements that talk about “preventing capital from expanding in a disorderly fashion,” something that was among the eight priorities identified after December’s Central Economic Work Conference.As far back as 2017, Xi had listed “preventing financial risks” as one of the “three tough battles” that the party must prioritise. Given the expanding size of the fintech sector, stricter regulations shouldn’t really come as a surprise. Ant, of course, is the leader in this space. It operates Alipay, a payments app with more than 1.3 billion users. An overwhelming majority of these come from China, with others coming via e-wallet partnerships in other countries, including India. Over the years, Alipay has expanded the scope of its services to include online shopping along with linking to a suite of wealth management products and lending services. As part of the latter, it connects banks to small firms and individuals. According to estimates, Ant has facilitated loans to more than 20 million small businesses and hundreds of millions of individuals. The risk in all of this is largely borne by banks, while Ant earns a transaction fee. For instance, Ant reportedly funds merely two per cent of its consumer loans, estimated at $257 billion. This expansion into multiple business streams, the ability to then pick and choose winners, and lack of risk-sharing are what regulators are currently targeting through anti-monopoly rules by placing greater capital requirements for firms engaged in microlending. Ant’s case may have been the trigger, but the changes have sector-wide implications. These are likely to continue to evolve further as the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, operationalises its new digital currency.Reigning in the fintech sector, however, is just one aspect of the sweeping changes taking place across the technology ecosystem in China. There is a slew of regulatory shifts that have either been proposed recently or are being debated. These touch upon areas ranging from data protection and privacy, anti-monopoly, news and content moderation, the scope of internet services and responsibilities of service providers, and taxation of the digital economy. Of course, there are multiple objectives that these changes are seeking to meet, including keeping pace with technological advancement and addressing consumer concerns. But the fundamental principle underlying them is to rebalance the power dynamic between the State and technology firms in favour of the former.The primary driver to do so is the increasing acknowledgement of the strategic role of innovation in powering future growth along with the vision of the State’s role in guiding the markets to ensure this. This was underscored in the communique issued after the Fifth Plenary session in late October, as it was in the statement issued at the end of the Central Economic Work Conference. The latter was categorical. It listed “national strategic scientific and technological strength” as the top priority, and called for a “new nationwide system” that must give “full play to the role of the state as the organizer of major scientific and technological innovation.” This statist vision of the future is very different from the government creating a level-playing field for private capital to compete and the market to do its job. It is about the State guiding capital and private entities towards what it believes are national strategic priorities, rather than allowing them to simply focus on generating greater revenue. These priorities include expanding research and making breakthroughs in core technologies. This, Beijing hopes, will reduce China’s dependence on the West, easing the threat of coercion. At the same time, the regulatory innovation that it is attempting will likely bolster China’s capacity to shape global technology governance norms and standards.Manoj Kewalramani is fellow, China Studies at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/jack-ma-story-china-s-deep-strategic-ambition-101611843191458.html
