01-01-2021||India||‘Not an astrologer’: Tomar on January 4 meeting, farmers to intensify protest if demands not met||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said while he hopes for a positive meeting with the leaders of the protesting farmers’ unions, he can’t say whether the seventh round of talks between the Centre and the farmers will be final. “I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers,” the minister told news agency PTI.After five failed attempts to break the ice between the Centre and farmers over the recently passed farm laws, the sixth meeting held on December 30 yielded some positive results as the Centre conceded to farmers’ demands regarding electricity and stubble burning. Farmers have demanded a legal guarantee of the minimum support price system, which the Centre has not agreed to. More discussion will take place on January 4 though there are slim chances that the situation will be solved as farmers are pursuing their demand of repealing the laws which the Centre is unlike to do. The farmers, meanwhile, have decided to intensify their agitation if their demands are not met on January 4. Saying that only five per cent of their demands have so far been discussed, farmer leaders on Friday said they will announce dates for shutting all malls and petrol pumps in Haryana. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border will also move towards the national capital, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said. Another leader Yudhveer Singh said that a tractor march will be held on January 6 if no concrete decision is taken in the next round of talks.Meanwhile, more than 850 faculty members of various educational institutions, including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, JNU, have written an open letter in which they have supported the farm laws, PTI reported. “The Union government has repeatedly assured the farmers that these three bills on farm trade wouldn’t do away with Minimum Support Price (MSP), but rather free the farm trade from all illicit market restrictions, open the market beyond ‘mandis’ and further assists the small and marginal farmers to sell their produce at market/competitive prices,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-say-if-january-4-meeting-with-farmers-will-be-final-says-narendra-singh-tomar/story-6e2Qjp1hibjSL9hqLkLqkM.html
01-01-2021||NA||DMK demands Tamil Nadu Assembly resolution against Central farm laws||DMK chief M K Stalin on Friday urged Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami to take a cue from Punjab and Kerala and get a resolution adopted in the state assembly seeking repeal of the three contentious Cenrtal farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting near Delhi.Stalin, the Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, wrote to the chief minister seeking convening of a special session of the House immediately for the purpose, a day after the Kerala Assembly adopted a resolution pressing for repeal of the laws.Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting for nearly 40 days near Delhi demanding scrapping of the Central agri laws, contending that they were harmful to their interests, a charge rejected by the government.The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, an ally of the BJP which is in power at the Centre, has been defending the farm laws with Palaniswami himself saying they do not affect the farmers, especially those from his state.Stalin said farmers have been protesting outside Delhi for 37 days, braving the cold but ‘determined’ on their stand, seeking repealing of the three legislations.“Being the first state to have given farm loan waiver and free electricity to farmers, it is imperative that Tamil Nadu stands by the farmers during this period of crisis for them and help in realisation of their demands,” Stalin said.“I request that a resolution be adopted in the state assembly against the three central farm laws and the House be convened immediately for it,” he added.Congress-ruled Punjab and Left-led Kerala, besides the AAP government in Delhi, had earlier adopted assembly resolutions backing the agitating farmers and seeking repeal of the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/dmk-demands-tamil-nadu-assembly-resolution-against-central-farm-laws/story-SHSv1eqoPY3kafpeydFUON.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic diverted||Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed on Friday for those coming to the national capital from Noida and Ghaziabad because of the farmers’ agitation over the three farms laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector.The traffic police have advised commuters from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. They have continued checking at these border crossing points to ensure protesting farmers do not sneak in. This has slowed down traffic.Also Read: Ringing in New Year with slogans and songs of resistance at Delhi’s Singhu borderDelhi’s border crossing points with Haryana--Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh--also continued to remain closed. Jhatikara is open for light vehicles and pedestrians. A single carriageway of the Jharoda border is also open for traffic.The traffic police said they have diverted traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, and Dundahera.Commuters may even find the India Gate and C-Hexagon inaccessible during the early afternoon on Friday in case the number of visitors is unusually high there. If that happens, the traffic police will divert traffic before it reaches India Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-to-other-routes/story-6LTbECuJppiqnrCEc0Zi0J.html
01-01-2021||NA||DMK demands Tamil Nadu Assembly resolution against Central farm laws||DMK chief M K Stalin on Friday urged Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami to take a cue from Punjab and Kerala and get a resolution adopted in the state assembly seeking repeal of the three contentious Cenrtal farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting near Delhi.Stalin, the Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, wrote to the chief minister seeking convening of a special session of the House immediately for the purpose, a day after the Kerala Assembly adopted a resolution pressing for repeal of the laws.Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting for nearly 40 days near Delhi demanding scrapping of the Central agri laws, contending that they were harmful to their interests, a charge rejected by the government.The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, an ally of the BJP which is in power at the Centre, has been defending the farm laws with Palaniswami himself saying they do not affect the farmers, especially those from his state.Stalin said farmers have been protesting outside Delhi for 37 days, braving the cold but ‘determined’ on their stand, seeking repealing of the three legislations.“Being the first state to have given farm loan waiver and free electricity to farmers, it is imperative that Tamil Nadu stands by the farmers during this period of crisis for them and help in realisation of their demands,” Stalin said.“I request that a resolution be adopted in the state assembly against the three central farm laws and the House be convened immediately for it,” he added.Congress-ruled Punjab and Left-led Kerala, besides the AAP government in Delhi, had earlier adopted assembly resolutions backing the agitating farmers and seeking repeal of the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/dmk-demands-tamil-nadu-assembly-resolution-against-central-farm-laws/story-SHSv1eqoPY3kafpeydFUON.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmers continue protests outside Delhi, say no question of withdrawing 2 demands||Thousands of farmers continued their protest against the three farm laws on the first day of 2021 on Friday outside several border points of Delhi in the biting cold as they remained firm in their demands amid a deadlock with the government over two issues. Hundreds of police personnel have been deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping since November 26, even as the minimum temperature dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, according to news agency PTI, is likely to meet during the day to discuss its next course of action. Senior farmers’ leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has said there is, however, no question of withdrawing from the two issues which are a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and repealing of the farm laws, PTI reported.“The government has addressed our demands to drop penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law,” Chaduni said. “But, we want to make it clear that there is no alternative to our two remaining demands which include repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for MSP,” he added.Also read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic divertedPTI reported that the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farm unions, has issued a statement saying the Centre’s appeal to farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws is impossible. “The new laws will hand over control of agriculture markets, farmers’ land and food chain to corporates,” the committee said in the statement.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said, after the sixth round of talks between ministers and a 41-member representative, on Wednesday that consensus has been reached on two of the four issues. Tomar had also said that the next meeting with farmers representatives will be held on January 4. Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers. The minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance as he talked about the farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP).Also read | India’s protesting farmers hold key to self-reliance in edible oilsTraffic issuesAs the farmers’ protests continued, Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed due to the agitation and suggested alternate roads. “Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” they said in a series of tweets. “The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” they added.Also read | Kerala passes resolution against farm laws“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they said. “Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet.The government has said that the three farm laws, which were brought in September last year, have are major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, however, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. On its part, the Centre has reiterated the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Centre over the farm laws in his New Year’s message on Friday. “As the New Year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy New Year to all,” he tweeted.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-continue-protests-outside-delhi-say-no-question-of-withdrawing-2-demands/story-CnxAWoX0tyPPblTOFHrVRM.html
01-01-2021||India||After supporting Kerala assembly’s resolution against farm laws, BJP’s Rajagopal retracts||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) O Rajagopal, who had supported the unanimous resolution passed by the Kerala legislative assembly against the Centre’s three farm laws, has now said he had argued that the central government was “always ready for the talks”.Rajagopal, the BJP’s only member in Kerala, issued a statement later on Thursday, saying he “opposed the resolution” adopted by the assembly. “I have strongly opposed the resolution against farm laws today in the assembly. I did not oppose the central government. I said that the farm laws were very beneficial to the farmers. When ruling and opposition MLAs alleged that the Prime Minister was not negotiating with the farmers, I argued that the central government was always ready for the talks,” Rajagopal said in a statement, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Kerala passes resolution against farm laws“I said that farmer unions stand that they would engage in dialogue only after withdrawing the farm laws is the reason for the protests to continue in a prolonged manner. The statements that I am against the central government are baseless,” he added.Rajagopal, who represents the Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, had spoken against the resolution in the House initially but when it was put to voice vote he did not stage a walkout and supported it. After the session, when reporters asked him about it, he said he supported the resolution in accordance with the “democratic spirit of the house”. “I raised my disagreement in clear terms. But I supported the substance of the resolution in accordance with the democratic spirit. Nothing big about it, in a democracy such compromises are common,” he had said. Also read | In New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm lawsThe BJP leader said that Congress had earlier included similar farm laws in its manifesto. “I have made it clear that Congress in their election manifesto had included similar farm laws and that the CPI(M) too has demanded it through a resolution. The speaker did not ask during voting about those who support the resolution and those who oppose it. It was reduced to a single question without being asked separately, which is a violation of the norms,” Rajagopal said.Also read Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic divertedK Surendran, the BJP’s state unit president, had said he will talk to Rajagopal after he supported the farm laws. “There is no difference of opinion in the party. He is a senior leader and we don’t think he will support the resolution. I will talk to him about this,” Surendran said.The Kerala assembly passed the resolution, which was introduced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, unanimously against the three farm laws during the special session. “The Centre wants to corporatise the farm sector. It must come forward to allay farmers’ fears. The entire country is with them. It should recognise public sentiment and withdraw the new laws,” Vijayan had said. The resolution in the Kerala assembly came a day after the protesting farmers and the government held the fifth round of talks on Wednesday. They reached consensus on two of four issues on the agenda. Farmer leaders have been protesting on borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-supporting-kerala-assembly-s-resolution-against-farm-laws-bjp-s-rajagopal-retracts/story-oSSFM4FY65vnrFEOLvX9WJ.html
01-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In his New Year message, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In his New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm lawsTaking a veiled dig at the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in this New Year’s message on Friday his heart was with the farmers who were fighting “unjust forces with dignity and honour”. Read MorePM Modi to lay foundation stone of Light House Projects at 6 sites todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) via video conferencing across six states. Read MoreWHO grants ‘emergency validation’ to Pfizer-BioNTech vaccineThe World Health Organization on Thursday granted emergency validation to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, paving the way for countries worldwide to quickly approve its import and distribution. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Wouldn’t be too quick to judge Steve Smith,’ Australia’s assistant coach expects former captain and Marnus Labuschagne to find form soonSteve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne have failed to perform to the level they are expected to so far and Australia team’s inability to hold the ground during this rough patch has further hit them. Read MoreVidya Balan wasn’t first choice for Hum Paanch, said she was an ‘awkward teenager’ when she was castActor Vidya Balan broke into Bollywood with 2005’s Parineeta, but before that, she had already established herself in the television industry with a role in the hit sitcom Hum Paanch. Read MoreGoogle Doodle wishes Happy New Year with an adorable animationGoogle welcomed the New Year with a new doodle. The company that is known for its awe-generating animations went all-out for their New Year’s Day doodle. Read More‘January 1’ imparts some advice in heartening clip posted by Harsh GoenkaStarting off the first day of a new year can be an exciting experience. If you’re looking for some encouraging content to begin the day on the right foot, then here is a motivational video that you must watch. Read More‘Aim to represent India in Olympics’: 13-year-old Amairah ChadhaAmairah Chadha, the 13-year-old Equestrian, recently won two bronze medals at the Junior National Equestrian Championship held in Delhi in December 2020. Chadha speaks to Hindustan Times about her experience in the sport and the tournaments she is eyeing. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-his-new-year-message-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-veiled-dig-at-centre-over-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GciSQhibn74Fb9hAsW7smM.html
01-01-2021||India||In New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm laws||Taking a veiled dig at the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in this New Year’s message on Friday his heart was with the farmers who were fighting “unjust forces with dignity and honour”. “As the New Year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy New Year to all,” he tweeted. As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all. pic.twitter.com/L0esBsMeqWThe Congress leader has spoken up on several occasions in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. On December 24, after meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind along with other party members to discuss demands made by the farmers, Rahul Gandhi said, ”India is now an imaginary democracy”.On December 27 too, he targeted the Centre over the protests, saying that the farmers should keep walking and not be scared of the ‘bluster of the government’. He used a modified version of Dwarkaprasad Maheshwari’s popular poem “Veer Tum Badhe Chalo” to make the point. “Keep walking O brave one, patiently you move ahead. Doesn’t matter if there is a water cannon shower or bluster/bravado, you don’t fear, O fearless one. You remain firm, and walk on. O ‘annadata’, you keep walking,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Thousands of farmers have been protesting for over a month against the new farm laws. Their demand that the three farm laws be completely repealed has not been accepted by the government. Even after several rounds of talks between the two parties, the government has only suggested amending the laws. The farmers have, however, said they will accept nothing less than complete repealing of these laws.Another round of meetings between the government and representatives of the farmers is scheduled to take place on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-his-new-year-greetings-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-veiled-dig-at-centre/story-yYHxrnNE67cJWQHDaVQFjP.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: Next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4, says Yogendra Yadav||Protests against the three agricultural laws reached day 37 on Friday, the first day of a new decade. Sixth round of talks took place between the government and the farmers’ unions on Wednesday, with the two sides arriving at a consensus on two of the four issues raised by the farmers. However, deadlock continues on the two main demands: legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the contentious laws. However, as the meeting took place in a “positive” atmosphere, and ended with a consensus on two demands, the farmer leaders postponed till January 4, their proposed tractor rally against the laws. January is the date the seventh round of talks will take place.Also Read | Ringing in New Year with slogans and songs of resistance at Delhi’s Singhu borderThursday, day 36 of the stir, saw Kerala become the first state to pass a resolution against the laws. Also on Thursday, a group of farmers, protesting at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, broke police barricades and entered Haryana, even as the Haryana Police fired tear gas shells and water cannons .Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, demanding a repeal of what they describe as “black laws.” They have repeatedly stressed that they have come prepared for the “long haul” and won’t go back till the laws are repealed.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Barricades broken, police fire tear gas in RajasthanOf the six round of talks, four have taken place in December itself, on 1, 3, 5 and 30 December.Follow all major highlights of the day here:Govt hopeful of “positive outcome” at next meeting with farmers’ unions: Narendra Singh TomarGovt hopeful of “positive outcome” at next meeting with farmers’ unions on Jan 4: Agri Minister Narendra Singh Tomar tells PTI.If January 4 meeting with government fails, will announce dates for shutting all malls etc: Farmer unionsIf January 4 meeting with government fails to end deadlock, we will announce dates for shutting all malls, petrol pumps in Haryana: Farmer unions.Claims that 50 percent of issues have been resolved are false: Yogendra YadavThe claims that 50 percent of issues have been resolved are false. Our two main demands — three farm bills should be scrapped and legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) are still pending: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4: Yogendra YadavThe next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4, 2021 and if our demands are not accepted, we will hold march at Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) on January 6. We will announce a date about when and move forward from Shahjahanpur border: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Stalin writes to Tamil Nadu CM seeking special assembly session to bring resolution against Centre’s farm lawsDravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Friday wrote a letter to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswamy, seeking a special assembly session to bring resolution against Centre’s farm laws.Turban langar organised by ‘Khalsa Youth Group’ at Singhu Border Turban langar organised by ‘Khalsa Youth Group’ at Singhu Border for protesting farmers today.‘Nagar Kirtan’ held at Singhu border‘Nagar Kirtan’ organised at Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws for over 30 days. 'Nagar Kirtan' organised at Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws for over 30 days pic.twitter.com/aFwCCetJNMFarmers not convinced by government’s outreachThe government has, on several occasions, reached out to the farmers, but has not been able to convince them. PM Modi has clarified several times that the MSP will stay and, on December 30, defence minister Rajnath Singh gave an in-depth interview to ANI, but that hasn’t worked thus far.DMK chief MK Stalin urges Tamil Nadu CM to hold special assembly sessionDMK chief MK Stalin writes to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to hold a special assembly session to bring a resolution against the Centre’s farm laws.Chilla and Ghazipur borders closed for traffic to Delhi, says traffic policeChilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmers’ protest: Delhi Traffic PoliceAlso Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic diverted to other routesMy heart is with the farmers: Rahul Gandhi’s New Year greetings“As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all,” tweets Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all. pic.twitter.com/L0esBsMeqWAnti-farm law protests enter day 37Protests against the three farm laws entered day 37 on Friday, two days after the sixth round of talks between the government and the farmers’ unions ended with the two sides agreeing on two of the four demands raised by the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-1-2021/story-iHHv8HeXh4jeB2UvPzITVO.html
01-01-2021||India||In New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm laws||Taking a veiled dig at the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in this New Year’s message on Friday his heart was with the farmers who were fighting “unjust forces with dignity and honour”. “As the New Year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy New Year to all,” he tweeted. As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all. pic.twitter.com/L0esBsMeqWThe Congress leader has spoken up on several occasions in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. On December 24, after meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind along with other party members to discuss demands made by the farmers, Rahul Gandhi said, ”India is now an imaginary democracy”.On December 27 too, he targeted the Centre over the protests, saying that the farmers should keep walking and not be scared of the ‘bluster of the government’. He used a modified version of Dwarkaprasad Maheshwari’s popular poem “Veer Tum Badhe Chalo” to make the point. “Keep walking O brave one, patiently you move ahead. Doesn’t matter if there is a water cannon shower or bluster/bravado, you don’t fear, O fearless one. You remain firm, and walk on. O ‘annadata’, you keep walking,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Thousands of farmers have been protesting for over a month against the new farm laws. Their demand that the three farm laws be completely repealed has not been accepted by the government. Even after several rounds of talks between the two parties, the government has only suggested amending the laws. The farmers have, however, said they will accept nothing less than complete repealing of these laws.Another round of meetings between the government and representatives of the farmers is scheduled to take place on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-his-new-year-greetings-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-veiled-dig-at-centre/story-yYHxrnNE67cJWQHDaVQFjP.html
