04-01-2021||India||‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealed||Shortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.Tikait’s statement comes after the Centre ruled out any possibility of repealing the laws at the talks, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. The Centre was represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapasi-farmer-leader-vows-to-keep-protesting-till-farm-laws-are-repealed/story-SytXMGCGKDhl15XQPV5efL.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closed||The Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida continue to remain partially blocked on Monday with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi. At both the borders, traffic going towards Delhi was diverted, with farmers blocking one carriageway as their agitation against three new farm bills continues. The Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continue to remain completely blocked since November. A senior police officer said traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual at Chilla border, while the carriageway leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continue to block one carriageway on the Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway, while the other one for those exiting Delhi is open with normal traffic, he said.Also Read: Farmers’ protests: Heavy rain hits UP Gate, Noida sites, but fails to dampen spirits“We have sufficient deployment of security personnel at both the borders to ensure law and order,” the officer said.At the Ghazipur border, the NH-24 service lane that has been blocked by the farmers November 27 onwards, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Monday.Apart from the Chilla and Ghazipur borders, seven border that continue to remain completely blocked, are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders.Delhi traffic police, in its advisory, asked people to use alternate routes to enter Delhi via Chilla, Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The traffic police said that the currently open borders to Haryana are the following Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Traffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.In one of their tweets, the Delhi traffic police said, “The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders.”Police also tweeted, ”Singhu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-partially-closed/story-EYJ4KLPBoQJdGXCp8OpMGP.html
04-01-2021||India||46 farmers have died during protests so far, four in last 24 hours||At least four farmers, of the thousands camped at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September last year, have died in the last 24 hours, police said.Police records showed that a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh, have died at the Kundli-Singhu border, while 10 have died at Tikri border so far. Farmer leaders, on the other hand, claimed that 46 farmers had sacrificed their lives across all border points of the city.As per records, 18-year-old Jashanpreet Singh of Punjab died of heart attack and Jagbir Singh, 65, of Jind died due to biting cold on Saturday night at Tikri border. At Kundli-Singhu border, Kulbir Singh, 52, a resident of Gangana village in Sonepat was found dead on Sunday in a tent and Shamsher Singh, 45, a resident of Sangrur also died at Civil hospital in Sonepat, after his health deteriorated.PGIMS spokesman, Dr Gajender Singh said Jashanpreet was referred to PGIMS from Bahadurgarh civil hospital on Saturday night, after he suffered a heart attack.“After reaching here, he passed away. Another farmer, Jagbir Singh, who suffered a cold stroke, died here on Saturday night. We have conducted their post-mortem examinations and handed over their bodies to their family members,” he added.Read more| We are used to harsh weather: Farmers unfazedShamsher Singh, investigating officer of Kundli police station, said the protesting farmers had spotted the body of Kulbir Singh at a tent near the protesting here on Sunday morning.“The farmers said he had complained of body pain and had gone to bed on Saturday night after eating langar. After receiving news of his demise, his co-villager Yudhishthira suffered heart attack and was rushed to civil hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. Another farmer, Shamsher Singh from Sangrur in Punjab, also suffered a heart attack and died during treatment at Civil hospital here. He had joined the stir five days ago, according to farmers. We have handed over the bodies to their family members after conducting autopsies,” he added.Singh said a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh have died at Kundli-Singhu border so far and most of them died due to heart attack or cold conditions.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan sabha said as many as 46 farmers had given their sacrifice in the ongoing agitation.“ These people are those who died either on borders or on their way to join the stir,” he added.Addressing a press conference in Sonepat, former Haryana chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the government should take the matter up seriously and resolve the issue.“Four farmers have sacrificed their lives in the past 24 hours and over 45 people have died in the agitation. I am surprised why the government is neglecting the farmers and their demands,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-farmers-have-died-during-protests-so-far-four-in-last-24-hours/story-6OmK8CvjaueLngDxuZJ5rL.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC to bring resolution against farm bills in West Bengal assembly||The ruling Trinamool Congress will bring a resolution at the West Bengal legislative assembly against the three contentious farm bills, party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “We would hold the assembly session for one or two days and there we would bring a resolution to withdraw the farm bills. We would try so that the resolution is passed unanimously. I know the BJP will not support it. But I expect other parties would support,” Banerjee said. Banerjee had earlier lent her support to the farmers and had even sent a team of MPs to meet the protesting farmers at Singhu border. Over the phone, she even spoke to farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s new agriculture laws.Meanwhile, the tussle between the centre and the state over release of funds under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program to farmers in West Bengal continued. Also read: Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8Banerjee alleged that the centre is depriving the farmers of West Bengal by not sending funds under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program. Under the scheme, an income support of Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having combined landholding or ownership of up to 2 hectares.“I had urged the centre to send the money to the state government so that we could distribute it to the farmers. But they want to send it directly bypassing the state. I called the Union agriculture minister a few days ago and asked him why the centre does not believe in the state government,” she said. Earlier, the BJP had hit out at the TMC after the Calcutta High Court had directed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India to perform an audit of the distribution of relief materials and compensation in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan that hit West Bengal in May last year. Alleged nepotism and malpractice by the TMC panchayat leaders involved in the distribution of compensation had turned into an issue in poll-bound West Bengal. The state had later moved the Supreme Court against the order.BJP leaders had earlier alleged that the Mamata Banerjee administration was not allowing the centre to send funds directly to farmers as it would prevent the state and TMC leaders from siphoning off money.On November 6, the centre had informed the Mamata Banerjee administration that around 21.7 lakh farmers from West Bengal had enrolled themselves for the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program in the union government’s portal and that the state government was yet to complete the verification process. “I want the farmers to get the funds and so we have already written to the Union government to share the details of the farmers who have enrolled themselves, so that the state can start the verification process,” said Banerjee. BJP leaders in the state have hit back saying that the CM was presenting things in a wrong manner. “The Centre had repeatedly asked the state to provide the names of farmers and their bank accounts. The state didn’t send. Union home minister, during his visit to the state, had said that if the state sends the data, the Centre would immediately release the funds. The centre had sent funds after cyclone Amphan had hit the state. What happened to that money?” said Jaiprakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-to-bring-resolution-against-farm-bills-in-west-bengal-assembly/story-yQWe7oWq5lBxVdCnWIp5tM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealed||Shortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.Tikait’s statement comes after the Centre ruled out any possibility of repealing the laws at the talks, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. The Centre was represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapasi-farmer-leader-vows-to-keep-protesting-till-farm-laws-are-repealed/story-SytXMGCGKDhl15XQPV5efL.html
04-01-2021||India||Govt, farmers’ talks over agri laws underway, both sides hope for positive solution||The seventh round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the central leadership to end the impasse over agricultural laws, enacted in September last year, began at the Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi on Monday. Both the parties observed two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to the 50 protesting farmers who died during the agitation.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash along with government officials are in a meeting with farmers represented by a team of 41 leaders. Before the meet, Tomar said. “I am hopeful that we will find a positive solution today. We will discuss all issues in the meeting.” Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Speaking to news agency ANI, a farm union leader too said, “We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year.” Hannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”During the sixth round of negotiations, some common ground was reached on concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. The Centre had agreed to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedAhead of the meeting Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders to demand a complete rollback of three contentious agri laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020— for over a month. They have threatened to carry out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26 if the their demands are not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-farmers-observe-2-min-silence-for-50-peasants-who-died-during-agitation/story-vFv5bZw3dxcZHK7xD2KRSL.html
04-01-2021||India||Farm law protests: Its towers vandalised in Punjab, Reliance says will move high court today||Business tycoon Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), whose Jio Infocomm towers have been allegedly targeted by a section of farmers in Punjab protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws, on Monday said it will file a petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking “immediate intervention” in this regard. RIL further accused “vested interests” of instigating and aiding the vandals.“Reliance Industries Limited, through its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, in a petition mentioned to be filed in Punjab and Haryana High Court today, has sought urgent intervention of govt authorities to bring a complete stop to illegal acts of vandalism by miscreants,” news agency ANI quoted RIL as saying. “These acts of violence have endangered the lives of thousands of employees and caused damage and disruption to the vital communications infrastructure. The miscreants indulging in vandalism have been instigated and aided by vested interests and our business rivals,” RIL added.The Ambani-owned conglomerate also stressed it has no plans of entering a contract or corporate farming, adding that it has not purchased any land in India for the purpose. “We shall insist on our suppliers to strictly abide by the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism. We have immense gratitude and the greatest respect for India’s kisans, who are the ‘ANNA DATA’ of 1.3 billion Indians,” RIL said.Farmers protesting against the three laws have, in particular, directed their ire at Reliance, as well as businessman Gautam Adani, believing that they shall be the beneficiaries of the laws. While anti-farm law protests have largely been peaceful, more than 1,500 towers have been vandalised in Punjab. Jio has more than 9,000 towers in the state.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Protestors damage over 1,500 telecom towers in PunjabAfter his appeal to the farmers to not vandalise the towers went unheard, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had last week directed the police to take action against the vandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-its-towers-vandalised-in-punjab-reliance-says-will-move-high-court-today/story-sPdZtvf3326NqGk596sj2O.html
04-01-2021||Business||Reliance says it has nothing to do with farm laws||Facing the brunt of farmer’s ire over perception of it being a beneficiary of new farm laws, Reliance Industries on Monday said it neither buys foodgrains directly from farmers nor is in the business of contract farming. In a statement, billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm said its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking “the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants.” Reliance said it “has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them.” “As such, the sole nefarious purpose of linking the name of Reliance to these laws is to harm our businesses and damage our reputation,” it said. The company said it does not do “corporate or contract farming” and has not bought “any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of “corporate” or “contract” farming.” Its retail unit which sells food grains and staples, fruits and vegetables and items of daily use through its stores, “does not purchase any food grains directly from farmers,” the statement said. “It has never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain unfair advantage over farmers or sought that its suppliers buy from farmers at less than remunerative prices, nor will it ever do so,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/reliance-says-it-has-nothing-to-do-with-farm-laws/story-ZKbBUSOMxJz2qAAY3ZdgPO.html
04-01-2021||India||Day ahead of talks with farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar meets Rajnath Singh to discuss strategy to end deadlock||A day before the crucial seventh round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmer unions, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh “all possible options” to find a “middle path” to resolve the crisis, sources added. Singh, who served as agriculture minister in the erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, has emerged as a key troubleshooter and is working mostly behind the scenes on this issue. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Rains since Saturday night led to waterlogging at the agitation venues, but the unions asserted that “we will not move from here until our demands are met”.Read more| Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in Jaipur After five rounds of inconclusive talks, the government and 40 farmer unions reached some common ground during the sixth round of negotiations on December 30 to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. On January 1, Tomar had told PTI that the government is hopeful of a “positive outcome” at its next meeting with farmers’ unions on January 4 but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks will be the last one. Asked whether he expects the January 4 meeting to be the last one, the minister said, “I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers.” Last week, protesting farmer unions issued an “ultimatum” that they will march into Delhi with a “tractor parade” on the Republic Day if their demands are not met in the next round of talks. “The farmers’ movement delivered an ultimatum to the Government of India and announced that farmers will march into Delhi on January 26,” Sankyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions, had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month demanding repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Read more| Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers’ income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met agriculture minister Tomar over the last few weeks to extend their support for the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-ahead-of-talks-with-farmers-narendra-singh-tomar-meets-rajnath-singh-to-discuss-strategy-to-end-deadlock/story-qsxUBlnhbHnohzgbluzyoI.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:Mamata Banerjee to convene special Assembly session for passing resolution against farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will make arrangement to convene Assembly session to pass resolution against farm laws’: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government will soon convene a session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by Parliament. Read More‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covid-19 efficacyAmid concerns regarding the efficacy data of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the company’s managing director Krishna Ella said that its vaccine is safe and the company is conducting trials in more than 12 countries apart from India. Read More‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealedShortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home. Read More‘It’s not social media, it’s Trump Media’: 5 key points from Donald Trump’s phone callUS President Donald Trump on Sunday was recorded on call by Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, putting pressure on the state secretary and his legal counsel to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the state. Read MoreFan asks Akhtar to pick between Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib doesn’t hesitate to make his choiceFormer Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar is known for his blunt remarks and to the point answers. So there was no surprise when he had no hesitation when asked to pick between Indian batting legends Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar. Read MoreAnushka Sharma goes for indoor jog in last stretch of pregnancy, does cardio workout on treadmillEven the cold and rainy weather could not deter mommy-to-be Anushka Sharma’s fitness routine as the diva turned to indoor jog on a treadmill. Read MoreKangana Ranaut mocks Diljit Dosanjh for holidaying abroad after ‘instigating’ farmers protest: ‘This is a true local revolution’Actor Kangana Ranaut has lobbed another attack at actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh, with whom she’s been involved in a Twitter feud that has extended into the new year. Read MoreWoman recreates famous artworks with her dog. They are ‘woofderful’When thinking of artistic classics such as The Starry Night by Vincent van Gogh or the American Gothic by Grant Wood, words such as “stunning” or “captivating” may come to one’s mind. Read More‘Ayurveda gave world first surgeon’: UP CM Yogi on doctors opposing new normsUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath criticised doctors opposed to the Central government’s move to allow Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-to-convene-special-assembly-session-for-passing-resolution-against-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NW8TFzrABbpiR1tYeBpShM.html
04-01-2021||India||Govt, farmers’ talks over agri laws underway, both sides hope for positive solution||The seventh round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the central leadership to end the impasse over agricultural laws, enacted in September last year, began at the Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi on Monday. Both the parties observed two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to the 50 protesting farmers who died during the agitation.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash along with government officials are in a meeting with farmers represented by a team of 41 leaders. Before the meet, Tomar said. “I am hopeful that we will find a positive solution today. We will discuss all issues in the meeting.” Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Speaking to news agency ANI, a farm union leader too said, “We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year.” Hannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”During the sixth round of negotiations, some common ground was reached on concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. The Centre had agreed to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedAhead of the meeting Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders to demand a complete rollback of three contentious agri laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020— for over a month. They have threatened to carry out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26 if the their demands are not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-farmers-observe-2-min-silence-for-50-peasants-who-died-during-agitation/story-vFv5bZw3dxcZHK7xD2KRSL.html
