05-01-2021||India||Farmers postpone tractor march by a day to January 7||Instead of January 6, when the protesting farmers initially decided to conduct their tractor march, farmers on Tuesday announced that the tractor march would take place on January 7. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said farmers protesting the new farm laws will take out a tractor march on January 7 at four borders of Delhi, in what would be a glimpse of what has been planned for Republic Day if the new laws are not rolled back. “We have decided that on January 7, we will take out a tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26,” said Yadav. On Monday, the seventh round of talks between farmer leaders and the government failed to resolve the deadlock as the Centre continued to rule out the possibility of repealing the three new farm laws, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. Both sides had agreed to continue with talks on January 8.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters will not be going home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapsi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, had said on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26. Farmers have time and again promised to intensify their protests if their demands are not met. “The government is saying 50% of the demands have been met. For us, 85% of the demands are left.The agitation will become more intense now,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation. Yadav too echoed similar sentiments of intensifying protests as the next round of talks neared. “From tomorrow, for 2 weeks, ‘Desh Jagran Abhiyan’ will be started and protests will be deepened throughout the country,” Yadav was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-postpone-tractor-march-by-a-day-to-january-7/story-pwuVNeI7qzAtQnxZJwf1WN.html
05-01-2021||India||High court issues notices to Centre, Punjab over damage to Reliance Jio’s infrastructure amid farmers’ protest||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notices to Punjab and the Centre in response to Reliance Jio’s plea seeking action against those involved in damaging its infrastructure and other properties in the state amid the agitation against the three farm laws enacted in September.The petition said the company’s 1,500 telecom towers have been vandalised, crippling its mobile network in Punjab, where it has 14 million subscribers. It has blamed the company’s business rivals of taking advantage of the ongoing farmers’ protests.Farm unions have launched the agitation to force the Centre to revoke the three laws, which provide for creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces. The laws allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILReliance Jio has maintained in its petition that its parent company, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), retail arms, and affiliates, have “no interest” and do not “intend in future to do corporate or contract farming”. It emphasised that the conglomerate and its retail arms have not purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly for farming.It underlined the conglomerate has the greatest regard for the farmers hard work and added it has never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain “unfair advantage” over farmers or their produce.The petition was filed on Monday seeking direction to the state and the Centre to protect the firm’s infrastructure and ensure the safety of its employees.The firm’s lawyer, Ashish Chopra, said that the high court has sought response from Punjab and the Centre by February 8.The plea said subscribers were compelled to port to other networks and the vandalism has also endangered lives of the company’s employees. The company has also sought the appointment of competent authority to assess the damages to be recovered from the attackers as per a Supreme Court ruling.“The destruction has been done in a well-orchestrated manner, which is the result of a sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests,” said the plea.Protesters in Punjab have targeted the company amid allegations that the laws are meant to benefit certain corporate houses at the cost of farmers. Farmers say the laws will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the procurement system, whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-issues-notices-to-centre-punjab-over-damage-to-reliance-jio-s-infrastructure-amid-farmer-protests/story-GxTpbRvXdhRNzwmOxz0m8I.html
05-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Singhu-Tikri border remain closed due to protests, rain adds to traffic woes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain blocked, rain worsens traffic woesThe routes around Delhi’s borders remained restricted on Tuesday as farmers continued to protest against the three new farm laws. Read MoreFarmers continue protests a day after talks with Centre remain inconclusiveThousands of farmers, who are have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, on Tuesday continued their agitation on Tuesday as they remained firm on their demands for the repeal of the three farm laws and legal backing for minimum support price (MSP). Read MoreSupreme Court clears redevelopment plan for Central Vista projectThe Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the road for the Central Vista project and allowed the government to go ahead with its construction in a near-unanimous decision. Read More20 more people in India test positive for new UK Covid-19 strain; total reaches 58With 20 more people testing positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country has reached 58. Read MoreAudi A4 2021 launched in India at ₹42.34 lakhAudi has officially launched A4 2021 in India at a starting price of ₹42.34 lakh (ex-showroom). The updated A4 gets a number of significant changes and updates to help it take on its rivals with a whole lot of new vigour. Read MoreKL Rahul ruled out of ongoing Test series against Australia due to injuryTeam India have been dealt another blow on their tour of Australia as opening batsman KL Rahul has been ruled out of the ongoing Test series due to an injury. Read MoreKangana Ranaut opposes Shashi Tharoor, Kamal Haasan over pay for homemakers: ‘Don’t put a price tag on sex we have with our love’Actor Kangana Ranaut has opposed actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan’s idea of recognising housework done by homemakers as a salaried profession. Read More98-year-old woman’s advice strikes a chord with netizens. Seen it yet?Some say that wisdom is accumulated as one ages, which is why often grandparents make for the best advice-givers. Read More‘Govt digressing from real issues’: Robert Vadra grilled by IT departmentThe Income Tax department questioned Robert Vadra in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-singhu-tikri-border-remain-closed-due-to-protests-rain-adds-to-traffic-woes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-da46762ADltNI7CPs2OlxJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PIL||An open letter written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) against attempts being made to paint the protesting farmers as separatists has been converted into a public interest litigation and is expected to be heard by the Supreme Court in the coming days.The letter written by 35 students of Panjab University’s Centre for Human Rights and Duties on December 2 termed the course of action initiated by the government to address the farmers’ concerns as “insensitive” and sought intervention of the court to allow them to continue with their peaceful protest. The letter also attacked the media for trying to “polarise” the peaceful protest by associating farmers with separatists.Gurmohan Preet Singh, a postgraduate student of the university, who is among the 35 signatories to the letter, said, “On December 18, we received an intimation from the Supreme Court registry informing that our letter has been registered under the section of public interest litigation (PIL). We are hopeful that our letter will be listed in open court for hearing at the earliest.”Read more| Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8The intimation received from the registry said, “Your communication has been successfully registered as Diary no 67872/SCI/PIL(E) 2020.” Singh said he had not received any intimation yet with regard to the listing of the case.The letter aired a grievance over the manner in which water cannons, teargas shells and lathis were used against the protesting farmers. The 35 signatories, comprising human rights students, research scholars, and former students of the university demanded an enquiry into the illegitimate use of force by Haryana Police and withdrawal of all criminal cases registered against the protesting farmers by both Haryana Police and Delhi Police. In addition, the letter sought basic amenities to be provided to the protesters to ensure their safety.One of the prayers in the letter stated, “Take action to curb fake news and against media channels, engaged in misrepresentation, polarisation and sensationalisation of the whole issue.”The Supreme Court on December 17 considered the issue of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and proposed a solution be worked out by way of talks between the government and farmer unions by involving independent experts. The court maintained that it did not intend to curb the farmers’ right to protest peacefully but the same should not be at the cost of disruption of public order.The letter said, “When farmers decided to approach to the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the peaceful protesters (farmers) were thrashed and walloped that it seemed raising a voice for their Fundamental Rights as provided by the Supreme Law of the Nation is a dreadful crime (which it is not).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-will-take-up-an-open-letter-on-farmers-as-pil/story-wNJgjkgdnZbS8TiOJCH0JK.html
05-01-2021||India||Reliance moves HC against vandalism of telecom towers||The Punjab and Haryana high court will on Tuesday hear a petition by Reliance Jio for taking action against miscreants damaging its network infrastructure and other commercial properties in Punjab.Reliance Jio, in its petition, has maintained that its parent company, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), or any retail arm or affiliates have “no interest and does not intend in future to do corporate or contract farming” while alleging that business rivals with vested interests are taking advantage of the ongoing farmers’ protests.In its petition, the Mukesh Ambani-led RIL has also emphasised that the conglomerate and its retail arms have not purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly for the purpose of farming.Underscoring that Jio and RIL have greatest regard for the hard work of the farmers, the petition added that RIL affiliates have never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain “unfair advantage over” farmers or their produce.Read more| Farm talks fail again, Centre says no repealReliance Jio Infocomm filed this petition on Monday, and requested for an urgent direction to the government authorities in the state and at the Centre to protect its communication infrastructure as well as ensure safety of its employees.The firm’s counsel, Ashish Chopra said that the high court agreed to list their petition for a hearing on Tuesday.The petition has stated that 1,500 telecom towers operated by Reliance Jio were vandalised and rendered inoperative, crippling the mobile network in Punjab, where the telecom company has 14 million subscribers. While the subscribers are compelled to port to other networks, the plea said, the acts of vandalism have also endangered lives of thousands of its employees. The plea claims it has been has been targeted in Punjab, as those with “vested interests” are taking advantage of the farmers’ agitation against the recently enacted contentious agricultural laws.The petition demands that state be directed to take steps to prevent further damage to its infrastructure and take action against the miscreants and vested interests, who caused destruction.Read more| ‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealedJio also seeks appointment of a competent authority to assess the damages to be recovered from the miscreants in terms of a judgment by the Supreme Court, which laid down that rioters must be made to pay for destruction of public or private properties. “The destruction has been done in a well orchestrated manner, which is result of a sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests,” stated the plea, demanding that adequate security arrangements be made to stop vandalism of its infrastructure. Telecom infra owned by the company has been targeted in parts of Punjab by protesters who have alleged that the contentious new farm laws are meant to benefit certain corporate houses at the cost of ordinary farmers. The laws change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the procurement system, whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-moves-hc-against-vandalism-of-telecom-towers/story-MW8XQFBr6FUhhMzvhMkD2I.html
05-01-2021||India||Farm talks fail again, Centre says no repeal||The seventh round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders demanding scrapping of three contentious farm laws ended in a stalemate on Monday, as three Union ministers part of the negotiations said it was not possible to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations with higher authorities.Both sides, however, agreed to continue the talks on January 8. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, has hardened its stand, saying on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26.“We requested the unions to review the laws clause by clause but the unions were steadfast in their demand for a repeal. As such, we could not arrive at any decision but both sides agreed to meet again on January 8,” farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the meet.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereFarm union leaders said they were prepared to intensify their agitation and added that the government was not prepared to budge from its stand. “The government is saying 50% of the demands have been met. For us, 85% of the demands are left.The agitation will become more intense now,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation.The government ruled out a decision to repeal the three agricultural laws, asking farm union leaders to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation, a farm leader said, resulting in a standoff. It also wanted to discuss the demand of a law guaranteeing assured prices for 23 farm commodities, known as minimum support prices, or MSP. “The government in multiple ways wanted us to discuss the laws. We said we want a repeal. The ministers said they need to consult within the government for any possible repeal of the laws. There was no discussion on MSP,” said farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti. The government, represented by Union ministers Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash, told participating farm leaders that it will review any clause farmers have a problem with. “The government said it wanted to go clause by clause of the three farm laws. It said laws can’t be repealed. We told them that there is only one way, which is to repeal the laws and bring a law guaranteeing minimum support prices,” farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said.Unlike in the last round, the Union ministers did not share lunch brought by the farmers. The ministers, government officials and representatives of farmers observed two-minute silence for farmers who died during the ongoing protest.Since there was no headway in the first session of talks on Monday, the two sides took a lunch break. At the start of the post-lunch session, Tomar said he wanted to discuss the proposal on a law to ensure MSP. The farmers rejected the call for discussions on this demand.The sixth round of talks on December 30 made some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions, with the Centre agreeing to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.The two principal demands of the repeal of the three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of MSP were deferred till January 8. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws.They essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Tomar said he remains hopeful of a solution in the next meeting on January 8, but asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution to be reached. Farmer leaders, however, alleged that it was the government’s “ego problem” that was coming in the way of resolving the issues and they insisted they would not relent on their key demands for the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have hunkered down at various Delhi border points for over a month against the three laws.They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital.Yogendra Yadav, one of the leaders coordinating the protests, said the only way forward was to scale up the agitation. “After seven months of protests and seven rounds of talks, the government is still asking if farmers really wanted a repeal of the laws? Do you think the government is any serious?” he asked. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) criticised the Haryana government for “severe repression” of protesting farmers and warned of escalation of the anger among the people and intensification of the movement if it does not stop. “Yesterday farmers who had advanced towards Delhi from Shahjahanpur in a peaceful manner were physically obstructed and later tear-gassed in Rewari along with spray of chilly,” Avik Saha, secretary of AIKSCC, said.Farm leaders said they will implement their new protest agenda, which includes picketing of Raj Bhawans, toll plazas and boycott of goods and services of the Reliance and Adani groups. “It seemed the government today was trying to assess if farmers would agree to anything other than repeal,” Kuruganti added. The AIKSCC, in a statement, said it criticised senior minister Nitin Gadkari for “speaking against the demands of farmers on the eve of talks, leaving little chance of success. Gadkari said yesterday that the core problem is surplus food and MSP higher than open markets”.RS Mani, retired economist of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said: “It appears that the government has prepared a proposal on assured prices since it was keen to discuss it. There are options like deficiency price payments, etc. However, the solution to a repeal of the laws requires a political decision.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-won-t-be-repealed-govt-tells-farmer-leaders-in-seventh-round-of-talks/story-xCnGxcjYq6BgTNxfSgIZHM.html
05-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: ‘Hoping we will come to conlusion in next round of talks,’ says agri minister after meeting with farmers||In their seventh attempt to end the logjam over the three farm laws, ministers representing the central government and 40 farm union leaders held talks in Delhi on Monday. Two key demands of the farmers are expected to be on the table for consideration by the government.Upping the ante, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions, has said that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital on their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26. The Republic Day – an event of global importance – is scheduled to be attended by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Meanwhile, a 70-year-old farmer, who was part of the agitation against the farm laws at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, allegedly died by suicide in a portable toilet near the protest site on Saturday. Forty-seven people have died so far at various protest sites since the farmers began their agitation against three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait has said.Despite rains and the ongoing cold wave across North India, farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws stood strong at the borders of the national capital and continued their protest for the last 39 days.Why are the farmers protesting?In one of the largest strikes in decades witnessed by India, the farmers are demanding that the Centre revokes the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here are the latest updates:8:30pm: Assembly session to be convened to pass resolution against farm laws: Bengal CM West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said arrangements would soon be made to convene an assembly session to pass a resolution against the contentious legislations.7:01pm: We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn: Farmers’ union“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kannon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union said after the meeting.6:29 pm: Hope we will reach conclusion in next round of talks: Tomar“Looking at today’s discussion, I hope that we will have a meaningful discussion during our next meeting and we will come to a conclusion,” said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.6:00 pm: Talks with farmers end; no breakthroughThe seventh round of talks ended without any conclusion. Next meeting is scheduled for January 8.4: 44 pm: Govt rules out rollback of farm laws, no breakthrough in 7th round of talks with farmersThe government remained firm on their stand on farm laws as it refused to take back contentious farm laws. Instead, the union minister asked the union leaders to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation.3:58: SC accepts petition against Haryana police for using water cannons on farmersThe Supreme Court accepted a letter petition sent to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde by a group of students from Punjab seeking an inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons, tear gases shells on farmers to stop them from proceeding to Delhi. The students wrote an open letter to the CJI and urged that Haryana and Delhi police withdraw all the cases against farmers which were registered under alleged political vendetta.3:01 pm: Meeting begins with two minute silence for protesters who died during agitationUnion ministers and farmers observed a two minute silence to mark their tributes to the 50 farmers who died during the demonstration against the contentious farm laws.2:39 pm:Seventh round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ representatives beginsThree union ministers including Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash arrived at Vigyan Bhawan for the talks. Farmers are being represented by a team of 41 union leaders. Delhi: Seventh round of meeting between Central Government & farmers' representatives begins at Vigyan Bhawan.#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/5eO8bGjwzQ2:15 pm: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweets in favour of farmers ठंड और बारिश के बीच सड़कों पर डटे हमारे किसानों के हौंसले को सलाम। मेरी केंद्र सरकार से अपील है कि आज की बैठक में किसानों की सारी मांगें मानते हुए तीनों काले कानून वापस लिए जाएं।12:49 pm: Farm leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan to meet ministers, talks begin shortlyDelhi: A delegation of farmer leaders arrive at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with Union Government on the three Farm Laws"We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year," says a farmer leader pic.twitter.com/oFG4ERdzFO11:58 am: Hope govt takes human approach, says farm union leaderHannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha ahead of today’s talks with govt said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”11.26 am: Farmers unions reiterate demand for repeal of farm lawsLeaders of farmers unions on Monday reiterated that nothing less than the repeal of Central farm laws will be acceptable to them. Ahead of the eighth-round of talks with the Central government over the issue, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Punjab Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee’s Joint Secretary Sukhwinder S Sabra also threatened to hold a tractor march if the demands of the unions weren’t met.10:55 am: Reliance Jio to move Punjab and Haryana HCReliance Industries Limited (RIL), through its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, in a petition mentioned to be filed in Punjab and Haryana High Court today, has sought urgent intervention of Government authorities to bring a complete stop to illegal acts of vandalism by miscreants, said RIL.These acts of violence have endangered the lives of thousands of its employees and caused damage and disruption to the vital communications infrastructure, sales and service outlets run by its subsidiaries in the two states, RIL said in a media statement. 10:45 am: Govt likely to discuss farm laws ‘clause by clause’ with farmers’ yet againWith the eighth-round of meeting between farmers’ unions and the Central government scheduled to take place today, the ‘clause by clause’ discussion on three farm laws is expected to take place between the two if farmers remain adamant on their demand to repeal the laws.Sources in the government said that with two demands of farmers’ unions -- Repeal of the three farm laws and legalisation of Minimum Support Price (MSP) -- left unresolved, the Centre is likely to discuss farm laws clause by clause as it did initially before the MSP issue. The exercise was done by the government earlier to understand the objections of farmers against the laws. 10:11am: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedThe Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida continue to remain partially blocked on Monday with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi. At both the borders, traffic going towards Delhi was diverted, with farmers blocking one carriageway as their agitation against three new farm bills continue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-govt-farm-union-leaders-to-meet-today-borders-remain-affected/story-yIWEJqmxpyYg4o0olUreOO.html
05-01-2021||India||Farmers continue protests a day after talks with Centre remain inconclusive||Thousands of farmers, who are have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, on Tuesday continued their agitation on Tuesday as they remained firm on their demands for the repeal of the three farm laws and legal backing for minimum support price (MSP). The seventh round of talks held on Monday to resolve the deadlock over the farm laws remained inconclusive. The farmers’ unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the new farm laws, which they say are pro-corporate, even as the government wanted to discuss only “problematic” clauses or other alternatives. Both the sides will meet again on January 8.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that he is “hopeful” that a conclusion will be found in the next round of talks. “We wanted farmer unions to discuss three laws clause-wise. We could not reach any solution as farmer unions remained adamant on the repeal of the laws,” the minister told reporters after the meeting.Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILThe protesting farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been at the border points of the national capital since November 26, braving the bone-chilling cold weather in the region. Sporadic rains have also lashed the national capital in the last couple of days.Delhi Traffic Police have been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city. On Tuesday, Delhi Traffic Police said in a series of tweets that the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are closed for traffic movement. “Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they said.“The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” it added. Traffic AlertAvailable Open Borders to Haryana are following- Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement. “Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” they said in another tweet.Also read | TMC to bring resolution against farm bills in West Bengal assemblyPeople travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, they added.Farmers fear the government will stop buying grain at minimum guaranteed prices under the laws and that corporations will then push prices down. The government said it is willing to pledge that guaranteed prices will continue. They also say the three farm laws will lead to the cartelisation and commercialisation of agriculture and make farmers vulnerable to corporate greed. The farmers have also threatened to hold a rally on January 26 on Republic Day if their demands are not met.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-brave-another-cold-day-rains-after-talks-fail/story-FMv8q21viq97ug21emT7BL.html
05-01-2021||India||Farm talks fail again, Centre says no repeal||The seventh round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders demanding scrapping of three contentious farm laws ended in a stalemate on Monday, as three Union ministers part of the negotiations said it was not possible to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations with higher authorities.Both sides, however, agreed to continue the talks on January 8. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, has hardened its stand, saying on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26.“We requested the unions to review the laws clause by clause but the unions were steadfast in their demand for a repeal. As such, we could not arrive at any decision but both sides agreed to meet again on January 8,” farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the meet.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereFarm union leaders said they were prepared to intensify their agitation and added that the government was not prepared to budge from its stand. “The government is saying 50% of the demands have been met. For us, 85% of the demands are left.The agitation will become more intense now,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation.The government ruled out a decision to repeal the three agricultural laws, asking farm union leaders to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation, a farm leader said, resulting in a standoff. It also wanted to discuss the demand of a law guaranteeing assured prices for 23 farm commodities, known as minimum support prices, or MSP. “The government in multiple ways wanted us to discuss the laws. We said we want a repeal. The ministers said they need to consult within the government for any possible repeal of the laws. There was no discussion on MSP,” said farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti. The government, represented by Union ministers Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash, told participating farm leaders that it will review any clause farmers have a problem with. “The government said it wanted to go clause by clause of the three farm laws. It said laws can’t be repealed. We told them that there is only one way, which is to repeal the laws and bring a law guaranteeing minimum support prices,” farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said.Unlike in the last round, the Union ministers did not share lunch brought by the farmers. The ministers, government officials and representatives of farmers observed two-minute silence for farmers who died during the ongoing protest.Since there was no headway in the first session of talks on Monday, the two sides took a lunch break. At the start of the post-lunch session, Tomar said he wanted to discuss the proposal on a law to ensure MSP. The farmers rejected the call for discussions on this demand.The sixth round of talks on December 30 made some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions, with the Centre agreeing to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.The two principal demands of the repeal of the three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of MSP were deferred till January 8. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws.They essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Tomar said he remains hopeful of a solution in the next meeting on January 8, but asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution to be reached. Farmer leaders, however, alleged that it was the government’s “ego problem” that was coming in the way of resolving the issues and they insisted they would not relent on their key demands for the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have hunkered down at various Delhi border points for over a month against the three laws.They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital.Yogendra Yadav, one of the leaders coordinating the protests, said the only way forward was to scale up the agitation. “After seven months of protests and seven rounds of talks, the government is still asking if farmers really wanted a repeal of the laws? Do you think the government is any serious?” he asked. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) criticised the Haryana government for “severe repression” of protesting farmers and warned of escalation of the anger among the people and intensification of the movement if it does not stop. “Yesterday farmers who had advanced towards Delhi from Shahjahanpur in a peaceful manner were physically obstructed and later tear-gassed in Rewari along with spray of chilly,” Avik Saha, secretary of AIKSCC, said.Farm leaders said they will implement their new protest agenda, which includes picketing of Raj Bhawans, toll plazas and boycott of goods and services of the Reliance and Adani groups. “It seemed the government today was trying to assess if farmers would agree to anything other than repeal,” Kuruganti added. The AIKSCC, in a statement, said it criticised senior minister Nitin Gadkari for “speaking against the demands of farmers on the eve of talks, leaving little chance of success. Gadkari said yesterday that the core problem is surplus food and MSP higher than open markets”.RS Mani, retired economist of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said: “It appears that the government has prepared a proposal on assured prices since it was keen to discuss it. There are options like deficiency price payments, etc. However, the solution to a repeal of the laws requires a political decision.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-won-t-be-repealed-govt-tells-farmer-leaders-in-seventh-round-of-talks/story-xCnGxcjYq6BgTNxfSgIZHM.html
