06-01-2021||India||Haryana women training to drive tractor as farmers prepare for R-Day protest march||Several rural women in Haryana’s Jind district are receiving training to drive tractors for taking part in a ‘tractor parade’ in the national capital on January 26 against the three new farm laws. The farmers protesting against the legislations had announced on January 2 that if their demands remained unmet they would take out a ‘tractor parade’ towards Delhi On January 26, when the country would be celebrating its Republic Day.Women hailing from three villages -- Safa Kheri, Khatkar, Pallwan -- in Jind are learning to steer the tractor wheel.“Around 200 women are being imparted training to drive tractors,” Sikim Nain Sheokant, the president of Jind-based Kisan Ekta Mahila Manch said over the phone.She said though some of the women can drive tractors in the fields for farm operations, they do not have experience of road driving.“We want women to drive tractors on highway on January 26 without any help,” she said.Sheokant said several villagers were also helping them out by offering their tractors and providing them required training.Women are undergoing training at a toll plaza on Jind-Patiala National Highway for handling tractor-trolleys on road. The protesting farmers have declared toll plazas “free”.“We are getting the training for driving a tractor for participating in the tractor parade,” said a woman who has been receiving the lesson.They are also trying to provide training in villages, said Sheokant. She feels the new farm laws are not in the interest of the farming community.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur for more than a month, mainly demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-women-training-to-drive-tractor-as-farmers-prepare-for-r-day-protest-march/story-SbhRATKuCbR9BacAhzgaiP.html
06-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas against farm laws, issues related to farmers protest on January 11||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice on a petition challenging the introduction of Entry 33 in Concurrent List through which the Centre introduced three contentious farm laws in September.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told Attorney General KK Venugopa,l appearing for the Centre, that the petition filed by advocate ML Sharma has challenged the introduction of Entry 33 under Seventh Schedule by way of Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954.The court fixed the matter for hearing next on Monday. The court directed all other petitions challenging the validity of the three farm laws introduced by Centre to be also listed on Monday.Also Read: Supreme Court refuses to stay ‘love jihad’ laws in UP, Uttarakhand; issues noticeThe AG informed the court that talks with farmers are on and there are chances of reaching an agreement.“There are chances of the parties coming to an agreement .That chance will be closed if we file an affidavit,” AG Venugopal said. The bench said, “We want to encourage talks. We will keep the matters on Monday and if AG tells us that talks are on, we will adjourn the matter.” The bench observed that as of now there was no improvement in the situation at all. SG Tushar Mehta informed the court, “Our response is ready but since we are in a healthy discussion (with farmer unions) we have not filed it yet.” Sharma, who appeared in person to argue for the PIL, said that during the passing of the 1954 Constitutional amendment introducing Entry 33, only 8-9 states out of 19 existing states had ratified. The farmer unions have been holding protests over the three farm laws introduced by Centre last year. The laws in question, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, have also been opposed by some states, which have passed laws to blunt the implementation of the above enacted laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-against-farm-laws-issues-related-to-farmers-protest-on-january-11/story-bRmxuIXP4fMe6knMUKOgjL.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain partly closed||The National Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at several points on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open. For those coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected. Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILThe police have continued checking these border points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to sneak in, but it has only slowed down the traffic there, not choked or blocked it entirely. For borders between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli, and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-borders-with-haryana-up-remain-partly-closed/story-zdufVvqFLlTAopHI8PziKI.html
06-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu border||Farmers at Singhu border launched a massive exercise on Tuesday to cover all the tents with waterproof plastic sheets following rains in the city. Large bamboo sticks and iron pipes were brought to the border with hundreds of waterproof tarpaulin sheets to cover the tents. Farmers said a mega tent is also being set up at the centre stage from where the leaders address the protesters every day.As light rains were witnessed in parts of the national capital on Monday and Tuesday, many tents at Singhu border where farmers have been staying since November 26 last year collapsed, while some started leaking. Many of these tents had to be dismantled and re-erected.Also Read: Farmers postpone tractor march by a day to January 7On Tuesday, labourers were climbing atop the tents tying huge tarpaulin sheets around them by erecting bamboo sticks and iron pipes around them to make the tents withstand strong winds and shower. The labourers had been brought in by the gurudwara committees from various parts of Delhi. The tarpaulin sheets, commonly known as tirpaal, were either donated by people or bought by these committees.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), said all material required for waterproofing tents were brought at the border on Monday, as soon as the weather changed.“The tents have been covered with plastic sheets. These provide insulation as well as water slides down without entering the tents. Separate waterproof tents have also been set up for women. In the evening, we also brought in more mattresses and blankets as it is getting colder,” Sirsa said.Also Read: Understanding the rationale of farm protestsHarinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Ludhiana, said they also announced from the central stage on Tuesday that anyone who needs a tarpaulin can get it. “We have asked for more waterproofing material. It is also expected that the weather will improve by Wednesday afternoon,” he said.‘Farmers adamant’: Govt fails to pacify protestorsOn the farmers’ next move, Lakhowal said on January 7, they will conduct a rehearsal rally in which tractors will move from Singhu to Tikri and from Tikri to Singhu, on the Haryana side and similarly between Ghazipur border and Palwal. “This is just a rehearsal for our massive rally planned for Republic Day when hundreds of tractors will participate in a national rally,” Lakhowal said.Also Read: Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain blocked, rain worsens traffic woesAs it rained again on Tuesday, buckets, tubs or utensils had been placed in most tents which had started leaking. The rainwater was later used for washing utensils and for laundry.Sardar Singh, 53, a farmer from Ropar, said the roof of their tent had loosened as rain water got accumulated over it. “Before it fell, we had to remove it and now the cloth is being replaced with plastic sheet. We reassembled our tent where as many as 100 people sleep every night. The tarpaulin will not only stop rain but will also keep us warm. They are also fire-resistant,” he said.Those sleeping in tractor trolleys also covered both ends of the trolley with plastic sheets. They said it worked best to stop strong winds from blowing away the bedsheets that they had been using so far to cover the trolleys in order to keep themselves warm during the nights.Farmers had also used the plastic sheets to cover piles of wood that they to cook meals at langars. “Our woods are all wet. We had ration covered in time but the woods lie in the open and they are wet now. Tarpaulin are being used to cover the ration and places of langars are also being converted into covered set ups so that whether it is rain or cold wave, our langars do not stop,” said another farmer, Satnam Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-make-their-protest-waterproof-at-singhu-border/story-YIsGlLp2tspgfi4VLehOuM.html
06-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At hearing on plea against farm laws, SC says ‘we encourage consultation’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court hears petition against farm laws, says encourages consultationThe Supreme Court on Wednesday heard a petition challenging the three farm laws passed by Parliament, which have triggered protests near Delhi and in other parts of the country. Read moreJustice Goswami takes over as new chief justice of Andhra PradeshJustice Arup Kumar Goswami was sworn in as the new chief justice of Andhra Pradesh high court at a brief ceremony in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan administered the oath of office to justice Goswami at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in the city. Read morePM Modi to launch New Rewari-New Madar section, world’s first double-stack container train tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) spanning 306 kilometers on Thursday via video conferencing. The prime minister will also flag off double stack long haul 1.5 kilometers long container train from New Ateli to New Kishangarh in the same event. Read moreUS, India have never been closer, says Mike PompeoDescribing external affairs minister S Jaishankar as “my friend” and “great diplomat”, US secretary of state Michael Pompeo said on Tuesday the United States and India have “never been closer” . Read more‘Lot of unnamed sources coming out from India’s camp’: ‘Uncertain’ Tim Paine talks about ‘power’ of India in world cricketThe recent reports of India contemplating not to travel to Brisbane for the fourth Test if strict quarantine rules are forced on them have not ‘frustrated’ him but have given birth to a degree of ‘uncertainty’ regarding the Test series, believes Australia captain Tim Paine. Read moreNew Fortuner and Fortuner Legender launched in India. Price and all details hereToyota Kirloskar Motor on Wednesday introduced the much-anticipated Fortuner facelift in the Indian market at a starting price of ₹29.98 lakh (ex-showroom). While the Fortuner SUV already commands a respectable position in the segment, the yearly update has raised the game a notch higher with all the updates the Ford Endeavour rival has received. Read moreAli Abbas Zafar reveals how he pursued wife Alicia for two years before she said yes, got married at his Dehradun homeFilmmaker Ali Abbas Zafar surprised all when he got married to Alicia earlier this week. He shared the news via social media posts. In a new interview, he has now revealed how he pursued Alicia, who is from France, for two years before she agreed. He added how his marriage was always intended to be a low-key affair, a far cry from his larger-than-life films. Read moreAnanya Panday’s vacay fashion is worth emulatingActor Ananya Panday might be back from her Maldives vacation but her super trendy outfits created quite a buzz on social media. The 22-year-old made sure to give a glimpse of all her looks she sported during the beach trip. Nailing all the current trend, she looked every inch the stunner in all her looks. We round off her five holiday picks and tell you what we liked the most about each. Read moreWatch: Covid vaccine: In Gujarat, European firm unveils tech to store, transport dosesAs India approves vaccines, storage & transportation tech unveiled. Luxembourg-based B. Medical Systems launched an equipment in Ahmedabad. India was in talks with the foreign firm to set up vaccine cold chain. PM Modi had spoken to Luxembourg Prime Minister about vaccine logistics challenges. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-hearing-on-plea-against-farm-laws-sc-says-we-encourage-consultation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-emiEhvVb01bBA6gEPi1WKM.html
06-01-2021||India||‘We encourage consultation’: Supreme Court while hearing petition against farm laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday heard a petition challenging the three farm laws passed by Parliament, which have triggered protests near Delhi and in other parts of the country.The petition has been filed by a lawyer.The bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that it understands the situation of the farmers who are protesting at Delhi border braving harsh weather conditions. The Centre told the court that “healthy discussions” are going on with farmers after which the court adjourned the matter for further hearing on January 11.Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future and filing of response by the Centre on the pleas challenging the new farm laws might foreclose the negotiations between the farmers and government.“We encourage consultation. We can adjourn the matters on Monday (January 11) if you submit the same due to the ongoing consultation process,” the bench said.The farmers have been protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghaziabad border points near the national capital demanding the repeal of the laws passed in September last year. Several rounds of talks have taken place between the government and the farmers but no resolution has been found.In the last round on January 4, the talks were inconclusive as the farmers remained adamant with their demand that the laws be scrapped. The government has ruled this out, and has asked the farmer leaders to suggest changes to the laws which it said can be discussed.The three laws against which farmers have been protesting are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-encourage-consultation-supreme-court-while-hearing-petition-against-farm-laws/story-7TDZV8UzLnZIO9L6OMwbnI.html
06-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights| Farmers to take out tractor march on Jan 7 at 4 Delhi borders||The ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September entered day 41 on Tuesday and will continue for the time being as the seventh round of talks between the government and the farm union leaders failed to resolve the deadlock between the two sides. Monday’s talks saw both sides stick to their stand, with the government once again reiterating the laws won’t be repealed and insisting on a clause-by-clause discussion, while the farm unions stressed they want nothing short of a rollback. The unions also demanded a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The eighth round of talks will take place at 2 pm on January 8.Monday’s developments came despite there being hopes in some quarters of a resolution as, in the seventh round of talks on January 4, the two sides had arrived at a consensus on two out of four demands raised by the farmers. In the seventh round of talks, the central ministers representing the government and the farm unions leaders had also, for the very first time, taken meal together. Also on Monday, Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), whose Jio Infocomm mobile towers have been allegedly targeted by a section of farmers in Punjab, moved Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking “immediate government intervention” to stop the vandalism of its properties.It also accused “vested interests” and “business rivals” of instigating the farmers and further clarified it had never done “contract” or “corporate” farming and has no plans to enter the business.Follow major highlights from day 41 of the anti-farm law protests here:All will resolve soon, say BJP leaders from Punjab after meeting PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi is in the know of all developments related to the farmers’ protest against the new agri laws and the issue will get resolved soon, BJP leaders from Punjab asserted on Tuesday after meeting the PM, reported PTI.Farmers to celebrate ‘Azad Kisan Diwas’ on Netaji’s birth anniversaryKrantikari Kisan Union President Darshan Pal said that ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’ will be celebrated on January 23, on the occasion of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary. Farmers said they would boycott Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies in National Democratic Alliance (NDA), reports ANI.Farmers to take out tractor march on Jan 7 at 4 Delhi borders‘Desh Jagran Abhiyan’ for two weeks to start from tomorrow with protests intensifying throught the country, said Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav. “We have decided that on January 7, we will take out tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26,” he added, reported ANI. BJP leaders from Punjab meets PM Modi amid farmers stirBJP leaders from Punjab on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here amid protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri laws for nearly six weeks, reports PTI.Farmers defer tractor parade to Jan 7, says union leadersProtesting farmers has deferred their proposed Jan 6 tractor march to Jan 7, said farmers union leaders, reports PTI.Tomar-led panel to meet on Jan 11 to discuss agri reformsThe agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called for an inter-session consultative committee meeting on January 11 to discuss agriculture’s role and contribution to the Atma Nirbhar Bharat mission and how the new reforms will aid the process, reports ANI.Rajasthan CM asks Centre to accept farmers’ demand, not to make prestige issueRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the central government should regularly talk to farmers, accept their demands of repealing the new farm laws and not make it a prestige issue, reports ANI.‘Kisan tractor parade’ planned for January 26On January 1, the farm union leaders had also announced a ‘Kisan tractor parade’ on the occasion of Republic Day on January 26, if their demands to repeal the farm laws are not repealed.Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blockedThe Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida respectively remain partially blocked with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi.Also Read | Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blocked, rain worsens traffic woesProtesters likely to hold “tractor march” tomorrowFarmers agitating against the farm laws are likely to hold a “tractor march” on Wednesday in protest against the laws. At a press conference on January 1, the farm union leaders had announced that a “tractor march” would be held on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway if the seventh round of talks on January 7, too, remain inconclusive.Continuous rain affects stir at Singhu borderProtests at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border affected due to continuous rain. Protesters at Singhu border (Delhi- Haryana) affected due to continuous rainfall#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/lufaPTNNuiPanjab University students write to CJI on stir35 Panjab University students have written an open letter on the farmers’ stir to the chief justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, against attempts being made to paint the protesting farmers as “separatists.” The plea has been converted into a public interest litigation (PIL) and is expected to be heard by the Supreme Court in the coming days.Also Read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PIL7th round of talks fail to resolve impasse, next round on January 8The seventh round of talks between the government and farm union leaders on Monday failed to resolve the deadlock. The eighth round will take place at 2pm on January 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-5-2020/story-1gznUjMYVYlT9tY3kWqocI.html
