07-01-2021||India||PM should talk directly with protesting farmers: Harsimrat Badal||A day before the government’s eighth round of talks with protesting farm unions, SAD leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of the entire farming community and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to agitating farmers. Expressing her anguish over the pain of farmers, Badal, leader of the ruling BJP’s erstwhile ally, said, “It is strange that farmers are spending nights in open during the chilling winters and even then their demands are falling on deaf ears.” In an interview to PTI, Badal who resigned from Union Cabinet in September last year when the three farm bills were being passed in Lok Sabha, said what farmers have gone through in last six-seven weeks, is the same what she went through when she was a Union Minister. “...To avoid the situation which has arisen now and the protest, I kept pleading for months, whether it was in cabinet meetings or in direct meetings with top leaders of the central government that please listen to farmers before bringing these three bills as they are ‘annadaatas’ of the country, otherwise it would lead to agitations and protests. But my all pleas fell on to deaf ears,” she said. Asking who will be held responsible for deaths of farmers during the protest, Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of farmers across the country. “Farmers are dying at the doorstep of the central government while protesting for their demands. Who will be responsible for deaths of ‘annadaatas’ of the country?” Badal said. Talking about the ongoing meetings between protesting farmers and Centre, Badal said after seven rounds of meetings nothing concrete has come out. “After several rounds of meetings if ministers are unable to resolve the farmers’ issues then Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to protesting farmers,” Badal said. She also attacked the Congress-led Punjab government and state chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and said he has failed to fulfill his responsibility as guardian of the state and its people. “Both the central and state governments are equal partners in this crime against farmers. While farmers were sitting on dharna, the Chief Minister of Punjab was having fun in his farmhouse. Captain Amarinder Singh has miserably failed to fulfil his responsibilities as chief minister of Punjab and as guardian of its people,” Badal said. Harsimrat Kaur Badal was Union Food Processing Minister in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre and resigned when the bills were taken up for passage in Lok Sabha. Her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced her resignation in the lower house while participating in the debate on the three farm bills.Days later, SAD also moved out of the ruling NDA breaking its decades-old alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-should-talk-directly-with-protesting-farmers-harsimrat-badal/story-4GqRRadg4zbKIeMzYHVPHN.html
07-01-2021||India||SC asks Centre: What steps have you taken to prevent Covid spread at farmers’ protest site||The Supreme Court on Thursday cited a gathering at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi in March that was blamed for a jump in Covid-19 infections and asked the Centre what guidelines were in place to prevent a similar situation at the farmer protest sites. It issued a notice seeking the Centre’s reply within two weeks.“This same problem is going to arise during the farmer protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things,” a three-judge bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. “Have you learnt from your experience in handling this [Jamaat] event? Have you found out how it happened?”Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the bench that the investigation into the Jamaat gathering was still on. He added Covid-19 guidelines with regard to large gatherings were in place and sought two weeks to file a reply.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirtsFarmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalize the sector. They say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The bench was hearing public interest litigation by Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita for a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the Jamaat gathering. The petition underlined the need for guidelines to prevent such events from creating harm to public health at the time of the pandemic.Pandita’s lawyer, OP Parihar, cited the Jamaat gathering and added the group’s chief Maulana Saad has not been arrested yet.The bench said it is not interested in one person. “We are interested in ensuring Covid guidelines are prepared and implemented.”A Delhi court last month acquitted 36 foreign nationals accused of violating Covid-19 protocol by attending the Jamaat event, saying the prosecution had failed to prove that the charges against them. In August, the Bombay high court struck down cases against 29 foreigners and five Indians facing similar charges. “A political government tries to find a scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity, and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats,” the court had said. “The material of the present matter shows that the propaganda against the so-called religious activity was unwarranted.”The Jamaat hit the headlines in March when authorities blamed the gathering at its headquarters in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area for the jump in Covid-19 infections. The headquarters was sealed and thousands of attendees, including foreigners from countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, and the US, were quarantined. Police initially filed a case against Saad for violating a ban on big gatherings. He was later booked for culpable homicide, which carries a maximum punishment of 10-year imprisonment.The Jamaat, which has followers in over 80 countries, maintained many visitors at its headquarters were stranded after the government declared a lockdown to check the pandemic spread. The Centre blacklisted around 1,500 foreign Tablighi members for violating their visa norms and multiple cases were registered against them across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-steps-have-been-taken-to-prevent-covid-spread-at-farmers-protest-site-sc-to-centre/story-qPIaQ8n9GnMTFJSjPZ6ZYI.html
07-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirts||Traffic is likely to be disrupted on the outskirts of Delhi on the 43rd day of farmers’ agitation as the protesters plan to carry out a tractor march on Thursday, converging on the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around the national Capital. This is likely to affect commuters on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the National Highway-9.The tractor march comes a day ahead of another round of talks with the government over farmers’ demand for repeal of the three farm laws passed by Centre in September. Last week, agitating farmers had announced that Thursday’s tractor march would be a ‘rehearsal’ of their march on Rajpath on January 26, Republic Day.Shalini Singh, joint commissioner of police (western range), said that since the march is not scheduled to enter Delhi, the police arrangement would remain as before but traffic on the outskirts is likely to be affected.Also read | Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu borderPolice in Gautam Buddh Nagar said they will enforce diversions on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal or Eastern Peripheral Expressway. “In view of this, vehicles will not be allowed to get on the eastern peripheral expressway from Beel Akbarpur and Sirsa cut towards Palwal from 12pm to 3pm. Similarly, vehicles won’t be allowed on the expressway from Sirsa cut and Beel Akbarpur towards Sonipat from 2pm to 5pm and will be diverted,” police said in a statement.National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials also said the tractor march will affect traffic on both eastern and western peripheral expressways. “Tractors are not allowed on eastern periphery expressway and there will be traffic disruption if they carry out a march. We will speak to the district officials about the issue,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.Meanwhile, Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continue to remain closed at several points on Thursday due to the ongoing agitation. The Capital’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open.For those coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.For borders between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli, and Mangesh continue to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tractor-rally-today-likely-to-disrupt-traffic-on-delhi-outskirts/story-cUCeZQf5xxkggPzII27nNN.html
07-01-2021||India||Farmers protest highlights: Mega waterproof tent installed at Singhu border as stir continues amid rain||Thousands of farmers protesting near Delhi against the Centre’s three farm laws have decided to postpone their tractor march by a day as sporadic rain hampered their plans to stage a protest. The tractor march, now scheduled to be held on January 7, is a glimpse of how farmers are planning to intensify their protest after the government on January 4 refused to repeal the laws.“We will take out tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26. As you know that the government has held seven formal rounds of talks with the farmers on January 4,” Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav, who has joined the protests, said.“Seven months have passed when the ordinance was brought and later made into law. We are demanding the repeal of these laws. The only option left is to intensify our protest,” he added. Why are the farmers protesting?Through one of the largest strikes in decades witnessed by India, the farmers are demanding the repeal of the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws.Here are the highlights:Mega waterproof tent installed at Singhu border as stir continues amid rainAmid the rainfall reported in the national capital and neighbouring regions, protesters installed a mega tent at centre stage where their leaders address protesters every day. The 60 feet x 280 feet dimension waterproof tent covers the sitting area in front of the main stage. Discussions with farmers opportunity to explain them benefits of laws: GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday that he considers the ongoing discussions with farmers as an opportunity to explain them the benefits of the new farm laws against which they have been protesting. “For example, when I go along with Agriculture Minister Tomar for discussions with farmer unions, should I see that as a problem for myself or as an opportunity that I am getting,” he said.Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders take out tractor rally in CM’s home districtThe Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders had taken out a tractor rally in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s home district of Sehore to protest against the farm laws.  Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders take out tractor rally in Sehore, the home district of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to protest against #FarmLawsWill approach SC regarding farm laws: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister captain Amarinder Singh said that he would approach the Supreme Court regarding the farm laws since he felt that they were ‘anti-farmer bills’. We are very clear in our mind, these are anti-farmer Bills. We will approach the Supreme Court: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/tUwd6B02BnSolution must be found at PM level: Punjab CMPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that the solution to the protests must come from the Prime Minister’s level. He said that the PM should sit with his ministers and come up with a solution.  The solution has to be found at the level of Prime Minister. He must sit with his ministers and Home Minister and come to a solution. It has to be found by the PM finally: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/peOHgV0IvUBring peace to state, bring farmers home, repeal laws: Amarinder SinghPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that the Centre should bring peace to the state and get the farmers back home by repealing the laws. He said that new laws could be formulated later after speaking with farmers’ committees but the currently laws must be repealed since the farmers were demanding it.  If farmers are saying to withdraw the laws, you can withdraw laws & can talk to farmer's committees to bring whatever laws you want later on. But to bring peace to the state & bring farmers home, repeal the laws as they are demanding it: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder SinghNo law has that sanctity which can’t be touched: Amarinder SinghPunjab CM captain Amarinder SIngh said that no law had the sanctity which can’t be touched, citing the several constitutional amendments since its introduction.  No law has that sanctity which can't be touched. For instance, the constitution has been amended over 100 times since it was introduced in 1950. So why is it that this law can't be amended and you just have to withdraw it?: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/UiwZhQ1Mw8Punjab CM expresses his sympathy towards protesting farmersPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that it was the farmers’ right to protest and that the protesting farmers, old men and women had ‘101%’ of his sympathy. He said that the farmers were sacrificing their lives as well.  Farmers have every right to protest. My sympathy is 101 percent with the farmers,there are old men and women sitting & protesting at the borders (Delhi border). Till last reports, 55 farmers had died — they are sacrificing their lives:Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/9dRTeVgevUDuty of the government to respond to people of the country: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister captain Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to heed the demands of the protesting farmers and nor remain unresponsive. Singh said that the farmers had made their point clear and the Centre should repeal the laws.  It can't be the that the whole farmer community of the country is asking for something and the govt remains unresponsive. It is the duty of the govt to respond to ppl of the country. I feel that farmers have made their stand very clear that the laws should be repealed: Punjab CM pic.twitter.com/AL2jZp9MtgFarmers construct brick floor at Tikri border as rains flood tentsThe protesting farmers have constructed a brick floor using cement, gravel and bricks at the Tikri border as reported by news agency ANI. “Our tents were flooded with water due to rains, we had to sit throughout the night. We have used bricks & cement to build the floor & plan to construct more in coming days,” a protester said.  Delhi: Farmers construct brick floor using cement, gravel & bricks at Tikri Border."Our tents were flooded with water due to rains, we had to sit throughout the night. We have used bricks & cement to build the floor & plan to construct more in coming days," says a protester. pic.twitter.com/8pJYKbMfSrCommitted to the welfare of farmers: Narendra Singh TomarUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the government was committed to the welfare of the farmers. He said that he met with both supportive and protesting farmers and urged the latter to think about the welfare of farmers and arrive at a solution. Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu borderFarmers at Singhu border launched a massive exercise on Tuesday to cover all the tents with waterproof plastic sheets following rains in the city. Large bamboo sticks and iron pipes were brought to the border with hundreds of waterproof tarpaulin sheets to cover the tents. Farmers said a mega tent is also being set up at the centre stage from where the leaders address the protesters every day.Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain partly closedThe National Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at several points on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-tractor-march-deferred-till-tomorrow-due-to-bad-weather/story-MGyYRXeRN2xTLvf1ssriVM.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Are farmers protected against Covid?’: SC asks Centre, cites Tablighi event||The Supreme court on Thursday asked the Centre whether the thousands of farmers camping in and around Delhi in protest against the three farm laws over the past many weeks are “protected from Covid”. The court likened the state of affairs to one involving the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the capital in March last year that went on to become one of the biggest clusters of coronavirus cases. “This same problem is going to arise during the farmer protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things,” remarked a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. The bench, which also comprised Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, “Have you learnt from your experience in handling this [Jamaat] event? Have you found out how it happened?” Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the bench that the investigation into the Jamaat gathering was still on by the Delhi Police He added Covid-19 guidelines with regard to large gatherings were in place and sought two weeks to file a reply. The remarks were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation by Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita for a CBI probe into the Jamaat gathering. The petition underlined the need for guidelines to prevent such events from creating harm to public health at the time of the pandemic. Pandita’s lawyer, OP Parihar, cited the Jamaat gathering and added the group’s chief Maulana Saad has not been arrested yet. The bench said it is not interested in one person. “We are interested in ensuring Covid guidelines are prepared and implemented.” The PIL alleged negligence on part of the Delhi Government and Centre in allowing a mass gathering of Tablighi Jamaat members to assemble in the Capital. The petition demanded that an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation alone would indicate the administrative lapses. Pandita in her petition stated, “Ignoring all social distancing norms to avoid the deadly coronavirus, hundreds had been staying in the 100-year-old mosque since March 8 last year. More than 2,000 delegates from Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat.” The area where the event took place was sealed on March 30, 2020. Pandita said that “cluster transmission” of the virus took place as at least 16,500 people visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24. The area was sealed by the police on March 30.In June 2020, the Ministry of Home Affairs filed an affidavit in the apex court stating that all efforts were being made by the Delhi Police to complete the probe into the case. It rejected the request of the petitioner to entrust the probe to the CBI. Although the matter was heard by the Court since May 2020, notice on the petition was issued only on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-farmers-protected-against-covid-sc-asks-centre-cites-tablighi-event/story-wesvDKDLkU4gJfvd4caI6K.html
