08-01-2021||India||Will continue fight if laws not repealed, says farm leader Hannan Mollah||All India Kisan Sabha’s general secretary Hannan Mollah said on Friday farmers would continue their fight against the Centre’s contentious farm laws unless they were repealed and that the Republic Day tractor parade will go on as planned. The next round of talks between representatives of the Centre and the farmers is scheduled to be held on January 15 after their eighth round of meeting ended in a stalemate. The Centre told the farmers that it “cannot and will not repeal” the laws while the farmers have made it clear that the demonstrations would not stop until they were repealed.“There was a heated discussion. We said we don’t want anything other than the repeal of laws. We won’t go to any court. This (repeal) will either be done or we will continue to fight. Our parade on January 26 will go on as planned,” Mollah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after the eighth round of talks.Watch: Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protestAccording to farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti, farmers shouted slogans inside, saying, “We will either die or win.” Another farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they had also raised the issue of BJP leaders branding the protesters from Punjab ‘Khalistanis’, referencing the Sikh separatist movement. “We told the government that this is highly objectionable. On one hand, the government is negotiating with farmers, while the ruling party’s leaders are trying to tarnish our movement all the time,” he said.Also Read: It’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarThe eight rounds of talks between the farmers’ representatives and the Centre have yielded no solution. However, the Centre had said it will accept two of the farmers’ demands during the talks held on December 30. The government had agreed not to pay direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy for agricultural use, which the farmers argue would increase power costs for them. It also agreed to keep farmers out of the ambit of an anti-pollution law that prescribes harsh penalties for crop-residue burning.Thousands of farmers have been protesting around the borders of the national capital for well over a month against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. Their demands are a repeal of the three laws as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed minimum support prices. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act and enable contract farming based on written agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-fight-if-laws-not-repealed-says-farm-leader-hannan-mollah/story-LgF8pdSGJvN9sRe8ZmlMLN.html
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of talks between Centre, farmer leaders today: All you need to know||The eighth round of talks between the Centre and farmer leaders over the three farm laws enacted in September are scheduled for Friday even as protests over the legislation continue. Here is all that you need to know about the laws, protests and the talks:1. The seventh round of talks over the scrapping of the laws ended in a stalemate on Monday as three Union ministers leading the negotiations said it was impossible for them to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations.2. The two sides agreed to continue the talks on January 8 (Friday) even as farm unions hardened their stand, saying farmers will drive into Delhi in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands of scrapping the laws are not met by January 26.Also Read: Tractor march, ‘healthy discussion’: Where farmers’ protest stands ahead of 8th meeting3. Tens of thousands of farmers on tractors held a rally near New Delhi on Thursday to build pressure on the government ahead of Republic Day.4. Farm union leaders have said they were prepared to intensify their agitation as the government has not been prepared to budge.5. The government has ruled out a repeal of the laws and asked farm unions to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation.6. It has also sought to discuss the demand of a law guaranteeing assured prices for 23 farm commodities known as minimum support prices (MSP).7. The government has told farm leaders that it will review any clause farmers have a problem with but farms leaders have insisted on repealing the laws and bringing a law guaranteeing MSP.8. Some headway was made in the sixth round of talks on December 30 as the Centre agreed to exempt farmers from heavy fines for crop-residue burning as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance.9. The government promised to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use. The discussion on demands of the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of MSP were deferred till January 8.10. Farmers launched one of the biggest strikes in decades last month to force the Centre to revoke the three laws.11. The laws change the way farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces.12. They allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.13. Farmer leaders have said the government’s “ego problem” was coming in the way of resolving the issues.14. They have insisted they would not relent on their key demands for the repeal and a legal guarantee for MSP as thousands of farmers have hunkered down at various Delhi border points for over a month against the laws.15. The protesting farmers have stayed put despite heavy rains and water logging at protest sites besides severe cold weather conditions saying the laws favour big corporations at their cost.16. Farm leaders have said they will implement their new protest agenda, which includes picketing of governor houses, toll plazas and boycott of goods and services of the Reliance and Adani groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eighth-round-of-talks-between-centre-farmer-leaders-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-qWJb6izV7v1x0F6MWCK2iK.html
08-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders continue to remain closed, traffic diverted||Border crossing points to Delhi from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed for traffic on Friday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector.The Delhi Police have advised commuters from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara as Chilla and Ghazipur border crossings are closed.The Delhi-Haryana borders at Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh, too, remain closed.Also Read: ‘Are farmers protected against Covid?’: SC asks Centre, cites Tablighi eventThe police have advised commuters from Haryana to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla, and Singhu school toll tax borders. The traffic from Haryana has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, and NH-44.Motorists can also take the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad routes between the two states.The protests have been going on for 44 days now and farmers leaders will hold another round of talks with the Centre on Friday.Thousands of farmers took out a tractor rally on Thursday near Delhi as a “trailer” of their planned march on the Republic Day if the government does not accept their demands for scrapping the laws, which they say benefit big corporations at their cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-traffic-diverted/story-gTcSxuaKM7ryae5n3wzkVL.html
08-01-2021||India||Tractor march, ‘healthy discussion’: Where farmers’ protest stands ahead of 8th meeting||After seven rounds of talks over three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September 2020, farmers’ union leaders and Union ministers will sit for the eighth consultation on Friday. Both the sides have made two things clear: the laws won’t be repealed and farmers won’t reconsider their demand for a complete withdrawal of the laws. While farmers are intensifying their protest braving the cold and rain of Delhi, the Centre is hopeful that a conclusion will be reached soon. Punjab BJP leaders met Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday and said the farmers are being stubborn. “Govt is ready to listen but farmers are being stubborn. Law & order in Punjab is ruined. Sit-in protests are being done outside houses of our workers. The language being used & the kind of hooliganism in Punjab - we talked about it,” Harjit Singh Grewal said.“The government is ready to fulfil all the demands of farmers. But farmers are now saying that the laws be repealed. Why are they saying that? I think farmer unions don’t want a solution. I think their plan is something else,” he said.Supreme Court hearingThe Supreme Court on January 11 will hear a batch of pleas challenging the farm laws and also pleas which raised issues related to the ongoing protests. The Supreme Court bench on Wednesday was informed by the Centre that healthy discussions were going on between the government and farmers. Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is a good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future. “We understand the situation and encourage the consultation,” the bench said.On Thursday, the apex court was hearing a plea seeking various reliefs including that of CBI probe into the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz etc. During the hearing, it asked the Centre whether farmers protesting against the farm laws are protected against the spread of Covid-19. Protests to intensifyOn January 7, the protesters took out tractor march from four different points — Singhu to Tikri border, Tikri to Kundlim Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal. Terming the tractor march as a trailer of what will happen on January 26, Republic Day, protesters on Friday said when their leaders decide to enter the capital, protesters will enter Delhi. Thursday’s tractor march was only at the border points.What happened at earlier meetingsSeveral thousands of farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march on November 26. Consultation with the Centre, however, began in September soon after the bills were passed. Farmers’ leaders walked out of the first meeting as no minister was present. In the consequent meetings, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways and food minister Piyush Goyal, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Prakash are generally present. They explain to the union leaders the benefits of the laws. There was agreement between the two parties on stubble burning and electricity, but on MSP and on the issue of withdrawing the laws completely, there has been no headway yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tractor-march-healthy-discussion-where-farmers-protest-stand-ahead-of-8th-meeting/story-mPjt1LiBt8xidQyBpyfWZO.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Cannot and will not repeal laws,’ says Centre as farm talks hit another stalemate||The Union government has told protesting farm unions it “cannot and will not repeal” three contentious agricultural laws during the eighth round of talks which took place on Friday at the national capital’s Vigyan Bhavan, a farm leader told HT, deepening a stalemate between the two sides. The next round of talks is now slated to take place on January 15. Tens of thousands of farmers are on protest for over a month, demanding the government scraps its pro-reform farm laws approved by Parliament in September.“The government has said it cannot and will not repeal the laws,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farm leader who was present at the talks. ALSO WATCH | Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protest The first session of the talks, which ended a short while ago, saw the farmers hardening their stand, who said they were interested only in a repeal of the laws. According to Kuruganti, farm leaders raised slogans inside the meet to make their stand clear, “We will either die or win.” Also read: Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi: UN-designated terrorist, 26/11 mastermindThree Union ministers — Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash - who are representing the Centre had met Union home minister Amit Shah before heading into the talks. Farm minister Narendra Tomar, opening the negotiations, said that the three federal laws to open up agricultural markets apply to the whole of the country and many farmer organisations support the laws. “The government said it couldn’t repeal the laws and is ready to discuss anything farmers find objectionable,” Balbir Singh Rajewal, a farm leader, told HT from inside the venue. Rajewal, who opened the negotiations from the farmers’ side, said the farmers won’t give up their agitation unless the laws are repealed. The farmers raised the issue of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Punjab calling protesting farm leaders names and branding them Khalistanis, a reference to the Sikh separatist movement. “We told the government that this is highly objectionable. On one hand, the government is negotiating with farmers, while the ruling party’s leaders are trying to tarnish our movement all the time,” Rajewal said. Also read: Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?During a tea break amid talks, the three ministers sat in a separate adjacent room to discuss among themselves. The seventh round of talks, held on January 4, had ended in a stalemate too. While the farmers pressed the government to repeal the three agricultural laws, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not possible to commit to a repeal.  In the previous round of talks, held on December 30, the government agreed to two demands of the farmers. One, the government had agreed not to pay direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy for agricultural use, which the farmers argue would increase power costs for them. Two, the government had agreed to keep farmers out of the ambit of an anti-pollution law that prescribes harsh penalties for crop-residue burning.  Farmers are demanding a repeal of three pro-reforms laws as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed minimum support prices.  The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-and-will-not-repeal-laws-says-centre-as-farm-talks-hit-another-stalemate/story-eRQEIanpllKQcvV2AsWVqN.html
08-01-2021||India||Will continue fight if laws not repealed, says farm leader Hannan Mollah||All India Kisan Sabha’s general secretary Hannan Mollah said on Friday farmers would continue their fight against the Centre’s contentious farm laws unless they were repealed and that the Republic Day tractor parade will go on as planned. The next round of talks between representatives of the Centre and the farmers is scheduled to be held on January 15 after their eighth round of meeting ended in a stalemate. The Centre told the farmers that it “cannot and will not repeal” the laws while the farmers have made it clear that the demonstrations would not stop until they were repealed.“There was a heated discussion. We said we don’t want anything other than the repeal of laws. We won’t go to any court. This (repeal) will either be done or we will continue to fight. Our parade on January 26 will go on as planned,” Mollah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after the eighth round of talks.Watch: Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protestAccording to farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti, farmers shouted slogans inside, saying, “We will either die or win.” Another farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they had also raised the issue of BJP leaders branding the protesters from Punjab ‘Khalistanis’, referencing the Sikh separatist movement. “We told the government that this is highly objectionable. On one hand, the government is negotiating with farmers, while the ruling party’s leaders are trying to tarnish our movement all the time,” he said.Also Read: It’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarThe eight rounds of talks between the farmers’ representatives and the Centre have yielded no solution. However, the Centre had said it will accept two of the farmers’ demands during the talks held on December 30. The government had agreed not to pay direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy for agricultural use, which the farmers argue would increase power costs for them. It also agreed to keep farmers out of the ambit of an anti-pollution law that prescribes harsh penalties for crop-residue burning.Thousands of farmers have been protesting around the borders of the national capital for well over a month against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. Their demands are a repeal of the three laws as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed minimum support prices. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act and enable contract farming based on written agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-fight-if-laws-not-repealed-says-farm-leader-hannan-mollah/story-LgF8pdSGJvN9sRe8ZmlMLN.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Will not back down on farm laws’: Priyanka Gandhi tells Cong MPs||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told Congress leaders, protesting against the three controversial farm laws in New Delhi, that nothing short of a repeal of the legislations was acceptable, said party leaders present in the meeting with Gandhi at the protest venue at 12 Tughlaq Lane.“We will not back down,” Priyanka Gandhi said at the meeting. “The only solution is that they revoke the laws, there is no other solution.” The Congress general secretary also discussed the way forward with the protesting members of parliament and other leaders. “She extended her sympathy for our plight,” said a leader, who attended the meeting. “She also discussed a programme that the Congress will launch if the laws aren’t repealed,” he added.Party leaders present at the meeting also said that issues regarding the organisation were discussed. The meeting, which lasted over two hours, also addressed the need for improvements in the party to better provide an effective opposition. “The government is delaying repealing the laws,” Congress MP Jasbir Singh Gill, who attended the meeting, said. “It is deliberately using these tactics because it wants to tire out the farmers and drive them away without addressing their concerns.”Also Read: It’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarThe Congress MPs and legislators have been protesting at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi since last month to draw the government’s attention to the plight of the farmers. Despite eight rounds of talks, with the latest one being held on Friday, the government has refused to compromise on its stand and repeal the three controversial laws that the farmers say will deprive them of their livelihood and make them vulnerable to powerful private firms. The government has, however, offered to set up a committee to examine the laws. The Congress has been vehemently opposing the government’s stance, with interim party chief Sonia Gandhi calling for a complete revocation of the “black laws”. She has targeted the government for being “ruthless, insensitive and arrogant”, for allegedly displaying complete “apathy” towards the plight of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-back-down-on-farm-laws-priyanka-gandhi-tells-cong-mps/story-RnBjgwgA4Ulyiob08DUPKM.html
08-01-2021||India||Before 8th round of talks with protesting farmers, govt says hopeful of resolving issues||Ahead of the eighth round of talks between farmers’ union leaders and representatives of the government over the three controversial farm laws passed in September, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped for a breakthrough in the impasse. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday’s meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting.” There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added.Also Read: ‘Repeal farm laws today itself’: Farmers message to govt ahead of talksChoudhury reiterated the centre’s stand that the laws are in interest of the farmers. These legislations are just a beginning, he said, and added that the unions are agitating against the laws under the “influence of arhtiyas (commission agents)”. “Next, the Pesticide (Management) Bill and the Seed Bill will come. At that time too, farmers can be misguided,” he said.The eighth round of talks will take place between Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash and the 40 protesting farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan at 2pm on Friday. Tomar is likely to call on Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue ahead of the talks, sources told news agency PTI.Click here for live updates on farmers’ protestWhile the government has said it will consider making changes to the laws but won’t repeal them, farmers have demanded that they be revoked completely. Both sides have said they won’t budge from their positions. These laws are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-8th-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmers-govt-says-hopeful-of-resolving-issues/story-0BCEDTJ0lfj3qtBEaAlG6N.html
