11-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: JP Nadda says BJP has duly recognised Assam's culture and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'BJP has given due recognition to Assam's culture': Nadda in SilcharBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda, who is is Assam, said on Monday that the party has always given due recognition to the state's culture, language and identity. Read More'Only samples from Sanjay Lake tested positive for bird flu': Manish SisodiaDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake area are the only ones in the national capital that have tested positive for bird flu so far. Read MoreIf Centre doesn't want to stay farm laws' implementation, we will: SCThe Supreme Court on Monday said it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations are being held between the Centre and the farmers over the three farm laws. Read More‘Kuch kaam na aaya’: Virender Sehwag comments on video of Steve Smith removing Rishabh Pant’s batting guardIt looked like a tough effort for the Indian cricket team to save the third Test against Australia in Sydney. Read MoreUS-based Triton set to enter Indian market with N4 electric sedanUS-based Triton Electric Vehicle on Monday said it aims to introduce N4 sedan in India with price starting at Rs.35 lakh. Read MoreiPhone 12 shipments likely to exceed Galaxy S21 series, analysts predictSamsung will launch its next-generation Galaxy S21 series on January 14. Ahead of the official launch, analysts have predicted bad news for the company’s upcoming flagship smartphone series. Read MoreBoardroom aesthetic to casual look: Is there any outfit Hina Khan can't rock?If there is one celebrity who can carry any type of outfit with the utmost elan, it is Hina Khan. The actor always manages to leave us speechless with her wardrobe choices. Read MoreArjun Rampal’s sister Komal reaches NCB office for questioning in drugs caseActor Arjun Rampal’s sister, Komal, reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office on Monday morning for questioning in a drugs case. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jp-nadda-in-silchar-and-all-the-latest-news-101610361612904.html
11-01-2021||India||Amid farmers’ protests, govt plans to scale up Kisan e-mart||The Central government is planning to scale up the digital online platform, Kisan e-mart, that allows farmers to directly sell their produce to private buyers, even as the impasse over the three new agricultural laws continues.According to people familiar with the matter, the pilot, which is currently active in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Haryana, will now be extended to Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tripura, Gujarat and Telangana.The Kisan e-mart is a partnership between Agri10x and the Common Services Centre (CSC) scheme, which operates under the Digital India project of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. Nearly 375,000 CSCs are functional at the panchayat-level across India. Farmers are allowed to register at the CSC and after their KYC is completed, they can sell produce online without the hassle of having to transport it.Also Read: SC to hear pleas on farm laws, Delhi protests todayAccording to Pankaj Ghode, CEO of Agri10x, nearly 500,000 farmers are registered on the portal, which provides them access to 5,000 buyers. The buyers include major grocery retailers such as Big Basket, Reliance Fresh, Ninja Kart, Venky’s and Haldiram’s.The online platform provides direct access to buyers, doing away with mandis. This has been a major point of contention for the farmers under the new farm laws. Farmers have been demanding a repeal of the laws as they say the legislations will hurt their livelihoods. While the government has agreed to set up a committee to look into the law, it has stayed firm on not repealing them despite several rounds of talks with the farmers.“The buyers offer the farmers their prices and they can choose who to sell the produce to,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. “The farmer gets a chance to assess which is a better and fairer price.”The ambit of the platform, which has been functional for over six months now, was slated to be expanded earlier but was delayed due to the new farm legislations, the official added.Ghode said that the aim is to make Kisan e-mart functional across 28 states over the next three years, but for now expansion would take place in the states mentioned. “It is a simple concept. The farmer can avoid the cost of transportation, effectively allowing him/her to make more money by using the platform,” he said. “The scheme has been a major success.”According to the government official mentioned above, feedback about the functioning of the e-mart has also been reviewed by the government. Among the areas identified for improvement is the need to generate a greater level of trust with the farmers.“The farmers feel that if they use the online platform, there is no guarantee that the buyer will purchase from them again,” the official said on the condition of anonymity. “We are trying to spread more awareness to address this concern.”Another issue is regarding the quality of the produce. While at present, the quality is determined digital using a software to analyse the photographs, a system of physical inspection may be in the offing.“There is a need to put in place a mechanism for sorting and grading the produce,” the official said. “All concerns will be evaluated and addressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-farmers-protests-govt-plans-to-scale-up-kisan-emart-101610337443079.html
11-01-2021||India||Ghazipur, Chilla borders partially blocked; Singhu, Tikri remain closed||The traffic moving from Noida and Ghaziabad towards Delhi remained affected on Monday as Ghazipur and Chilla borders continue to remain partially blocked with only one carriageway open, for those leaving Delhi. The traffic going towards Delhi at both these borders has been diverted as farmers continue their agitation against the three farm laws, blocking one carriageway. Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continue to remain completely blocked since November 26.A senior police officer said the traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual at Chilla border while the carriageway leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continue to block one carriageway on Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway, while the other one, for those exiting Delhi, is open with normal traffic, he said.“There is sufficient deployment of force at both the borders to ensure law and order. Efforts are being made to minimise the inconvenience to the public,” the officer said.Catch LIVE Updates of farmers’ protest hereAt Ghazipur border, the NH-24 service lane that has been blocked by the farmers since November 27, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Monday.Apart from Chilla and Ghazipur borders, the borders that continue to remain completely blocked are -- Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh .Delhi Traffic Police, in its advisory, asked people to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Chilla, Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The traffic police said that currently available borders to Haryana are the following -- Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Delhi Traffic Police also took to social media to update the traffic situation. In one of its tweets, the police said, “The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni Borders.”Police also tweeted, “Singhu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghazipur-chilla-borders-partially-blocked-singhu-tikri-remain-closed-101610335730728.html
11-01-2021||NA||Haryana CM should convince Centre to repeal farm laws: Hooda||The ongoing farmers' agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September entered day 47 on Monday. Ahead of the ninth round of talks between the government and the farmers on January 15, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre on Monday for its handling of the protests against the new laws and said it was extremely disappointed with the way talks were going. The apex court added that it will set up a committee, which will be headed by a former chief justice of India (CJI) to resolve the deadlock.Also Read | SC to hear pleas on farm laws, protest at Delhi borders todayTotal eight round of talks, including one each of January 4 and 8, have failed to resolve the deadlock between the government and various farm union leaders, who are representing the protesting farmers. While the farm unions are adamant on nothing short of a repeal, the government, too, has repeatedly stressed that the laws won't be taken back. The next round of talks will take place on January 15. On Sunday, farmers protesting against the farm laws in Haryana's Karnal vandalised the venue of a pro-farm laws programme which was to be addressed by chief minister ML Khattar, forcing him to cancel the programme.Also Read | Singhu farmers put up new signage, rename protest areasFollow all the updates here:Instead of Karnal event, Khattar should convince Centre to repeal farm laws: HoodaSenior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said on Monday that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should focus on convincing the Centre on removing the farm laws instead of proposing to hold programmes like in Karnal. “Rather than holding such sabha (mahapanchayat in Karnal), he (Khattar) should go to Delhi and convince the central government, and tell them that these laws are not in farmers' interest,” Hooda said. Sonia Gandhi speaks to Oppn leaders to plan strategy over lawsCongress President Sonia Gandhi spoke to leaders of the opposition parties to plan out a strategy in the budget session of Parliament regarding the new farm laws. A meeting will also be held over the new laws before the start of Parliament session later this month, sources told news agency ANI. Staying implementation of laws not a solution: FarmersFarmer leaders said on Monday that a stay on the implementation of the farm laws was not a solution to the ongoing agitation as it was fixed only for a certain period of time. The leaders added that they want a full removal of the laws and the protests would continue even if the Supreme Court or Centre stays their implementation. Govt should leave its stubborn attitude, resolve farmers' issues: BKU chiefBharatiya Kisan Union Naresh Tikait president said on Monday that the Centre should abandon its "stubborn" attitude and resolve the issues of farmers through the way of talks. Speaking to reporters at the Union's headquarters in Muzaffarnagar, Tikait said, "Farmers are aware that the three new agri laws have been brought by the Centre "to benefit big corporates" and are "against peasants".Congress to hold Opposition parties' meet on farm laws before Parliament session: ReportsCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi has spoken to the Opposition leaders to make a joint strategy on farm laws and a meeting will be held before Parliament Session: ReportsINLD's Abhay Chautala says will resign from Haryana assembly if laws not withdrawn by January 26Indian National Lokdal leader Abhay Singh Chautala writes to Haryana Assembly Speaker, says, "If by 26th January the Centre does not take back the farm laws, then, this letter should be considered as my resignation from the state assembly". pic.twitter.com/w7nNQqQEJJIn letter to Haryana assembly speaker, Indian National Lok Dal's Abhay Singh Chautala says will resign from assembly if farm laws not withdrawn by January 26.CJI's bench rises for the day, no order passed yetCJI-headed bench rises for the day, without passing any order. Bench says it will pass an order.Will not hold tractor march on January 26, says farmer unions' counselSenior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the farmer unions, says farmers will not hold tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day as planned earlier.Negotiations will be better if laws withheld, says SCIf laws are put on hold, the negotiations will be much better: Supreme CourtWill farmers move to another site if laws are stayed, asks top court"If implementation of laws is stayed, farmers may continue protests but whether you (farmers) want to continue protests at the same site or would you move to another site in interest of citizens," asks Supreme Court.We fear some 'unintended' incident may happen: Supreme CourtSome day some intended or unintended incident may happen that can breach peace. We Don't want blood on our hands: Supreme CourtWill put stay on farm laws, says Supreme CourtWe will stay farm laws if the government doesn't want to stay implementation of these laws, says Supreme Court.Can the farm laws be put on hold, asks CJI Bobde'Can the farm laws be put on hold for some time? Some people have committed suicide, old people and women are a part of the agitation. What's happening? Not a single plea has been filed that said the farm laws are good," says CJI Bobde.Hearing begins in SC, CJI 'disappointed' at how negotiations are going onHearing begins in Supreme Court on pleas challenging farm laws. "Don't know what negotiations are going on," says chief justice SA Bobde.Amid anti-farm laws' stir, Delhi CM remembers former PM Shastriपूर्व प्रधानमंत्री श्री लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी ने 'जय जवान जय किसान' का नारा दिया था, आज उनके शब्दों को सार्थक करने का वक्त है, कड़कड़ाती ठंड में अपने हक़ के लिए संघर्ष कर रहे किसान भाईयों का साथ देने का वक्त है।श्री लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी के स्मृति दिवस पर उन्हें कोटि कोटि नमन pic.twitter.com/7jUl2JpbCAAmid the ongoing anti-farm laws' stir, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pays tribute to former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri, who coined the iconic slogan 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan.'Farmers adamant on repeal, govt offers amendmentsFarmers have made two main demands repeatedly-legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and repeal of the three laws. The government, though, has made it clear laws won't be repealed and has offered to make amendments instead.Yes, didn't allow Haryana CM to hold rally: Farmer leaderYes, we didn't allow Khattar Sahab to hold the rally in Karnal. BJP said that they will hold 700 rallies to break our movement and we will protest against such BJP rallies: Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Bharatiya Kisan UnionMega tractor march planned in Delhi on Republic DayFarm union leaders have already announced that a mega tractor march will be held in Delhi on January 26, on the occasion of Republic Day, if the farm laws are not taken back.Farmers force Haryana CM to cancel pro-farm laws' rallyML Khattar had to cancel his rally in Karnal after protesting farmers vandalised the venue of his programme in the city on Sunday.Delhi Traffic Police issues traffic advisoryChilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra and Loni borders: Delhi Traffic PoliceSC to hear petitions on farm laws, protests in DelhiThe Supreme Court will on Monday hear a bunch of petitions challenging the farm laws, as well as those concerning the ongoing anti-farm law stir at Delhi's borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-11-2021-101610329072382.html
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hry CM calls off meet after protesters vandalise venue||Farmers protesting against three central farm laws ransacked the venue of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat, in Karnal’s Kaimla village on Sunday, forcing the CM to cancel his programme. The protesters also clashed with the police personnel, participants of the event and villagers.Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat was aimed to drum up support for the three contentious agriculture laws that have triggered widespread protests in North India, particulary at the borders of the national capital, where farmers have been protesting since November-end.Ahead of the programme, the police blocked all the roads leading to the village but protesters managed to reach the venue and broke chairs, tore banners and damaged the helipad where the CM's helicopter was supposed to land. The police used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent farmers from marching towards the village.According to eyewitnesses, a clash first broke out between the farmers and police personnel when they were marching towards the helipad.The villagers in favour of the panchayat also tried to stop the protesters. However, the protesters outnumbered the police and the pro-Kisan panchayat organisers and ransacked the venue.The CM returned to Chandigarh without addressing the gathering.Karnal superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Punia said “Three farmers have been arrested under preventive measures and they will be produced in the court on Monday.” He said, so far, 71 farmers have been booked under various sections of IPC for rioting and assault on public servants.Describing ransacking of the venue in Karnal as an act of “betrayal by the farm union leaders”, Khattar accused Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) state leader, Gurnam Singh Charuni responsible for the vandalism. Notably, on January 6, the BKU(Charuni) had threatened that they would oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ event.“Vishwasghat kiya gaya unke dwara (This is an act of betrayal by farm union leaders). The leaders of the agitating farmer unions had assured the administration on Saturday that they will hold symbolic protest... but they did not keep the promise,” the chief minister said.In a video message, BKU (Charuni) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni took the responsibility of the incident in Kaimla village and said, “Yes we have done this because the BJP wad holding parallel programmes to weaken our agitation. The BJP has announced to hold 700 rallies in favour of three contentious laws and we will oppose all such meetings”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hry-cm-calls-off-meet-after-protesters-vandalise-venue-101610326476319.html
11-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas on farm laws, Delhi protests today||As the impasse continues between the government and farm unions on resolving differences over three contentious agricultural laws, all eyes on Monday will be trained on the Supreme Court, which is to take up separate petitions challenging the farms laws and those filed by lawyers and law students to end a protest by farmers who have encircled Delhi since November 26.On January 6, during a hearing in the SC, the Centre said that an “understanding” could be in sight with the farmers’ unions over the contentious agricultural laws, even as the Chief Justice of India lamented that there was “no improvement in the situation”. A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde will take up four petitions filed by four different sets of petitioners who are seeking an end to the protest while some are demanding the provision of facilities farmers who have massed at the protest sites in the chill of winter. The petitions have been filed by advocates Reepak Kansal, GS Mani, law student Rishabh Sharma and a person identified as Janeshwar.The court will also take up a separate set of seven writ petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September. Farmers say the laws will hurt their livelihoods, reduce their bargaining power and put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses.Among those who have challenged the farm laws in the top court include members of Parliament Tiruchi Siva from Tamil Nadu’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Manoj Kumar Jha from Bihar’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma, the Bhartiya Kisan Party, Madhya Pradesh farmer DP Dhakad, Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress vice president Rakesh Vaishnav and P Ayyakannu, state president of the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Sangam.On four of these petitions, the SC had issued notice on October 12 and directed the Centre to file its response. On January 6, when the court issued notice on a fresh petition by lawyer ML Sharma, attorney general KK Venugopal informed the Court that since talks between farmers and the government were “healthy”, the government had shelved its plans to file a response on the validity of farm laws. The unions have sought a repeal of the laws. The Centre is open to incorporating modifications, but has ruled out their repeal. The stalemate continues after the eighth round of talks. The next round of talks is slated for January 15.No role of SC in resolving ‘deadlock’: UnionThe government should resolve the “political deadlock” over new farm laws without the involvement of the Supreme Court, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said on Sunday and warned that the protesting farmers “will soon close down all borders” of Delhi if their demand for repeal of the legislations is not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-delhi-protests-today-101610326079924.html
11-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas on farm laws, protest at Delhi borders today||Amid a deadlock in the government’s negotiations with protesting farmer unions, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues related to the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders.The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 appeared heading nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their ‘ghar waapsi’ will happen only after ‘law waapsi’.The Monday hearing on the pleas by a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde assumes significance as the Centre and the farmer leaders are scheduled to hold their next meeting on January 15.The top court was told by the Centre that “healthy discussions” were going and there was good chance that both sides may come to a conclusion in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-protest-at-delhi-borders-today-101610318474342.html
11-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to pronounce orders on Tuesday on farm laws, farmers' protests||The Supreme Court will pronounce orders on Tuesday on various issues related to the new farm laws and the farmers' ongoing protest at Delhi borders and may take a call on setting up of a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India (CJI) to find ways to resolve the impasse.A bench, headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which indicated during the hearing that it may pass orders in parts on the issues concerning farm laws and farmers' protest, later uploaded the information on the website.“List these matters tomorrow i.e. 12.01.2021, for orders,” said the bench which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.'The bench on Monday heard a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues of citizens' right to move freely during the ongoing farmers' stir.It pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going.It also indicated amply that it may go to the extent of staying the implementation of the contentious farm laws and refused to grant extra time to the Centre to explore the possibility of amicable solution saying it has already granted the government a “long rope”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-pronounce-orders-on-tuesday-on-farm-laws-farmers-protests-101610372896724.html
11-01-2021||India||If Centre doesn't want to stay farm laws' implementation, we will: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations are being held between the Centre and the farmers over the three farm laws, which have triggered protests by thousands of agriculturists at Delhi's borders.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, is hearing a batch of petitions, including those filed by DMK lawmaker Tiruchi Siva and RJD's Manoj K Jha, against the constitutional validity of three farm laws, along with the plea to remove protesting farmers."What is going on? States are rebelling against your laws," the bench told the Centre. "We are extremely disappointed at the way the government is handling the talks. What consultative process was followed by you before passing the laws? All are up in rebellion against the laws," it added.Also read | Amid farmers’ protests, govt plans to scale up Kisan e-martThe top court also asked the Centre to make a statement on putting the laws on hold that can give way to the court forming a committee of independent experts to go through the laws threadbare."Our intention is to see if we can bring about an amicable resolution of the problem. Why don't you (Centre) put your laws on hold? If there is some sense of responsibility now, you can say we will not implement our laws. We will have a committee of distinguished officers... Withhold the implementation of laws till there is a discussion by the proposed committee," it said.It also pointed out that there is not a single petition before it, which says the laws are beneficial.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, the Centre's second senior-most law officer, said a majority of farmers in the country have said find they find them beneficial. To which the bench said, "If the vast majority thinks this law is beneficial, let them say to the committee".Also read | Ghazipur, Chilla borders partially blocked; Singhu, Tikri remain closedThe Supreme Court said it feels someday some intended or unintended incident may happen that can breach the peace. "We don't want blood on our hands. There should be no bloodshed or violence," it said. It said that if the three laws are put on hold, the negotiations will be much better.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who is representing the farmers, informed the Supreme Court that farmers will not take out their proposed tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day.As Attorney General KK Venugopal, who is representing the government, brought up the issue of protesting farmers vandalising the venue of a pro-farm laws’ rally in Haryana’s Karnal on Sunday. The rally was to be addressed by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The ruckus led to Khattar cancelling it.“Yesterday, there was an unsavoury incident of violence at a protest site near Karnal. Now they (farmers) want to march their tractors to Rajpath on January 26,” Venugopal said. “We don’t intend to protect the lawbreakers,” the top court bench responded, asking Dave why will farmers march with their tractors to Rajpath in the national capital.“We (farmer unions) will not do that,” Dave replied. “The farmers have their family members in the security forces. They will not do that. I will not make a statement. There are 400 unions at the protest site. There are 150,000 farmers there.”The farmers' unions had announced a series of programmes earlier this month to build pressure on the government to repeal the laws after multiple rounds of talks with the Centre did not yield any result.One of the steps announced by them was the said tractor march, which, they said, would see thousands of tractors enter Delhi on January 26 on Republic Day and “march” in the national capital parallel to the official celebrations. As a “trailer,” a tractor march was organised on January 7 on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.Harish Salve, appearing for a PIL petitioner seeking protest to end, said if the laws are to be put in abeyance then there must be an assurance of peace from farmers. "They should not turn around and say now this round is won, now we seek repeal," he said adding that both the parties should go to committee with an open mind or else stalemate will continue.Also read | Singhu farmers put up new signage, rename protest areasThe top court also urged farmers to convince women, children and old people at protest sites as they are vulnerable due to Covid-19 and extreme weather. "Who is willing to take responsibility for any loss of lives? " it asked.It did not pass any order yet on the farmers' protests but has said it will pass an order on the petitions related to farmer protests. A decision by the court is awaited later in the day.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-centre-doesn-t-want-to-stay-farm-laws-implementation-we-will-sc-101610351136297.html
11-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas on farm laws, Delhi protests today||As the impasse continues between the government and farm unions on resolving differences over three contentious agricultural laws, all eyes on Monday will be trained on the Supreme Court, which is to take up separate petitions challenging the farms laws and those filed by lawyers and law students to end a protest by farmers who have encircled Delhi since November 26.On January 6, during a hearing in the SC, the Centre said that an “understanding” could be in sight with the farmers’ unions over the contentious agricultural laws, even as the Chief Justice of India lamented that there was “no improvement in the situation”. A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde will take up four petitions filed by four different sets of petitioners who are seeking an end to the protest while some are demanding the provision of facilities farmers who have massed at the protest sites in the chill of winter. The petitions have been filed by advocates Reepak Kansal, GS Mani, law student Rishabh Sharma and a person identified as Janeshwar.The court will also take up a separate set of seven writ petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September. Farmers say the laws will hurt their livelihoods, reduce their bargaining power and put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses.Among those who have challenged the farm laws in the top court include members of Parliament Tiruchi Siva from Tamil Nadu’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Manoj Kumar Jha from Bihar’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma, the Bhartiya Kisan Party, Madhya Pradesh farmer DP Dhakad, Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress vice president Rakesh Vaishnav and P Ayyakannu, state president of the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Sangam.On four of these petitions, the SC had issued notice on October 12 and directed the Centre to file its response. On January 6, when the court issued notice on a fresh petition by lawyer ML Sharma, attorney general KK Venugopal informed the Court that since talks between farmers and the government were “healthy”, the government had shelved its plans to file a response on the validity of farm laws. The unions have sought a repeal of the laws. The Centre is open to incorporating modifications, but has ruled out their repeal. The stalemate continues after the eighth round of talks. The next round of talks is slated for January 15.No role of SC in resolving ‘deadlock’: UnionThe government should resolve the “political deadlock” over new farm laws without the involvement of the Supreme Court, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said on Sunday and warned that the protesting farmers “will soon close down all borders” of Delhi if their demand for repeal of the legislations is not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-delhi-protests-today-101610326079924.html
11-01-2021||Delhi||Singhu farmers put up new signage, rename protest areas||Farmers protesting at Singhu border on Sunday installed a green signage near the main stage designating new names for different areas in a radius of several kilometres on the Kundli Highway. According to organisers, the signage has been installed to remember freedom fighters of our country and is a symbol of the cultural movement at Singhu border.The over ten kilometre-long protest spot has been divided into seven areas and has been named after freedom fighters like Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Chandrashekhar Azad, Kartar Singh Sarabha, along with Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur.For instance, the area from the main stage to Kessel Grand mall – one of the most crowded stretches – has been renamed as Banda Singh Bahadur Nagar, after the 17th century Sikh warrior. The stretch from Kessel Mall to HP Petrol Pump has been renamed as Sardar Bhagat Singh Nagar.The signage is among the many elements installed in the past 46 days by farmers, who have transformed the Kundli highway into a town having its own makeshift hospital, mall, library, gurdwara, and gym, among other facilities.Jagjit Singh, 20, a Nihang Sikh from Chamkaur Sahib in Punjab, who was present when the signage was installed early on Sunday, said, “We have been at the Singhu border for over a month now. Until the farm laws are repealed, the area will be a home for protesting farmers and it is our colony. This is why we decided to name the area in the memory of our leaders.”The green signage was suspended from the shed of the main stage area on early Sunday morning. Harinder Singh, media coordinator of the Samyukt Kisaan Morcha – an umbrella organization of over 40 farmer groups — said installing the signage was a symbolic gesture. “The ongoing agitation is not just a farmers’ protest, but also a cultural movement. We need to remember the legacy of our freedom fighters and leaders, which is why their names have been given to different key points across the highway.”Jaspreet Kaur, 32, a resident of Ludhiana, who joined the protest last week, said, “We have a Sarabha Nagar market in our city as well. It is nice to see that the names of our leaders are being included at this historic protest in Delhi as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/singhu-farmers-put-up-new-signage-rename-protest-areas-101610301870044.html
