19-01-2021||Bangalore||Congress in Karnataka to lay siege to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday||The Karnataka unit of Congress will lay siege to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday against the three contentious farm laws, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar said on Tuesday."Tomorrow (Wednesday) we are laying siege to the Raj Bhavan against the three laws and the failure to release grants for the control of coronavirus in the state," Shivakumar told reporters.Appealing to the farmers and people to participate in large numbers, Shivakumar said there will be pick-up vehicles at the Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru city railway station for the protesters coming from outside to take them to the Freedom Park, venue from where the 'Raj Bhavan Chalo' march will take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-in-karnataka-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhavan-on-wednesday-101611067550387.html
19-01-2021||India||We were a preeminent economy, now we are a laughing stock: Rahul Gandhi targets govt over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday criticised the government over the farm laws claiming that there is a huge section of the country’s population which is unhappy with how the government is running the nation. “There are millions of people in this country who do not accept what is going on in the country. They understand that there is a massive failure… We used to be a preeminent economy in the world. We are a laughing stock (now), we cannot give jobs to our youngsters and our farmers are out protesting in the cold,” Gandhi said.The Congress leader also said that the nation’s image is being tarnished due to the agitations. “This is something to be ashamed of. The whole world is asking us why are lakh farmers protesting daily,” he said during a press conference.The Congress lawmaker from Wayanad also targeted JP Nadda over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president's tweets where he questioned Gandhi over the promises of reforms made by the Congress in its election manifesto for the Lok Sabha in 2019. While replying to Nadda's criticism Gandhi said that Congress supported farmers by protesting against land acquisition and extending farm loan waivers. “During land acquisition, Congress stood with farmers. Congress also extended farm loan waivers to farmers, JP Nadda was not there during all this,” he said.Nadda had claimed that Gandhi sympathises with farmers only when he is in the opposition. “Rahul Gandhi has been spreading lies that all APMC Mandis will be closed down. But wasn't action against the APMC Act a part of Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis,” Nadda had questioned him in a tweet on Tuesday. “Why did the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) stall the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the minimum support price (MSP)? Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress Governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?” he had asked.Farmers’ union representatives will hold the tenth round of discussions on Wednesday over the three farms laws passed in September last year. Farmers have been protesting for almost two months against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 at Delhi’s borders.Farmers say that these laws will not double the incomes for the farmers as the government claims but will pave way for contract farming and allow multinational companies to reap profits off the agricultural sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-were-a-preeminent-economy-now-we-are-a-laughing-stock-rahul-gandhi-targets-govt-over-farm-laws-101611046671649.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court shouldn’t stay but scrap farm laws: Congress’s DK Shivkumar||Congress’s DK Shivakumar on Tuesday expressed solidarity with protesting farmers and announced that his party will be holding a “big protest” on Wednesday to support the farmers’ demands.He added that the top court must order a complete roll-back of the three contentious agricultural laws, which have been stayed for the time being. “We stand by farmers of this country. The Supreme Court has stayed the laws. They shouldn't stay but scrap it. This is what Congress demands. The farmers' demand is justified. On behalf of the Congress party, we are holding a big protest tomorrow to support them,” he told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereFormer party president Rahul Gandhi released a booklet on 'pitfalls' of the three farm laws passed by the central government in the last monsoon session of Parliament."A majority of farm labourers are SC-ST and OBC and these laws also affect them. The booklet will provide detailed information on how these laws will affect the farmers and at the same time how it will impact government purchase and thus the public distribution system too," a leader involved in the process of finalising the booklets told ANI.Meanwhile, BJP national president JP Nadda accused Gandhi and the Congress party of misleading farmers. “When will Congress stop provoking and misleading farmers of India? Why did UPA stall the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the MSP? Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress Governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?,” he wrote on Twitter.He said that Gandhi has been spreading lies that all APMC Mandis will be closed down. “But wasn’t action against the APMC Act a part of Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis?,” he added.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three farm laws—Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020—enacted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-shouldn-t-stay-but-scrap-farm-laws-congress-s-dk-shivkumar-101611044076280.html
19-01-2021||NA||LIVE: SC-appointed committee can't resolve crisis over farm laws says Sukhbir Badal||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the three new farm laws will hold its first meeting in Delhi today. The panel will hold an internal consultation over the contentious laws which has prompted farmers to hit streets for almost 55 days now. As per the top court's order, the panel is required to send the report in two months.On Monday, the Centre postponed the tenth round of talks between its representatives and farmers to January 20. Earlier it was scheduled for today.As the ninth round of talks between the central government and farmer unions on January 15 remained inconclusive, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said the unions have been asked to form informal groups among themselves and submit a draft to the government regarding their demands. Tomar had assured the agitating farmers that government will their demands with an "open mind".Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:SC-appointed committee can't resolve crisis over farm laws: Sukhbir BadalShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday claimed the Supreme Court-appointed committee could not play any constructive role in resolving the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre following the latter's refusal to accept peasants' demand of repealing the farm laws. He also said that 'kisan shakti' had the power to "wipe out" the BJP. Badal was speaking to the media after holding ward-level meetings in Nawanshahr, Banga and Phagwara. The committee formed by the apex court could not play any constructive role in resolving the crisis following the central government's refusal to repeal the three agricultural laws, he said.NCP chief, Maha CM to take part in protest against farm lawsMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar will take part in a protest to be staged here in support of the farmers agitating against Centre's three new farm laws on borders of New Delhi, state Minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday.Some farmers' organisations have planned to hold protests in Mumbai from January 23 to January 25. "Sharad Pawar will take part in the protest to be held at Azad Maidan (in south Mumbai) on January 25. The NCP has opposed the farm laws. The chief minister and leaders of the ruling MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) will also take part," said Malik, who is the national spokesperson of the NCP.Panel members outlines 'challenge' ahead of discussionsBiggest challenge before panel is to convince farmers to speak to us and share; We'll make all possible efforts: Member Anil GhanwatSC-appointed panel member says it will be one of primary objectives to convince farmers to speak to the members and share their concerns, report PTI.First meet with farmers on Jan 21: Anil GhanwatIt has been decided that the first meet with farmers will be held on Jan 21st. Physical meeting will be held with those organisations who want to meet us in person. Video conferencing will be held with those who can't come to us: Anil Ghanwat, member of SC-formed committee'Tragedy unfolding today in country', says Rahul Gandhi on protest over farm laws"There is tragedy unfolding today in country, govt wants to ignore issue & misinform the country. I'm not going to speak about farmers alone as it is only part of tragedy. It's important for youngsters. This is not about present but about your Future," saysCongress leader Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi releases a booklet about farm lawsThe book released by Gandhi in Delhi higlights the pitaflls in the contentious legislation."There is tragedy unfolding today in country, govt wants to ignore issue & misinform the country. I'm not going to speak about farmers alone as it is only part of tragedy. It's important for youngsters. This is not about present but about your Future," said Rahul Gandhi.We stand by farmers of this country: DK Shivakumar"We stand by farmers of this country. Supreme Court has stayed the laws. They shouldn't stay but scrap it. This is what Congress demands. The farmers' demand is justified. On behalf of Congress party, we are holding a big protest tomorrow to support them," said DK Shivkumar, Congress.Farm laws will go back the same route it came from: Farmers' unionBharatiya Kisan Union spokersperson, Rakesh Tikait said noone from the agitation will be participating in the meeting of SC panel. "We're not going (to first meeting of SC-formed committee). Nobody from the agitation approached Court. Govt brought Bill through Ordinance, it was tabled in the House. It'll go back the same route it came from," he also said, ANI reported.Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blockedThe traffic situation at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and at the Delhi-Noida border remained the same on Tuesday as vehicular movement on the carriageway going towards Delhi continued to be blocked by farmer groups. Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continued to remain completely blocked as they have been since November 26 because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Read moreProtests enter 55th day todaySC panel on farm laws to begin work on January 19A committee appointed by the Supreme Court to scrutinise three agricultural laws that have prompted farmers to stage a months-long protest will meet on January 19 for its first round of internal consultations, a member of the panel said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-19-2021-101611018411493.html
19-01-2021||India||After row, key farm leader says will not meet political parties||One prominent leader who is part of the platform of farm unions leading the ongoing agitation against a set of agricultural laws appeared to spell out a separate agenda for the protests, including talking to some opposition political parties, even as other unions say they want to keep the protests apolitical. He, however, backtracked later on Monday and offered a written assurance not to meet any party in future.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of nearly 400 farm groups leading the stir, said that efforts by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni to organise an “all-party meeting” on the farm laws were not authorised by it, and did not figure in its official agenda.Just hours later, Chaduni, in a written statement to the SKM, said his meeting with the political leaders was a personal initiative to strengthen the agitation. The SKM accepted his clarification, a statement by the farm unions read.The farm unions are on a strike since November to demand the scrapping of three contentious farm laws. The unions say the laws will hurt their livelihoods. A team of 41 representatives of the SKM has been participating in negotiations with the Union government. Chaduni also has been a part of the delegation.“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha disassociates itself from the activities of Gurnam Singh Chaduni. His decision for an all-party meeting was never approved or authorised. It is his personal activity,” said Hannan Mollah, a key member of the Morcha’s “general body”, earlier in the day.On January 17, Chaduni, an influential farm leader in Haryana and Punjab, met leaders of the opposition parties, including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal in Delhi in an attempt to forge a larger political alliance against the laws.According to Mollah, farm unions unanimously decided to keep their agitation “apolitical” and therefore Chaduni’s move was “not acceptable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-row-key-farm-leader-says-will-not-meet-political-parties-101611015383643.html
19-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC refuses to step in on Republic Day tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to “strengthen the hands” of the Centre in stopping a proposed Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi by farmers protesting against three contentious agricultural laws, and asked why the government was seeking its nod on a law-and-order issue.Declining to pass any order on a plea by Delhi Police, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said it was not for the court to remind the authorities of their policing power by passing an order.“Does the Union of India need Supreme Court to tell what powers it has under the Police Act? Why do you want us to tell what powers you have?” the bench asked Attorney General KK Venugopal, who implored the court to issue a prohibitory order on Delhi Police’s application to injunct farmers’ groups from “disrupting” Republic Day celebrations by taking out a tractor rally or any other processions on January 26.Venugopal, who represented the Centre, said it was an extraordinary situation, adding “one word from this court will strengthen the hands of the government”. The bench remained unmoved. “Does the Supreme Court say as to what are the powers of police and how they will exercise them? We are not going to tell you what to do. All that we can tell you is that you can invoke all your powers under the law to maintain law and order. This is your job.”The bench also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran.It further observed: “We cannot come across an instance where first the court issued an order prohibiting (protests) and then the authorities said something. It is always the other way round. We have told you earlier too that we cannot be the first authority to determine this. You have enough power under the Police Act to determine who should or should not be allowed entry, what terms and conditions are to be enforced, and what should be the numbers.”At this, Venugopal said that the government was seeking for an order on this issue since the apex court has taken the charge of the matter. The bench, however, retorted: “No, no. We have not taken charge of this matter at all. We have dealt with only one issue. The intervention of this court has been grossly misunderstood. We have not taken charge of the entire issue except one. And we will hear that issue sometime later.” The AG endeavoured to persuade the court, but it made its position clear: “We are not going to tell you what is your power. Why should we tell you what you should do?” The bench then clarified that it would focus chiefly on the issues relating to farm laws, and adjourned the matter for a hearing on Wednesday before the same combination of judges, who, on January 12, stayed the implementation of the three laws and formed a four-member committee to discuss the legislation with both farmers and the government.Apart from the CJI, justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, comprised that bench.The bench asked all lawyers to be present on Wednesday when it may take a call on filling up the vacancy in its panel, created by the recusal by one of the members — farm leader Bhupinder Singh Mann — last week. The committee is left with three members — agricultural economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, and Anil Ghanwat, president, Shetkari Sanghatana. The members are scheduled to meet for the first time on Tuesday, though farm unions have said they will not negotiate with the committee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi police, told the court that when the matter is taken up on Wednesday, the Centre would make detailed arguments on the dignity attached to the constitutional ceremony of Republic Day parade. “But what can be a constitutional question about a parade?” shot back the CJI.The unions are planning a rally on January 26 comprising tens of thousands of farmers to push for the repeal of the three laws. The proposed route covers a 60km stretch and passes through Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, covering areas as Peeragarhi, Janakpuri and Munirka. The unions say their march will commence only after the official military parade on Rajpath ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-refuses-to-step-in-on-r-day-tractor-rally-101611001634211.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel to meet farmers on Jan 21||A member of the committee appointed by the Supreme Court to examine the three farm laws, which have triggered protests by farmers, said it will meet farmers on Thursday, after holding its first round of internal consultations, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The news agency cited Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the committee, as saying that they will hold talks with farmers' organisations which want to meet them in person. "Video conferencing will be held with those who can't come to us," Ghanwat said, according to ANI."If the government wants to come and speak with us, we welcome it. We will hear the government too. The biggest challenge is to convince the agitating farmers to come and speak with us, we will try our level best," he added.Farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi's borders to demand the scrapping of three contentious farm laws, which they say will hurt their livelihoods. The Supreme Court had on January 12 suspended the pro-reforms farm laws approved by Parliament in September 2020 and also appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws. The court had named economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi and farm activists Bhupinder Singh Mann and Ghanwat as members of the panel. Mann opted out of the committee a day later, citing the “interests of farmers”.Also read | After row, key farm leader says will not meet political partiesGhanwat, a member of the now three-member panel, had told HT on Monday that the committee will start deliberations on Tuesday, which will include framing of issues before the committee. “In our first meeting, we will take note of our terms of reference and chalk out processes we will follow,” Ghanwat said. He said it was up to the Supreme Court to appoint a member in place of Mann, who has recused himself but the committee’s work would continue.Ghanwat has said the committee will examine the three farm laws and draw up a list of stakeholders for consultations, including farm unions, representatives of agribusinesses, scholars, scientists and even the government. “Our basic terms of reference are to look into the laws and consult stakeholders with the objective of addressing grievances of farmers,” Ghanwat, who heads the Shetkari Sangathan, a farm organisation from Maharashtra that advocates pro-technology and pro-reform agricultural policies, had said.Also read | Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm lawsThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions leading protests against the laws, has however said its members would not appear before the committee. Farm unions have also said that all members of the top court-appointed committee had previously publicly praised the laws that farmers want to be scrapped.The agriculturists have been protesting against the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-to-meet-farmers-on-jan-21-101611048447883.html
19-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to release booklet to highlight pitfalls of farm laws today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will release a booklet on 'pitfalls' of the three farm laws passed by the Central government in the last monsoon session of the Parliament, on Tuesday.Gandhi will release the booklet during a press conference at the party headquarters in Delhi today.Party sources on January 15 said the booklet has been prepared to highlight the drawbacks of the new farm reform laws and their impact on farmers in the country.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here "A majority of farm labourers are SC-ST and OBC and these laws also affect them. The booklet will provide detailed information on how these laws will affect the farmers and at the same time how it will impact government purchase and thus the public distribution system too," a leader involved in the process of finalising the booklets told ANI.Congress has been continuously demanding a repeal of the three laws and has also called a nationwide protest and a "Raj Bhavan Gherao" in all the states.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-release-booklet-to-highlight-pitfalls-of-farm-laws-today-101611040665925.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on Tuesday||The Supreme Court-appointed committee to scrutinise three new farm laws is scheduled to hold its first meeting with members on Tuesday. The meeting will take place at Pusa campus in New Delhi, its member Anil Ghanwat said on Monday."We are going to meet tomorrow. Only members will meet to discuss the terms of reference and decide the future course of action," Ghanwat told news agency PTI before boarding a flight to Delhi yesterday.Ghanwat leads the Shetkari Sangathan, a farm organisation from Maharashtra that advocates pro-technology and pro-reform agricultural policies.The Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for over 50 days now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, recused himself from the four-member committee last week. Ghanwat said it was up to the Supreme Court to appoint a member in place of Mann.Apart from Ghanwat, agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the other members of the panel.The panel will hear views of farmers across the country, both who support and oppose the new farm laws, and submit a report within two months to the apex court.According to the Supreme Court’s instructions, the committee had to meet within 10 days of its constitution and submit a report to the apex court in two months.The protesting farmers have said that they won't appear before the committee as all its members had previously publicly praised the laws that they want scrapped.So far, nine rounds of talks have been held between the government and the protesters, but no solution has emerged to end the impasse. The 10th round of talks was on Monday pushed back by a day to January 20, with the Centre saying both sides want to resolve the stalemate at the earliest but it was getting delayed due to involvement of people of other ideologies.Farmers want the three farm laws repealed but the government has rejected the demand. The farmers say that the pro-reform farm laws will hurt their livelihoods, but the government has asserted that the new laws are in the interest of the farming community.The laws in question are the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-on-farm-laws-to-hold-first-meeting-on-tuesday-101611022304429.html
