20-01-2021||India||Centre proposes to suspend farm laws for 1.5 years, next meeting on January 22||The 10th meeting between the Centre and protesting farmers resulted in what can be termed as a breakthrough in the ongoing impasse, as the Centre has proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 1.5 to two years. The farmers, however, want a complete withdrawal of the laws as a mere suspension of the laws for some period of time will not bring about any change, farmer leaders said on Wednesday after the 10th round of talks concluded. The next round of meeting will be held on January 22.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, however, is hopeful of a resolution in the next meeting. "I am happy that farmer unions have taken our proposal seriously and said that they would consider it tomorrow and consider their decision on January 22. I feel that the talks are progressing in the right direction and there is a possibility of finding a resolution soon," he said."Talks were held in a cordial atmosphere despite some 'naram-garam' moments," the minister said adding that it will be a victory for Indian democracy the day the protest ends.Click here for live updates of farmers' protestHere is where the farmers' protest stands now:1. This is for the first time the government has offered keep the farm laws suspended for 1.5 to 2 years. What the Centre conveyed earlier was contrary to this spirit. Union ministers had earlier urged farmers to let the laws be implemented for a few years and then decided.2. The apex court, on the other hand, mentioned staying the implementation of the laws until the stalemate gets resolved several times and in its last verdict it stayed the laws.3. The government on Wednesday once again offered to amend the laws as the 10th round of meeting started. The leaders stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the laws and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP.4. In the first two sessions of the day, there was no breakthrough as the discussion went on the beaten track of amending the laws.5. Then the centre proposed to keep the three farm laws suspended for a fixed time period of one year or so and form a committee comprising of farmer union leaders and government representatives.6. The ministers proposed that the laws would remain suspended till the committee gives its report and urged farmer unions to suspend their agitation till that time.7. Farmer leaders, however, did not consider this as any breakthrough. But some unions said a final decision would be taken after their own internal consultations on Thursday.8. The Supreme Court committee, set up to find a solution to the impasse, held its first meeting on Tuesday. It will start meeting various stakeholders from Thursday. It has been given a deadline of two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-major-breakthrough-centre-proposes-to-suspend-laws-for-2-years-next-meeting-on-january-22-101611152130487.html
20-01-2021||India||'Govt has to repeal farm laws': Farmers' union ahead of tenth round of talks with Centre||The government has to repeal the three farm laws, one of the farmers' unions asserted on Wednesday ahead of the 10th round of talks with the Centre. "The government has to make legislation on Minimum Support Price and repeal the three farm laws. Our protest is against the government and the corporate system," said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) which is spearheading the movement.Leaders of all 40 farm unions which are taking part in the protest will meet three cabinet ministers of the government for talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse.In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also assured that the government will hear the proposal with an "open mind".Tens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are agitating against three farm laws enacted by the government in September last year. The central government has projected the laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these laws will remain and have offered to make amendments into the law.The contentious farm laws are farmers are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the legislation till further orders. It also formed a committee to scrutinise the laws and resolve the stand-off which is continuing for the last 56 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-to-repeal-farm-laws-farmers-union-ahead-of-10th-round-of-talks-101611129206206.html
20-01-2021||India||‘For police to decide’: SC won’t rule on plea against farmers’ tractor march||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to pass any order on the plea seeking injunction against the tractor rally proposed by agitating farmers on Republic Day, saying that it was a matter for the police to decide, following which the Centre withdrew its plea."We've said that it is for the police to decide. We are not going to pass the orders. You are the authority to take action," Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told the Centre.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for eight farm unions seeking to take out the tractor rally, told the court that the farmers have no intention to breach peace. However, Attorney General KK Venugopal argued, “5000 tractors are coming into the city. It certainly can't be maintained on roads. They will go everywhere. Bhushan is well intentioned that peace will be maintained. In Karnal, the farmers destroyed the pandal. There was a law and order situation and CM Haryana could not meet them. The police will take a call.”The court told the farmers to assure the citizens of Delhi of complete peace and told the Centre to ask authorities how the march can be peaceful. “These are matters purely in the domain of the executive,” the top court said.Later in the day, a group of farm union leaders will meet top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws, a union leader was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Slamming the criticism against the members of the panel it appointed to discuss the matter, the Supreme Court asked, “Where is the question of bias when the committee is not given any power of adjudication?” The top court also issued a notice to the Centre on an application by Bhartiya Kisan Party for filling up vacancy in the four-member Committee after Bhupinder Singh Mann of BKU recused himself from it.The top court had, on January 12, stayed the implementation of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers who have been protesting for 56 days now want a complete roll-back of the legislation, however, the government has ruled out that possibility and has offered to make amendments. .As nine rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers have remained inconclusive, they will meet later this afternoon for the 10th round of talks in an effort to end the impasse over the three contentious agricultural laws enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-for-police-to-decide-sc-refuses-to-rule-on-plea-against-farmers-proposed-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-centre-withdraws-plea-101611127531705.html
20-01-2021||India||Start on clean slate: Chidambaram urges government ahead of meeting with farmers||Ahead of the tenth round of talks between the Centre and agitating farmers, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged the ruling dispensation to start afresh and keep the past aside.Nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating farmer unions without any concrete resolution, while the tenth round is scheduled to be held on Wednesday."'Start on a clean slate' is the only way forward," Chidambaram tweeted."The government should offer to begin afresh and hold talks on what needs to be done and what needs to be avoided," he said.The Congress leader also wondered how one could expect a positive outcome when the government refuses to keep the past aside."How can we expect any positive outcome when government refuses to keep the past aside and start on a clean state," he said on Twitter.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting on Delhi borders for almost two months against the Centre's three new farm laws enacted in September last year.The farmers have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-on-clean-slate-chidambaram-urges-government-ahead-of-meeting-with-farmers-101611125112542.html
20-01-2021||India||World witnessing live example of Guru Gobind Singh's teachings in farmers 'satyagraha': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday paid homage to Guru Gobind Singh on his birth anniversary and said the world is witnessing live example of the 10th Sikh Guru's teachings as farmers continue their "satyagraha".Paying tributes to the Sikh Guru on his 354th birth anniversary, Gandhi said his heroic life has taught "us the value of sacrifice in the fight for justice"."As our farmer brothers-sisters continue their Satyagraha, the world witnesses live example of his teachings," the former Congress chief said in a tweet while extending his greetings to people on 'Prakash Utsav'.Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh Guru, was a spiritual master, warrior, poet and philosopher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-seeing-guru-gobind-singh-s-teachings-in-farmers-satyagraha-rahul-gandhi-101611124868643.html
20-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers arrive to meet Delhi Police, say ‘cops won't face any disturbance due to tractor march on Jan 26||A group of farmer leaders - part of the protesters who are agitating against three central farm laws - arrived at Vigyan Bhawan on Wednesday to hold a meeting with the Delhi Police.During the meeting, the leaders of the farmer unions will hold a discussion regarding the route and arrangements for a tractor rally that they want to take out on the Republic Day. "We've told them that we'll hold tractor march at Ring Road, they should accept it. We'll have further info after meet but they won't face any disturbance due to it," said Gurnam Singh Chaduni of Bharatiya Kisan Union, according to news agency ANI.According to a report by PTI, the joint commissioner of police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting.The Delhi Police have moved Supreme Court seeking an injunction against the rally. The hearing is scheduled to take place on Wednesday.Tens of thousands of farmers are agitating against the three farm laws for the last 56 days on various borders of the national capital.Leaders of all 40 farm unions which are taking part in the protest will meet three cabinet ministers of the government for the tenth round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse.Farmers are agitating against Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-arrive-to-meet-delhi-police-say-cops-won-t-face-any-disturbance-due-to-tractor-march-on-jan-26-101611122661988.html
20-01-2021||India||Centre has great opportunity on Republic Day to repeal farm laws: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav has said that the Centre should accept all demands of the protesting farmers and repeal the new farm laws this Republic Day as it presented a great opportunity to show nationalism and commitment to the Constitution."On January 26, the Republic Day, the Centre should accept all demands of the farmers and withdraw the new farm laws. The BJP government has a great opportunity on January 26. The BJP government can show its nationalism, love for the Constitution by accepting their demands. There cannot be anything better than this," he said while addressing a press conference at the party's state headquarters in Lucknow on Tuesday.The press conference was held on the sidelines of an event where several national and state youth award winners joined the party. Some of them are the ones who won the UP youth icon awards last year."BJP people don't know about agriculture. Their people are not farmers. Samajwadi Party people are farmers. We understand them. We are with them and will stand by them. They have our support. BJP does not support farmers, it (BJP) only supports the businesses related to farming," the SP president said.Addressing the youth who joined the party, Akhilesh said the SP was a youth and farmer-oriented party. He recollected that the party on January 12— the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand—had held youth connect interactive programmes across the state."The youth are distressed under this government. Unemployment is rising. The way politicisation of educational institutions has started happening in the country is something that has never happened before. The NSA is being imposed on the youth when they raise their voices of dissent. Quality of education is falling, the fee and the cost of education is rising," he added."Without creating or consolidating online education infrastructure and backup, the government pushed students for online education. Most of the students suffered all the more because of the digital divide," the former UP chief minister said.Also Read: 3.75 lakh youth got jobs in UP since 2017: CM AdityanathAttacking the state government, he said: "UP is number one in poor education quality, poor health index, rape incidents, crime against minors, communal riots and fake encounters. The state is number one even in reprimands from the judiciary. It is such a state where serious crime cases were against those who became chief minister and deputy chief minister."He further alleged that the state government was good at taking credit for previous governments’ work, changing names of projects and places and in political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-great-opportunity-on-republic-day-to-repeal-farm-laws-akhilesh-yadav-101611118755746.html
20-01-2021||India||Farm laws stir: Supreme Court-appointed panel to set up portal for farmers||The Supreme Court-appointed committee will set-up a portal for farmers where they can share their views about the contentious farm laws. This was decided after the first meeting of the panel on Tuesday."Even an individual farmer can submit his/her views on the portal to be notified soon," said Anil Ghanawat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana and one of the members of the committee.The committee is keen to understand the opinion of all concerned on the subject so that it can give suggestions which will definitely be in the interests of the farmers of India, Ghanwat said. Soon, it will also send invitations to the farmers' unions and associations to discuss their views on farm laws.In its meeting on Tuesday, the panel discussed the roadmap of activities for two months to prepare their recommendations after discussion with farmers, their unions and other stakeholders.Other two members of the panel - Dr Ashok Gulati, former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, Dr Pramod Joshi, former director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute - were also part of the meeting. Bhupinder Mann, the fourth member of the committee, has already recused himself.On January 12, the top court had stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which tens of thousands of farmers are protesting at various Delhi borders, till further orders. It also constituted a committee to scrutinise the laws and resolve the stand-off between the government and the farmers. While the government is in favour of the committee formation, farmers say they will not hold any talks with the panel as the members are already pro-reforms.The protests are continuing for over 50 days now and the government has held nine rounds of talks so far but failed to bring any resolution to the matter. The farmers are adamant on the demand to repeal the laws which the government has refused and is firm on their offer to amend the legislation. The next round of talks will take place today.In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting. The Union agriculture minister also assured that the government will hear the proposal with an "open mind."Farmers are agitating against Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-supreme-court-appointed-panel-to-set-up-portal-for-farmers-101611113597982.html
20-01-2021||India||Police urge farmers to shift R-Day tractor rally to KMP e-way||Police officers from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana met farmers at Singhu border on Tuesday, urging them to either cancel the proposed tractor rally on the Republic Day or organised it on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway. The farmers, however, turned down the proposal but assured the police that it would be a peaceful protest and stay confined to only the outer Ring Road in Delhi.While special commissioner (intelligence) Deependra Pathak led the police team from Delhi, seven leaders of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal, represented the farmers.Since no consensus could be reached on issue, another meeting has been scheduled on Wednesday morning, a senior Delhi Police officer who was present in the meeting said, requesting anonymity.“We told the farmers representatives that the tractor rally may lead to law and order issues and traffic and security chaos and asked them to cancel it. Since they refused, we suggested that the rally could be shifted to the KMP expressway. They remained adamant on taking out their rally for 50-60 kilometres on Delhi’s outer ring road,” the officer said.This was the second meeting between the police and leaders of farmer unions since Monday, when the Supreme Court refused to pass any order on the Delhi Police’s plea for stopping the tractor rally. On a plea by Delhi Police, the top court had said that entry of farmers into Delhi is a law and order problem and any decision in this regard should be taken by the Delhi Police.Tuesday’s meeting was held at a farmhouse in Delhi, nearly a kilometre away from the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been agitating against the three contentious farm laws. The farmers’ agitation entered 55th day on Tuesday.“The farmer leaders in fact asked the police officers if they would be granting permission for their Kisan Tractor Parade on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road about which the officers said that they were not the deciding authority. The officers showed their concerns regarding law and order, traffic, and security issues that our tractor rally may cause. However, they were assured that our rally will be peaceful and it will not disrupt the official Republic Day parade,” said Harpreet Singh Kahlon, convener of Krantikari Kisan Union.On Tuesday, the farmers also shared the route map of their proposed tractor rally and said that the parade will touch all the borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh would be participating in the tractor rally, they said.“Our parade will be similar to that of the national parade where tableaux of different states are shown. The farmers of different states would be showcasing their traditional style of farming and agricultural tools they use in agriculture. All tractors will have the national flag and our rally will start after the parade on Rajpath is concluded,” said Parmeet Singh, a farmer from Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-urge-farmers-to-shift-r-day-tractor-rally-to-kmp-eway-101611089573981.html
20-01-2021||India||‘What interest do we have’: Supreme Court's clear warning on farm laws panel||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took "serious objection" to farmers' criticism of the committee it formed to resolve impasse over farm laws. It also warned the farmers against casting aspersions on the court."We have serious objections on people whom we have appointed are being called names and that this court has interest in appointing them. What interest do we have other than decide on constitutionality? We will not expose people whom we appointed to be maligned this way based on public opinion by majority," the three-judge bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said while hearing a petition against farmers' proposed tractor rally on Republic Day."No power has been given to committee members to adjudicate things, they have to report to us. Where is the question of bias? If you don't want to appear before committee, don't appear but don't malign or brand anyone like this, don't cast aspersions on the court," it further said.The court also issued a notice to the Centre on an application by Bhartiya Kisan Party for filling up vacancy in the four-member committee created by resignation of Bhupinder Singh Mann of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Mann was the only farmer leader appointed by the apex court to resolve the nearly two-month-long farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders.In a statement, the BKU president had said that will always stand with farmers.The top court had, on January 12, stayed the implementation of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers who have been protesting against these laws for 56 days now want them repealed, but the government has categorically said no to that.So far, nine rounds of talks have happened between the government and the protesting farmers but the impasse is still continuing. A tenth round will take place today afternoon.The contentious farm laws are farmers are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-cast-aspersion-supreme-court-s-warning-to-farmers-101611129321303.html
20-01-2021||India||‘For police to decide’: SC won’t rule on plea against farmers’ tractor march||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to pass any order on the plea seeking injunction against the tractor rally proposed by agitating farmers on Republic Day, saying that it was a matter for the police to decide, following which the Centre withdrew its plea."We've said that it is for the police to decide. We are not going to pass the orders. You are the authority to take action," Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told the Centre.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for eight farm unions seeking to take out the tractor rally, told the court that the farmers have no intention to breach peace. However, Attorney General KK Venugopal argued, “5000 tractors are coming into the city. It certainly can't be maintained on roads. They will go everywhere. Bhushan is well intentioned that peace will be maintained. In Karnal, the farmers destroyed the pandal. There was a law and order situation and CM Haryana could not meet them. The police will take a call.”The court told the farmers to assure the citizens of Delhi of complete peace and told the Centre to ask authorities how the march can be peaceful. “These are matters purely in the domain of the executive,” the top court said.Later in the day, a group of farm union leaders will meet top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws, a union leader was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Slamming the criticism against the members of the panel it appointed to discuss the matter, the Supreme Court asked, “Where is the question of bias when the committee is not given any power of adjudication?” The top court also issued a notice to the Centre on an application by Bhartiya Kisan Party for filling up vacancy in the four-member Committee after Bhupinder Singh Mann of BKU recused himself from it.The top court had, on January 12, stayed the implementation of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers who have been protesting for 56 days now want a complete roll-back of the legislation, however, the government has ruled out that possibility and has offered to make amendments. .As nine rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers have remained inconclusive, they will meet later this afternoon for the 10th round of talks in an effort to end the impasse over the three contentious agricultural laws enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-for-police-to-decide-sc-refuses-to-rule-on-plea-against-farmers-proposed-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-centre-withdraws-plea-101611127531705.html
