21-01-2021||India||Farmers 'reject' Centre's proposal to put laws on hold for 1.5 years||A day after the Centre proposed to put the three agricultural laws on hold for at least 1.5 years, farmers union on Thursday rejected the proposal and said they want nothing but a complete withdrawal of all the three contentious agriculture laws. "In a full general body meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the Govt yesterday was rejected. A full repeal of three laws and enacting legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is the umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions, said after discussing the Centre's proposal. However, Bharatiya Kisan Union told ANI that the meeting was still going on.For the first time in the month-long stand-off between farmers and the Centre, the latter proposed to keep the laws on hold for the time being. The time could be utilised to further the talks between the Centre and farmers until a common ground is reached. After Wednesday's meeting, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also expressed hope and said a solution is possible on January 22, the 11th round of meeting between the two parties.Farmers' protest: No nod for Republic Day rally; SC panel begins consultationDuring the meeting on Wednesday with the ministers, several union leaders objected to the proposal saying postponing the implementation of the laws would bring no solution. What they want is a complete withdrawal of all the three laws and a legal guarantee of the MSP system. The leaders, however, said the final decision on Centre's proposal will be taken only after discussing it in details.The unions held their discussion on Thursday and said they will not be accepting the Centre's proposal. With this, the situation again returns to ground zero which the ball again in Centre's court to decide its further course of action to address the farmers' issues. The meeting started in the afternoon and went on till late in the evening. Even after Samyukt Kisan Morcha issued a statement dismissing the Centre's proposal, Bharatiya Kisan Union said the final decision was still pending.The implementation of the three laws was put on hold by a Supreme Court order passed early this month. The apex court also set up a committee which will find a solution to the ongoing impasse after consulting with all stakeholders. The SC-appointed committee held its first discussion on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-reject-centre-s-proposal-to-put-laws-on-hold-for-1-5-years-101611240895639.html
21-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: No nod for Republic Day rally; SC panel begins consultation||The panel appointed by the Supreme Court to find a solution to the impasse after studying the farm laws and talking to the stakeholders interacted with 10 farmer organisations on Thursday, beginning its consultation process. The committee will have to submit its report within two months and until that time the implementation of the farm laws will be stayed, the Supreme Court had ordered.Meanwhile, farmers who are protesting at Delhi borders met Delhi Police officials on Thursday over permission for tractor march on Delhi's Outer Ring Road.The protest of the farmers against the three contentious laws began on November 26 and is still going strong. Several parallel developments have taken place in the last few days.1. The talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre is going on. The 10th round of meeting was held on Wednesday in which the Centre has proposed to hold the implementation of the laws for 1.5 to 2 years. In the next meeting on January 22, farmers' union leaders will reply to the Centre after discussing among themselves.2. The consultation of the SC-appointed committee will be going on separately from the talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre. This committee is supposed to talk to as many as farmers organisations possible, not only the protesting ones. In fact, the protesting unions earlier refused to attend any meeting of this panel as they said the members are supporters of the farmers' laws.3. On Thursday, the panel virtually interacted with 10 farmers' organisation from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. Other states were Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.4. Currently, there are three members in the panel — president of Maharasthra-based Shetkari Sanghatana Anil Ghanwat and agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann has recused himself from the committee.5. The panel issued a statement, which said, "The farmers' unions participated in the discussion and gave their frank opinion including suggestions to improve the implementation of Acts."6. Protesting farmers are planning a peaceful tractor march on Republic Day on the Outer Ring Road. This case too reached the Supreme Court which said it was Delhi Police's decision whether they would allow the march or not.7. Delhi Police has not granted the permission to hold tractor march on Outer Ring Road. Police officers tried to convince them to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway, which the farmers didn't accept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-nod-for-republic-day-rally-sc-panel-begins-consultation-101611230836077.html
21-01-2021||Patna||Bihar seeks Nafed’s help for procurement of pulses, maize at MSP||The Bihar government is planning to rope in national agriculture cooperative marketing federation (Nafed) to facilitate procurement of pulses and maize on the minimum support price (MSP) from the farmers in Bihar.Nafed had discontinued procurement of maize, pulses and oilseeds from farmers after the state government froze its account operations, following the tax dispute in procurement of paddy on behalf of the food corporation of India (FCI) in 2012.Secretary, food and consumer protection department, Vinay Kumar has led several rounds of talks with Nafed officials in this regard. The department is likely to send a proposal to the Central government soon to finalise the procurement modalities. “The department aims to launch procurement of pulses from this season, if everything goes as per the plan,” said the secretary.Nafed branch manager, Patna, Yatendra Singh said that the federation was capable of procuring farm produce from the farmers, if the state government demonstrated its willingness. “As per the talks with the state government officials, Nafed is readying its network to purchase maize and pulses in the upcoming season,” said Singh.Nafed has supplied about 1.36 lakh metric tonne of chana dal (split chickpea lentils) to Bihar government under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyann Ann Yojna (PMGKAY) for its distribution to the poor during the pandemic phase last year.Officials said that the farmers of Bihar were estimated to produce more than five lakh MT of pulses, despite decreasing acreage of farming area. With procurement of pulses discontinued for nearly a decade, farmers have shifted focus on cultivation of MSP assured crops like paddy and wheat. Currently, pulses are being grown on 4.39 lakh hectare as compared to 10.83 lakh hectare in 1991-92.Also Read: Bihar: Hanged in 1857, Waris Ali of Tirhut finally added to Dictionary of MartyrsMaize growing farmers of the state are also likely to benefit from the Nafed’s expected re-launch of its procurement. Last year, farmers of the Seemanchal region were compelled to sell maize at throw away prices against the MSP of ₹1850 per quintal. Sporadic protests were made across the region by the farmers against the state government’s apathy towards their demand for maize procurement.An agricultural activist Mahendra Yadav, who had filed a petition in the Patna high court to restart procurement of maize, attributed the state government’s readiness to engage with Nafed for procurement of farm produce, other than paddy and wheat, to the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national capital.“Farmers had explored all options, from democratic protests to legal recourse, to sell their maize on the MSP, but the food and consumer protection department officials refused to take any notice,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-seeks-nafed-s-help-for-procurement-of-pulses-maize-at-msp-101611221329226.html
21-01-2021||India||Paddy procurement mess in Odisha and Chhattisgarh, states blame Centre||After Chhattisgarh, Odisha government has accused the Centre of stalling the paddy procurement process in the state, resulting in many farmers having to sell their produce at a price lesser than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) fixed by the Centre or keep their produce at marketing yards.A farmer, Ramcharan Patel, of Sambalpur district, has been keeping a vigil during the wintry nights on his 200 quintals of paddy, which has been lying unsold at the Jamankira purchase center run by the state government, where about 270 farmers take turns to protect their paddy bags. Around 16,000 tonnes have been stacked at the centre. At the neighbouring Demrinmunda marketing yard, another 5,900 tonnes of paddy is waiting to be procured.“I have no option but to wait for procurement to start as the price being offered by private players is very less than the MSP. I will lose up to ₹500 per quintal,” he said, urging the state’s food minister Ranendra Pratap Swain to re-start the procurement. However, some farmers have sold their harvest below the MSP as the moisture level was increasing in the produce, thereby deteriorating its quality.Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh had a bumper paddy harvest this year due to good rains. In Odisha, experts said the state did not revise its ceiling of paddy procurement of 19 quintals for every acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals for every acre of non-irrigated land. “As a result, thousands of farmers were left with unsold paddy which they had to sell at half the price of the MSP fixed by the government,” said Ashok Pradhan, farmer leader of western Odisha.Paddy procurement has been stopped by the government at many places, especially in the rice bowl area of western Odisha, forcing the farmers to either store the produce at their homes or to sell them at low prices.In a letter to the Union food minister, Piyush Goyal, Odisha’s food minister, Swain, blamed the Centre for the present crisis saying it has failed to pay a pending subsidy amount of ₹6,039 crore towards paddy procurement.“The Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation, which does paddy procurement, has so far borrowed a staggering sum of ₹15,000 crore to run the programme due to non-release of subsidy by the Department of Food and Public Distribution. As all resources including the sanctioned limit of bank finances has been exhausted by OSCSC, the pending subsidy may be released urgently as further paddy procurement from farmers will be severely affected," he wrote.The Odisha minister also took exception to the Food Corporation of India's (FCI) missive to the Odisha government for limiting the delivery of surplus parboiled (partially boiled in husk) rice of Odisha to the extent of 50% of the last year’s delivery and not to accept any surplus in the form of parboiled rice during the Rabi season of the current Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21.“Odisha’s own consumption under the PDS (public distribution system) and other welfare schemes currently comes to 24 lakh MT (metric tonne) of rice. The estimated surplus that needs to be evacuated by the FCI from the State in the current kharif season would be in the range of 30 lakh MT,” Swain said.The BJP has, however, blamed the Biju Janata Dal government for the mess.Bargarh BJP MP Suresh Pujari, who would spearhead the protest on Thursday at Sambalpur, blamed the state government for farmers' grievances. “Farmers are being forced to sell their paddy much below the minimum support price fixed by the Centre at ₹1,868 per quintal as the state has been unable to procure. The minister had promised that criminal cases will be filed if paddy is procured below the MSP at any place. However, no such action has been taken anywhere,” said Pujari.State Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare department had recently claimed that it has procured 35.06 lakh tonne of paddy during the current kharif marketing season, 22% cent higher than that of the procurement made in the corresponding period last year. About 28.81 lakh tonne of paddy was procured last year.In Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had accused the Centre of reducing paddy procurement target. “The Centre agreed on 60 lakh (MT) procurement of paddy from Chhattisgarh but has reduced it to 24 lakh(MT) putting additional financial burden on us,” Baghel said.The CM said it was responsibility of the Centre to procure its quota of grains from the state at the MSP and pay the state accordingly. “It is a conspiracy to disrupt paddy procurement in the state,” said state Congress president Mohan Markam.However, former chief minister and BJP leader Raman Singh hit back saying the paddy procurement has stopped in the state due to mismanagement of the state government. “They (the government) are blaming the Centre to hide its shortcomings,” he said.Jharkhand also faced paddy procurement delays as it wanted the Centre to increase its quota because of the bumper crop, but it did not happen. “Due to the bumper crop this year, we are expecting better procurement this season compared to previous season. We will procure whatever we can,” said Jharkhand food minister, Rameshwar Oraon.The issues in paddy procurement comes at the time when the Central government is holding negotiations with about 40 farmer bodies on three farm laws and a legal MSP guarantee. The 10th round of talk on Thursday between the Central government and farmer bodies remained inclusive.(With inputs from Sanjoy Dey in Ranchi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-mess-in-odisha-and-chhattisgarh-states-blame-centre-101611213333774.html
21-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra varsity teachers’ unions to march against new farm and labour laws||The ongoing farmers’ protests against the three Central farm laws have won the support of the all India teachers’ union including several teachers’ unions in the state of Maharashtra, who will hold a sit-in protest at Azad Maidan on January 24 and a march to the governor’s house on January 25 to extend solidarity with the farmers.“The nation is witnessing the ongoing historic struggle of lakhs of farmers near Delhi since the past two months. The All India Organisation of Teachers and the non-teaching employees of education institutes in the country have expressed their solidarity with this struggle. They have called for a nation-wide protest of all trade unions on January 23 and we too will support the struggle,” said the joint statement by a host of teacher unions including Shikshak Bharti,Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisation (MFUCTO), Bombay University and College Teachers' Union (BUCTU) among others.The statement further alleges that the introduction of the National Education Policy (NEP) violates the Constitutional mandates of reservation and free and compulsory education. “This new act will systematically break the present structure of education and could also result in the closure of thousands of schools and colleges. Not only will this lead to high drop-out rates among students but also simultaneously push more teachers and non-teaching staff in ad-hoc and contractual appointments,” said a spokesperson for the teacher’s group.Also Read: Maharashtra Police will probe case against Tandav: Home minister Anil DeshmukhThe teachers demand that the government repeals the three farm laws and four labour codes apart from withdrawing the NEP. Teachers will participate in a sit-in at the Azad Maidan on January 24, which will be followed by a protest march from Azad Maidan to the Raj Bhavan on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-varsity-teachers-unions-to-march-against-new-farm-and-labour-laws-101611209427376.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel to begin consultations with farmers||The Supreme Court-appointed panel for resolving grievances concerning the newly passed farm laws will begin its consultations with the farmers’ unions from Thursday.Farm activist Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the panel, said that they have drawn up a list of categories of organisations which would be invited over the course of the consultations.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading protests against the three laws, has however said its members would not appear before the committee.According to the Supreme Court’s instructions, the committee has to submit a report to the apex court in two months.The Supreme Court had named Bharatiya Kisan Union president BS Mann, Maharashtra's Shetkeri Sangthana chief Anil Ghanwat, and economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi as the four members of the panel. However, Mann later recused himself from the committee saying that he is duty-bound to protect the interests of farmers.Earlier on Monday, Ghanwat said that the panel faces the challenge of convincing farmers’ unions representatives to come and share their concerns with them. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” Ghanwat was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Ghanwat also outlined that the panel will take the views of every stakeholder into consideration while trying to break the deadlock which has led widespread agitations at Delhi’s borders for more than eight weeks. He also added that panel members will keep their personal views on the newly passed farm laws aside while discussing means to mitigate the problems arising from the new laws. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing reports to be submitted to the Supreme Court. We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor on behalf of the government. The Supreme Court has sent us,” he said.Farmers’ have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 claiming that these laws will help multinational companies enter the agricultural sector and adversely impact farmers’ incomes. Farmers also say that these laws will affect government procurement of crop yields under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-to-begin-consultations-with-farmers-101611198957155.html
21-01-2021||NA||Highlights: 10th round of talks between farmers-Centre ends, next meet on Jan 22||The farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws entered 56th day on Wednesday. The tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Central government over the three farm laws began at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister Piyush Goyal, among others, were present at the meeting.In the last meeting, the government had asked farmers to form an informal group among themselves and submit a draft to the government regarding their demands. Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government will discuss the demands with an "open mind" in today's meeting.Meanwhile, a committee, appointed by the Supreme Court to resolve the logjam between the farmers and the government, met for the first time on Tuesday. The committee will hold discussions with farmers and farmers' bodies in the country who are both pro and against the farm laws, informed Anil Ghanwat, one of the panelists. The Committee will soon send invitations to the farmers' unions and associations to discuss their views on farm laws.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Govt proposes to suspend farm laws for 1.5 to 2 years, farmers say will discuss proposal; next round of talks on Jan 22The tenth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the central government has concluded.The government has offered to suspend the farm laws for a period of 1.5 to 2 years and move an affidavit in the Supreme Court if the farmers agree.The farmers leaders, however, have made it clear that they want the laws to be repealed and not a suspension.The next round of talks have been scheduled for January 22, 2021.The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Bhupesh BaghelNearly 17-18 lakh farmers have sold their produce. BJP is protesting... those who don't believe in the system may protest or those who couldn't sell their produce. The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelTenth round of talks between farmer unions and Centre over three farm laws beginsThe tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Centre over the three farm laws begins at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi.Tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over three farm laws to begin shortlyThe tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over the three Farm Laws to begin shortly; Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan BhawanFarmers delegation arrive at Vigyan BhawanA delegation of farmer union leaders arrive at Vigyan Bhawan for the tenth round of talks with union ministers.Farmers in Punjab head to Delhi ahead of tractor rallyFarmers assemble at Harike Pattan in Tarn Taran district in Punjab to head to Delhi, ahead of their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day.There's no attempt to destroy peace: Lawyer Prashant BhushanChief Justice of India says, if we uphold farmers' laws then you can start agitation but peace has to be maintained. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, appearing for 8 farmer unions, tells CJI that farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on outer ring road peacefully,there's no attempt to destroy peace.'We gave power to the committee... Where is the question of bias?'"We gave power to the committee to listen (to farmers) and come to us and file their reports," the Chief Justice of India (CJI) said. "What is the point of bias in it?," the CJI said and added that don't cast aspersion on Court."No power has been given to committee members to adjudicate things, they have to report to us. Where is the question of bias? If you don't want to appear before committee, don't appear but don't malign or brand anyone like this, don't cast aspersion on the court," CJI also said.SC slams criticism against committee membersThe Supreme Court also slammed criticism against committee members. It also issued notice on application by Bhartiya Kisan Party to replace Committee members. The committee was constituted to resolve the deadlock between the government and agitating farmers. However, protesters rejected the committee saying it has all pro reforms members.The application was moved by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking to fill up vacancy in the Four-member Committee created by resignation of Bhupinder Singh Mann of BKU.Centre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rallyCentre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 after SC says it is a police matter, the news agency PTI reported.SC asks Centre to withdraw plea against proposed tractor rally by farmersSupreme Court asks Centre to withdraw its plea against proposed tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day. The top court also said that it will not pass any order against proposed tractor rally or any other kind of protest by farmers on Republic Day. "We've said that it is for the Police to decide. We are not going to pass the orders. You are the authority to take action," said the Chief Justice of India.Govt has to make a legislation on MSP: Farmers' union"The government has to make a legislation on Minimum Support Price and repeal the three farm laws. Our protest is against the govt and the corporate system," said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, ahead of the 10th round of farmer-Centre talks.Farmers arrive for meeting with police at Vigyan BhawanFarmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss routes and regulations for tractor rally on January 26. "We've told them that we'll hold tractor march at Ring Road, they should accept it. We'll have further info after meet but they won't face any disturbance due to it," said Gurnam Singh Chadun of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmer union leaders to meet Delhi police over tractor marchGroup of farmer union leaders to meet top Delhi Police officials over tractor march on January 26, PTI reported quoting Kisan union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu.BJP govt is trying to stop farmers agitating against farm laws at any cost: Congress Karnataka chiefKarnataka Congress chief, DK Shivakumar on Wednesday said that urged farmers to block highways, roads and stage a protest against the farm laws. "I know BJP govt is trying to stop farmers at any cost and not letting them participate in the protest. I request protesters to come to Sangolli Rayanna statue and participate in the massive protest rally," ANI qouted him as saying.Farmers offer prayers at temporary GurudwaraAgitating farmers offered prayers at the temporary Gurudwara to mark Parkash Purab of 10th Guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh.Tenth round of talks to take place todayRepresentatives of protesting farm unions and the central leadership will on Wednesday meet for the 10th time to overcome the deadlock over three contentious agricultural laws enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-20-2021-101611108033052.html
