26-01-2021||India||'Farmer organisations not in control of agitation now': Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday urged the agitating farmer organisations to give a deep thought to where the agitation is headed.In a late evening statement, the chief minister said Tuesday’s events have shown that the farmers organisations were not in control of the agitation any longer. “The leadership has passed on to hands who do not subscribe to the same set of beliefs that they do. Let the farmers give a deep thought to where the agitation is headed,’’ Khattar said referring to the “sad events” at the Red Fort.The CM said the Council of Ministers, in a specially convened meeting, has appealed to all farmers, particularly those from Haryana, to return to their homes. He said that unsavoury events on Tuesday deserved to be condemned in the strongest words. “Democracy offers space for dissent and differences. But no Indian, whatever the difference of opinion or difference of approach, can ever justify the action of hosting a flag other than the National Flag on the ramparts of the Red Fort. Our martyrs gave their life and blood to preserve and protect the nation for all of us, not to make a spectacle of it,’’ the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-organisations-not-in-control-of-agitation-now-haryana-cm-101611684962579.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Deep Sidhu denies removing tricolour, calls protest 'symbolic'||Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, actor Deep Sidhu, who was present during the incident, sought to defend their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest.The 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all Gurdwara complexes.In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu claimed it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners.“To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” said Sidhu.The flag represents the country's “unity in diversity”, he said while pointing towards 'Nishan Sahib', the triangular saffron flag with the emblem of 'Khanda', a two-edged sword, Chakra, a disc, and two Kirpans that cross each other at the handles.He stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country's unity and integrity.Leaders across the political spectrum condemned the violence and the Red Fort incident, with the Congress' Shashi Tharoor saying he supported the farmers' protests from the start but cannot condone "lawlessness"."Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on #RepublicDay no flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort," the former union minister said on Twitter, tagging a tweet that carried a video of the incident.         Sidhu, who has been associated with the farmers' agitation for the last many months, said "anger flares up" in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored.“In today's situation, that anger flared up,” he said.Sidhu was an aide of actor Sunny Deol when the latter contested from Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Deol, now a BJP MP, had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.Swaraj Abhyan leader Yogendra Yadav, who is among the leaders spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, said Sidhu had been disassociated "from our protest right from the beginning"."When he participated in a protest at Shambu border and seeing their activities, the farmer unions had decided to keep them away from our movement," he said.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions that is leading the protest against the three central farm laws, also disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.Sidhu, however, said that Tuesday's incident should not be seen in isolation as they have been holding their protest for the last six to seven months.“And it (today's incident) was a continuation of that,” he said.Sidhu said the protesters did not go to Delhi to hurt anyone or damage public property, nor they had any weapon.“We held a peaceful protest without destroying anything or causing any damage to the public property…we exercised our democratic right peacefully,” he claimed, adding, “If we think one person or a personality could do such a big mobilisation of people, then it will be wrong.”Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort.Over 80 police personnel have been injured in the violence.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-tractor-rally-republic-day-protests-tricolour-actor-deep-sidhu-denies-removing-calls-protest-symbolic-delhi-police-farm-laws-red-fort-firing-101611683185949.html
26-01-2021||India||BJP leaders meet to discuss violence in Delhi, farmers' agitation||Senior leaders of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) went into a huddle on Tuesday to discuss the implications of the violence that broke out in the national capital. Farmers protesting against the farm laws broke police barricades to reach Red Fort where they hoisted a flag sacred to the Sikhs. The party also underlined that there are similarities in how the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the farm laws have unfolded.Party chief JP Nadda, general secretary BL Santhosh and few other senior leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP and party general secretary Arun Singh, were present for the meeting at the BJP headquarters, said a person aware of the developments.The RSS also condemned the violence. In a statement, RSS general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi said, “The violence and disturbances unleashed in Delhi today on the sacred Republic Day is extremely painful and deplorable. Especially the unfortunate act at the historic Red Fort, it is an insult to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for freedom and national integrity. The RSS appeals to all countrymen to rise above political and ideological differences and strive for peace as a priority.”Also read: Explained - As tractor rally turns violent in Delhi, what farmers wantNo details were shared about the meeting, although a functionary aware of the details said the party leaders see similarities in Tuesday’s protests that broke out within hours of the Republic Day parade, with the protests that engulfed the city at the same time last year when protestors gathered to demand the repeal of the Citizenship Amendment Act.Last year, when then US president Donald Trump was in India, protests broke out between pro and anti-CAA groups in the national capital leading to over dozen of deaths and heavy casualties.A senior leader, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the protests have “corroborated” what the party has been alleging— that the protests have been infiltrated by “anti-national elements”.The functionary quoted above said there is a sense in the party that the protests are being fuelled by those with “vested interests” and the government’s outreach efforts are being “stonewalled”.“The timing of the protests, the way the so-called farmers have reacted to the government’s outreach is indicative of it being the handiwork of those with vested interests. Why do they refuse to interact with the committee appointed by the Supreme Court?” said the functionary.While the opposition parties, including the Congress, have alleged that the farm laws were passed without adequate discussion in Parliament and the government did not heed the demand to send the bills to a select committee, the BJP claims that the opposition is creating deliberate misinformation about the laws just as it did with the CAA, which only seeks to fast-track citizenship for persecuted minorities from the neighbourhood.“When the CAA was passed we asked the protestors to show even one person whose citizenship rights had been taken away. Similarly, now we are ready to argue on the merits of the farm laws to prove it does not take away anyone’s land. But a concerted misinformation campaign has been started about the farm laws just as it was about the CAA,” said BJP’s national spokesperson RP Singh.He said the blame for prolonging the farmer’s protest and the violence that erupted on Tuesday rests with the “lumpen left and the ultra-left intellectuals”.The protests come at a time when the party has begun preparations for electoral battles in four states—Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala- and the Union territory of Pudducherry. The BJP has been facing flak for the farm laws that the protesting farmers have dubbed as pro-corporate and for being unable to break the logjam. It was also accused of dubbing the protesting farmers as secessionists.BJP leaders condemned the violence that broke out. Former national general secretary P Murlidhar Rao said the violence is “shameful and not acceptable”.“In Indian democracy u can have a mobilisation challenging govt on policies..sometimes it may appear as humiliating for d leaders who’re at helms but u can't have a situation where its challenging d sovereignty of country n questioning d spirit of Indian Republic,” he tweeted.Ram Madhav, also a former national general secretary, attacked the Congress for fostering the protests. “After peddling all sorts of falsehoods about farm law reforms n provoking farmers into aggressive action, the Indian versions of Trump like Rahul n ilk are now demonstrating pseudo-indignation at violence. They r equally responsible for whatever happened in Delhi today,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-meet-to-discuss-violence-in-delhi-farmers-agitation-101611680457433.html
26-01-2021||India||Legal action to be taken against those who assaulted police during tractor rally||Delhi Police on Tuesday said that legal action will be taken against those who assaulted police personnel during the farmers' tractor rally held against the farm laws.While talking to ANI, Joint Commissioner of Delhi Police, Alok Kumar said, "Legal action will definitely be taken against those who assaulted police personnel during the farmers' tractor rally today."The time and the routes for the tractor rally were finalised after several rounds of meetings held among Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi police, and farmers' leaders.Also Read | Amit Shah orders deployment of additional paramilitary forces in Delhi"The farmers drove tractors before the fixed time in Ghazipur border. They assured us that after the ceremony of unfurling tricolour at the respective protest site at around 11 am and after that, they will hold a tractor rally according to the routes that were finalised. But suddenly at around 9:30 am, a group tried to breach a barricade and the first clash between police and farmers took place here," said the Joint Commissioner of Delhi."After which other farmers lead their rally with following the routes. A kilometer away from Akshardham Temple we tried to make them understand for about two hours and tried to stop them by using tear gas, baton charge but the violent farmers deliberately run over police officers, broke barricades, damaged police buses leading to other vandalism events in which many police personnel was injured," the police officer said.A protesting farmer died after a tractor rammed into barricades and overturned at ITO today, Delhi Police had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-action-to-be-taken-against-those-who-assaulted-police-during-tractor-rally-101611676559612.html
26-01-2021||India||Over 80 personnel injured during farmers' tractor rally clashes: Delhi police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said protesting farmers violated the conditions pre-agreed for their tractor parade and indulge in violence and vandalism, leaving 83 of its personnel injured.In a statement, the police also claimed it did all due diligence in following the conditions for the rally, but the protesters began their march much ahead of the scheduled time and extensive damage to public property was caused during the violence by them.The police statement came as the national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers to press their demand of repealing the three new agri laws.ALSO WATCH | Delhi clash: Farmer leaders condemn violence, claim 'anti-social' elements role﻿"The protesters violated conditions fixed for the rally. The farmers began tractor rally before the scheduled time, they also resorted to violence and vandalism," Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said."We followed all conditions as promised and did our due diligence but the protest led to extensive damage to public property. Many policemen were also injured during the protest," Singhal said.Alok Kumar, Joint Commissioner of Police, said legal action will be taken against those who assaulted the police personnel during the farmers' tractor rally today.Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said, said a total of 83 police personnel were injured in the clashes including 41 at the Red Fort and 34 in the East District.A senior police officer said that in the morning at Ghazipur Border, a probationer IPS officer got injured as he along with Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Manjeet tried to stop the farmers from breaking the barricades.Additional DCP East Manjeet had a close shave as one of the farmers tried to hit him with his tractor but he escaped and did not sustain any injuries, the official said.The injured, including police personnel, were brought to the LNJP Hospital following the clashes on Tuesday. LNJP Hospital is currently a partially COVID-19 facility in central Delhi near ITO."Some of them were discharged after administering first-aid. Right now, about 22 of them are admitted, including an SHO and 10 other police personnel," a senior official of the hospital said.Asked about the nature of injuries sustained, the official said they include leg and arm fractures and cut wounds.Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort where they climbed the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday.While police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers were seen chasing them with sticks at the ITO and the Red Fort and ploughing their tractors into parked buses, barricades and security personnel deployed to maintain law and order at several other places. A protester died after his tractor overturned.The ITO resembled a war zone with a car being vandalised by angry protesters and shells, bricks and stones littering the wide streets, a testimony to the ugly turn taken by the two-month-long farmers' protests against the agri laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-83-personnel-injured-after-clashes-during-farmers-tractor-rally-101611676356630.html
26-01-2021||Mumbai||'Maharashtra handled farmers' stir maturely': Pawar jabs Centre over Delhi clash||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra, comprising parties like Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), have condemned the violence by the farmers in Delhi, at the same time also put its onus on the Central government for its mishandling of the farmers protests at the Delhi borders.Former Union agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar blamed the Centre for the violence in the national capital. “No one will support such violence but then the question arises who forced them to indulge in such acts? It was squarely the responsibility of the Central government to talk to the farmers and solve this impasse,” he said.Also read: Farmers' body Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls off tractor rally with immediate effect“From the last 60 days, these farmers from Punjab and Haryana were sitting patiently at the Delhi borders asking for the farm laws to be withdrawn but the government displayed no serious intentions to solve this matter,” said Pawar. He warned the government to deal with the matter maturely or have Punjab slip into a state of anarchy.Pawar lauded Maharashtra government for handling the farmers' protest. “There was a farmers' protest in Mumbai as well but the state handled it very sensitively and in a mature manner. The Central government should have done the same with the tractors rally,” said Pawar.He said using force will not achieve anything. “Even now, the government needs to sit down with the farmers and initiate a dialogue to solve this issue. If the government feels it can achieve its goals by using violence then it’s mistaken,” he added.State Congress chief and Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat also pinned the violence on the Modi government. “The farmers have been camping from the last 60 days but the Central government was just wasting time instead of indulging in serious talks. Besides, the government was branding the protesters as ‘Khalistanis’. Such actions forced the protesters to the wall,” accused Thorat.The protesting farmers on Tuesday clashed with the police at several places in Delhi and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO area in the heart of the national capital. Hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and fire tear gas.The Shiv Sena was quick to taunt the BJP-led Central government. “This is one of the blackest days in the history of India. Now, the question is why did the farmers lose their patience? Had this incident occurred anywhere else, they (read BJP), would have demanded resignations from Sharad Pawar, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee or even from Uddhav Thackeray, now whose resignation will they demand? questioned Sena MP Sanjay Raut. “The Central government needs to introspect,” he added, saying that there was a farmers' rally in Mumbai as well which was handled efficiently by the MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cong-ncp-sena-condemn-violence-slam-centre-for-mishandling-farmers-protest-101611673866206.html
26-01-2021||India||Feel ashamed and take responsibility: Yogendra Yadav on protest violence||Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said he felt "ashamed" of the way the farmers' tractor parade turned out on Tuesday, and took responsibility for it."Being a part of the protest," he said, "I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility of it."The tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour."Violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way. I cannot say at the moment who did it and who did not, but prima facie it looks like it has been done by the people that we kept out of the farmers’ protest," Yadav told a TV channel."I appealed continuously that we stick to whatever route was decided and not deviate. Only if the movement goes peacefully, we will be able to win," said Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers' agitation against the new agriculture laws.Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters.Farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the protest at the national capital’s border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, distanced themselves from the protests that had taken such an unseemly turn and threatened to shift public sympathy from their movement.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feel-ashamed-and-take-responsibility-yogendra-yadav-on-protest-violence-101611671662220.html
26-01-2021||India||'Centre's responsibility to maintain law and order, it failed': Sharad Pawar on Delhi violence||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar blamed the central government for Tuesday's violence in Delhi, saying it failed in their duty to maintain law and order. He also said that the government of India did not take the protesting farmers seriously. Pawar’s remarks came after a group of farmers deviated from the proposed route of tractor rally and marched towards central Delhi, resulting in clashes with the police in many areas.“Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh held protest in a disciplined manner but govt didn't take them seriously. As restraint ended, the tractor march was taken out. Centre's responsibility was to keep law & order in control but they failed,” news agency ANI quoted Pawar as saying.The NCP chief also said that the protesting farmers had grown angry as the Centre did not fulfill their responsibility. “Nobody will support whatever happened today but the reason behind it cannot be ignored either. Those sitting calmly grew angry, the Centre didn't fulfill its responsibility. Govt should act maturely & take the right decision,” he added.Also read: At least 19 in hospital after violence at tractor rally in DelhiAppealing to the protesting farmers to return peacefully, Pawar assured that the opposition supports the cause of the farmers. "The way the agitation handled today is regrettable. We all sitting in Opposition support the farmers' cause and I appeal -- now you (farmers) should go back to your respective villages peacefully and should not give any opportunity to the govt to blame you," he said. Pawar, a former Union agriculture minister, addressed a protest in Mumbai’s Azad Maidan on Monday where he slammed the central government and the governor of Maharashtra for their behaviour towards the farmers. “The BJP-led NDA passed the laws without any discussion in parliament and in just one day on the basis of the majority. The Modi government has attempted to uproot the farmers through these laws, but the farmers have the power to uproot political leaders who have been acting arrogantly,” he said.Several other political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, condemned the violence and urged the central government to repeal the farm laws and restore law and order in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-responsibility-to-maintain-law-and-order-it-failed-sharad-pawar-101611666116948.html
26-01-2021||India||At least 19 in hospital after violence at tractor rally in Delhi||At least 19 people have been taken to two Delhi hospitals following violence during the tractor rally on Tuesday in the national capital. Most of them suffered minor injuries and needed first aid, doctors from the two hospitals said.Six people were rushed to the emergency department at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital."All of them had minor injuries and were given appropriate treatment at the hospital and were discharged from the emergency department after a couple of hours. They had come in the afternoon," said a senior doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity.At the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital near Delhi gate, nine protestors and four police personnel were admitted to the hospital emergency.Also read: Amit Shah holds review meet on Delhi's situation after violence at tractor rally"Three of the four police personnel had minor injuries - cuts and bruises - and were discharged after being given first aid. The fourth police personnel has suffered blunt trauma and soft tissue injuries. He is currently undergoing an x-ray and other diagnostic tests to determine the extent of injuries," said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak hospital.All the nine protestors seem to have sustained minor injuries."They are currently undergoing an x-ray to check for fractures etc. They will be kept under observation in the emergency department for five to six hours to see whether there are any internal injuries. But they are all stable and none are critically injured," the doctor said.Today's tractor rally was part of a months-long protest by the farmers demanding a repeal of the three farm reform laws passed by the government last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-19-in-hospital-after-violence-at-tractor-rally-in-delhi-101611665411034.html
26-01-2021||India||Violence at tractor rally: Who said what||The long anticipated Republic day tractor rally organised by protesting farmers took a turn for the worse on Tuesday when farmers deviated from the Delhi Police approved routes and gradually moved towards central Delhi. Amid the chaos, the police had to resort to firing tear gas shells and use water cannons to stop the farmers from entering central Delhi.Political leaders took to various social media platforms to express their views on Tuesday's violence.“We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today's Farmers Republic Day Parade. We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts”: Samyukht Kisan Morcha“Violence is not the solution to any problem. If anyone gets hurt, the damage will happen to our country. Take back the anti-agricultural law for the benefit of the country!”: Rahul Gandhi“We condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts. Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement:” Samyukta Kisan Morcha"The farm laws are completely wrong as they are against federalism since agriculture is a state subject under Schedule 7 of the Constitution,". "Be peaceful and the country is with you": Amarinder Singh“We strongly condemn the violence seen in today's protest. It is regrettable that the Central govt allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months”: Aam Aadmi Party“We know the people who are trying to create disturbance, they are identified. There are people from political parties who are trying to malign the agitation”: Rakesh Tikait"Violence and vandalism will lead us nowhere. I urge everyone to maintain peace & honour agreements. Today is not the day for such chaos!":Gautam Gambhir“I appeal on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to all farmers not to pay attention to rumours, and also appeal to them to return to their designated routes. Please don’t do anything that tarnishes the farmers’ movement. We will win only if farmers protest peacefully.” Yogendra Yadav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-at-tractor-rally-who-said-what-101611663846728.html
26-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Amit Shah orders deployment of additional paramilitary forces in Delhi||Union minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Delhi Police and home ministry officials to review the security situation in the national capital after violence broke out at farmers' rally in several areas. In the meeting, it was decided that additional paramilitary forces will be deployed in Delhi.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla briefed Shah about the prevailing situation in the national capital and the steps being taken by the Delhi Police to maintain peace, an official told news agency PTI.Watch: Protesting farmers clash with cops, storm Red Fort on tractors﻿Delhi Commissioner of Police SN Shrivastava and IB director Arvind Kumar also attended the meeting.The announcement comes in the wake of violence that was witnessed after police and the agitating farmers clashed with each other. A farmer was killed after his tractor turned over, allegedly after police fired at it. Several police officials were injured and were taken to hospital following the clashes.Also Read: Mobile internet suspended for 12 hrs at 5 protest sites in DelhiEarlier, the home ministry had ordered suspension of internet services for 12 hours at five border points of Delhi to ensure public safety. The telecom services were suspended at Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi areas of Delhi. Even the adjoining areas of these five protest hubs will witness temporary suspension of internet services, the order stated.Hundreds of farmers took out a Republic Day tractor rally to protest against the three controversial farm laws that the Centre passed in September last year. The laws are- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-holds-meeting-to-review-situation-after-violence-at-farmers-protests-101611661498210.html
26-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal farmers hold mammoth rallies; TMC, Congress condemn Delhi Police||While chaotic scenes at the tractor rally held by Punjab farmers in the national capital drew the attention of the nation, in poll-bound Bengal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress condemned the Delhi Police and announced agitation across the state. The Left parties and members of the Sikh community on Tuesday successfully held rallies in the districts and Kolkata.“We condemn the baton charge on farmers and use of tear gas shells by the Delhi Police. We will organise protests in all districts on Wednesday,” said Becharam Manna, president of the TMC’s peasants’ front and legislator from Haripal in Hooghly district.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee took to the social media to offer her support to the farmers."Deeply disturbed by worrying & painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers & sisters has to be blamed for this situation. First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India & farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've been extremely casual in dealing with them. Centre should engage with the farmers & repeal the draconian laws," her tweet read.In Hooghly, a long agitation against acquisition of farm land by the erstwhile Left Front government for the Tata Motors small car plant at Singur helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee oust the 34-year-long rule of the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led coalition in 2011. Ratan Tata had to shift the project to Sanand in Gujarat. Another land movement was led by her at Nandigram in East Midnapore district.Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury announced that his party would hold a road blockade in Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon in protest against Delhi Police's action.Also read: 'Violence by some elements unacceptable', says Punjab CM Amarinder SinghThe peasants' front of the CPI(M) and other Left parties held rallies with tractors, motorcycles, auto-rickshaws and cars across all 23 districts, demanding withdrawal of the Centre's recent farm laws. Farmers also walked for kilometres in long processions.The rallies of the Left parties started after the government's official programmes on the occasion of Republic Day. The biggest rallies were seen in East Burdwan, Hooghly, Murshidabad and East Midnapore districts.Amal Haldar, senior peasants' front leader of the CPI(M) said, “More than 600 tractors and two thousand motorcycles took part in the rally that passed through Burdwan town. This is the biggest farmers’ protest in the state’s recent history.”Top CPI(M) leaders, including Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose and CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, led a huge roadshow in the heart of Kolkata along with leaders of and supporters of other Left parties on Tuesday afternoon.Videos of the Left rallies went viral on social media.Members of the Sikh community took out rallies with cars and SUVs and drove past the state headquarters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in central Kolkata.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been supporting the farmers of Punjab ever since they started the agitation outside Delhi. Banerjee even sent Derek O'Brien, the TMC's leader in the Rajya Sabha, and some other MPs to interact with the agitators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-farmers-hold-mammoth-rallies-tmc-congress-condemn-delhi-police-101611662209105.html
26-01-2021||India||'Violence by some elements unacceptable', says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Terming the violence during the tractor rally in the national capital unacceptable, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday urged all genuine farmers to immediately vacate Delhi and return to the borders, where they had been protesting peacefully for the past two months. Singh tweeted, "Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders. "Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders.Earlier in the day Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the farmers' demands, saying that the new farm laws were "completely wrong"."The farm laws are completely wrong as they are against federalism since agriculture is a state subject under Schedule 7 of the Constitution," said Singh.Asserting that his heart was with the protesting farmers, Punjab CM had appealed to the farmers to ensure that their 'tractor rally' event remains peaceful."Be peaceful and the country is with you," Singh said.But as the day progressed, farmers deviated from the approved routes and started moving towards central Delhi which led to clashes with the policemen. Thousands of protesting farmers clashed with police in several areas of Delhi. The farmers also stormed the historic Red Fort after breaking through barricades. Hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing security personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and using tear gas. Internet services have been suspended in several parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) after the violence erupted.Farm union leaders called for restraint asking the protesting farmers to return to the border points where they have been camping for the past two months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-by-some-elements-unacceptable-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101611661899008.html
26-01-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut calls for those who supported 'so-called' farmers' protest to be jailed. Watch her video message||Actor Kangana Ranaut, who has vocally opposed the ongoing farmers' protests, in a new video expressed her anger at the violence that erupted in New Delhi, after a faction of the protesting farmers deviated from the designated route and arrived at the Red Fort. Kangana said that incidents such as this are humiliating for the nation, and called for those that supported the farmer agitation to be jailed.In her video, shared on Twitter on Tuesday, the actor said that it was disappointing to watch the protests turn violent, that too on Republic Day.Sick and tired of riots and blood bath almost every month , Delhi, Bangalore and now again Delhi #दिल्ली_पुलिस_लठ_बजाओ #RedFort pic.twitter.com/pWhXtOrqkx"The images coming out of the Red Fort have shaken up the entire nation," she said in Hindi. "Jail everyone that supported this so-called farmers' protest. They should be punished, there should be some repercussions for this."Kangana, in an earlier tweet, had attacked Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra, asking them if they were pleased with what had happened. Previously, she'd accused both Diljit and Priyanka -- who've publicly voiced their support for peacefully protesting farmers -- of 'misleading' them."You need to explain this @diljitdosanjh @priyankachopra. Whole world is laughing at us today, yahi chahiye tha na tum logon ko (isn't this what you wanted)!!!! Congratulations," she wrote. In a separate tweet, she claimed to have lost endorsement deals because of her comments against the protests, which have been raging for months at Delhi's Singhu border, because of the Centre's farm laws.Also read: Kangana Ranaut launches fresh attack against Diljit Dosanjh, Priyanka Chopra on Republic DayAfter multiple rounds of discussions, the farmers were told to start their rally only after the official Republic Day parade gets over. They were also given alternate routes for the march. But as the day progressed, farmers deviated from the approved routes and started moving towards central Delhi, which led to clashes with the policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-calls-for-those-who-supported-so-called-farmers-protest-to-be-jailed-watch-her-video-message-101611659023591.html
26-01-2021||India||Anti-social elements infiltrated peaceful protest: Farm union condemns violence||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation of over 40 Indian farmers unions, condemned the violence that took place in several areas of the national capital during the tractor rally taken out by farmers on Tuesday."Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement," a statement issued by the SKM said.Also Read: Don't do anything that tarnishes the movement, Yogendra Yadav tells farmers While the SKM appreciated the "unprecedented" participation of farmers in the rally and thanked them for making it a success, it said the violent events that transpired at some locations were "undesirable and unacceptable"."We dissociate ourselves from all such elements that have violated our discipline. We appeal strongly to everyone to stick to the route and norms of the Parade, and not indulge in any violent action or anything that taints national symbols and dignity. We appeal to everyone to desist from any such acts," the statement read.One farmer died and several were injured after clashes broke out between protestors and police in several areas. Police officials also sustained injuries after which they were rushed to the hospital.Click here for live updates on farmers' protestsWhile farmers' union leader Yogendra Yadav urged protesters to return to their designated routes and not do anything to malign the movement, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that those creating disturbances were associated with political parties that were trying to malign the agitation."I appeal on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to all farmers not to pay attention to rumours, also appeal to them to return to their designated routes. Please don’t do any thing that tarnishes the farmers’ movement," Yadav said."We know the people who are trying to create disturbance, they are identified. There are people from political parties who are trying to malign the agitation, Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antisocial-elements-infiltrated-peaceful-protest-farm-union-condemns-violence-101611658043916.html
26-01-2021||Jaipur||'Farmers’ movement arisen from distrust': Ashok Gehlot||Launching a scathing attack on the central government, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the farmers are protesting for over two months, this has never happened in the history of the country. “The annadata (farmers) are insulted. Who has given them the right?” he said.The farmers are on dharna (protest) for the last two months, which is an unfortunate situation and not in the country’s interest, he added. "The annadata is not being heard and their sentiments aren’t understood, this is unfortunate. In such chilly weather, they are protesting and taking out tractor rally," Gehlot said.Addressing newspersons, he said, “The demands can be made by any section and there can be a way out. But the process adopted was faulty since the beginning… in Parliament also, the opposition wasn’t heard and had they submitted the matter to select committee, the opinion of farmers could be taken. The basic reason of this situation is distrust.”"In a democracy doesn’t government change its decisions? Changing or withdrawing decisions in view of public sentiments shows a big heart. Tomorrow, a new law could be brought after talks with farmers, but their approach shows they do not believe in democracy. Around 150 people got killed and had they believed in democracy, their thoughts had not been fascist and such a situation would not be there," said Gehlot.Also read: Farmer part of rally dies, protesters allege cops fired at his tractorWhen asked if the central government is afraid of Congress getting the credit, he said neither the farmers' organization, nor we want to politicise the movement.Gehlot went on to say that such a situation has come in the country where there is pressure on all institutions such as the judiciary, the CBI, IT and income tax department. "Conspiracies are done to topple the governments – earlier it was Goa, Manipur then Arunachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - but they failed in Rajasthan as the public here was united," Gehlot stated.In a democracy, expressing disagreement should be welcomed but here if you disagree with the views of the government, then you are a traitor. These situations have been created inside the country, said Gehlot.The CM also appealed to the farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. He said there is no place for violence in democracy. “The farmers’ movement has been peaceful till now. There is an appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in democracy,” he tweeted.He said instances of violence will translate into the success of such forces that are trying to make the farmers' movement unsuccessful.On leader of opposition, Gulab Chand Kataria's claims, Gehlot said the BJP do not have much to say and they failed as the opposition. Kataria had said that the state government will topple if a cabinet shuffle takes place. Gehlot said such statements by the LoP and others are just to establish themselves in the party.“I have never seen the kind of disputes and infights there are in the BJP today. All are competing with each other and it's visible,” he said.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the Central government constantly held dialogues with the farmers and even agreed to some of their demands. The government also proposed to suspend the new laws for one and a half years but the farmers leaders were misled by the Congress and some farmer leaders stayed adamant.He said the BJP in Rajasthan is united and the Congress will face defeat in the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farmers-movement-arisen-from-distrust-ashok-gehlot-101611657869634.html
26-01-2021||India||Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory after farmers' tractor rally turns violent||Delhi Traffic Police on Tuesday issued an advisory after traffic was affected in several parts of the national capital after the ongoing farmers' tractor rally turned violent. The Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to give information about the situation.“Please avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road, Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas marg, ITO, NH 24, Nizammudin Khatta, Noida link road, Peeragarhi & Outer Delhi, East & West Delhi border areas due to ongoing farmer protests,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Traffic AlertPlease avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road,Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas marg, ITO, NH 24, Nizammudin Khatta, Noida link road, Peeragarhi & Outer Delhi, East & West Delhi border areas due to ongoing farmer protests.“Traffic movement is closed from R/A Shankar Road to Talkatora Road & Minto Road. Motorists are advised to take alternate routes,” Delhi Traffic Police added in another tweet.Read more: Connaught Place to remain shut as farmers’ tractor rally turns violentRoads around Meerut Expressway, Akshardham, Pragati Maidan, Vikas Marg, ITO, Mandi House, India Gate, Mukarba Chowk, Outer Ring Road, Delhi-Noida Link Road, Ghazipur border, Singhu border, and Chilla border had to be closed for general traffic earlier in the day as the farmers' rally got out of control. “Traffic is very heavy on GTK road, Outer Ring Road, Badli road, KN Katju Marg, Madhuban chowk, Kanjhawala Road, Palla Road, Narela and DSIIDC Narela roads. Please avoid these roads,” traffic police tweeted.Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO area in the heart of the city after hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi charge and fire tear gas. There were chaotic scenes at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police.The tractor parade was to start from the Singhu border and move through Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, DTU Shahabad Dairy, Barwala village, Pooth Khurd village, Kanjhawala T-Point, Kanjhawala Chowk, Kutubgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza. From Tikri, tractors were to pass through Nangloi, Baprola Village, Najafgarh excluding Phirni Road, Jharoda Border, Rohtak Bypass (Bahadurgarh) and Asoda Toll Plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-traffic-police-issue-advisory-after-farmers-tractor-rally-turns-violent-101611655648379.html
26-01-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut launches fresh attack against Diljit Dosanjh, Priyanka Chopra on Republic Day||Actor Kangana Ranaut has poked Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra with a fresh jibe on Republic Day. Sharing a picture of a protester planting a flag, she said that the incident makes a mockery of the nation on a global stage.Kangana has been involved in a social media feud with Diljit over the ongoing farmers' protests, and has also made comments against Priyanka in the past, although Priyanka has never responded.You need to explain this @diljitdosanjh @priyankachopra Whole world is laughing at us today, yahi chahiye tha na tum logon ko!!!! Congratulations 👏 pic.twitter.com/ApHo5uMInO"You need to explain this @diljitdosanjh @priyankachopra. Whole world is laughing at us today, yahi chahiye tha na tum logon ko!!!! Congratulations," she wrote, adding an applause emoji. In a separate tweet, she claimed to have lost endorsement deals because of her comments against the protests, which have been raging for months at Delhi's Singhu border, because of the Centre's farm laws.ALSO WATCH | Kangana Ranaut meets MP CM Shivraj Chouhan; backs anti-conversion lawPreviously, Kangana had accused Diljit and Priyanka of 'misleading' farmers. Notably, Diljit and Priyanka extended support to the farmers protesting against the new farm bills.In multiple tweets, she wrote in December, “People like @diljitdosanjh and @priyankachopra will be hailed by the left media for misleading and encouraging farmers protests, pro Islamists and anti India film industry and brands will flood them with offers and English/living in colonial hangover media houses will felicitate them with awards, the problem is whole system is designed to make anti nationals flourish and grow and we are too less in numbers against a corrupt system, but I am sure magic will happen in every fight of GOOD versus EVIL, evil has been much stronger, JAI SHRI RAM.”Also read: Kangana Ranaut slams Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra, says they’re ‘misleading and encouraging’ farmers’ protestA few days later, Kangana claimed that the protests resulted in a cumulative loss of ₹70,000 crore and reminded Diljit and Priyanka of the ‘serious consequences’ of their support to the farmers. “Cost of farmers protests so far 70,000 crores, because of dharna economic slowdown in neighbouring industries and small factories, might lead to riots, @diljitdosanjh and @priyankachopra you understand our actions have serious consequences please tell me who will pay for this?,” she asked on Twitter.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-launches-fresh-attack-against-diljit-dosanjh-priyanka-chopra-on-republic-day-whole-world-is-laughing-at-us-101611655204583.html
26-01-2021||India||CPI(M) hits out at Centre for tear gassing, lathicharging farmers during tractor rally||The CPI(M) on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre over the treatment meted out to protesting farmers during their tractor rally, and said tear gassing and lathicharging them is "unacceptable".The protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital. They entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of Delhi, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas."Tear gassing & lathicharging Kisans is unacceptable. Why, after the Delhi Police & Samyukt Kisan Morcha agreement? Why is the government provoking a confrontation. They must allow the peaceful, agreed tractor parade to continue," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet.Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-hits-out-at-centre-for-tear-gassing-lathicharging-farmers-during-tractor-rally-101611654753093.html
26-01-2021||India||'Can't condone': Tharoor says farmers' flag on Red Fort is 'unfortunate'||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday condemned the act of hoisting farmers' flag on the top of the Red Fort and said that though farmers have his support and sympathies in their protest against the three agriculture laws, he can't condone lawlessness. Terming the sudden turn of events in Delhi leading to protesters reaching atop the Red Fort and hoisting their flag as 'unfortunate, Tharoor said that on Republic Day, no other flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort.Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on #RepublicDay no flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort. https://t.co/C7CjrVeDw7"Saddened to learn of the death of a protestor in police firing. Authorities must urge the police to observe restraint. Violence resolves nothing & resorting to it reduces the state to the level of its enemies. We must resolve this crisis through democratic means, not force," Tharoor added.Saddened to learn of the death of a protestor in police firing. Authorities must urge the police to observe restraint. Violence resolves nothing & resorting to it reduces the state to the level of its enemies. We must resolve this crisis through democratic means, not force. https://t.co/wCbteRWIofThe Congress has been supporting farmers' protest against the three agriculture laws before their 'Dilli Chalo' protests began. In October, the Congress organised tractor yatra in Punjab in which Rahul Gandhi took part. During his recent visit to Tamil Nadu, he referred to the issue of the farmers and said he was happy that farmers are sticking to their demands.Follow live updates of farmers' tractor marchTuesday's event, however, has drawn flak from the Congress as Rahul Gandhi too condemned the violence and said that it could not be the solution.However, when the clash began, the Youth Congress tweeted that it was a conspiracy of the government to tarnish the image of the farmers.ट्रैक्टर मार्च और किसानों की छवि को धूमिल करने का षड्यंत्र केंद्र द्वारा रचा गया है। अन्नदाताओं पर लाठीचार्ज किया जा रहा है और आँसू गैस के गोले छोड़े जा रहे हैं।#HistoricTractorMarch pic.twitter.com/13O9H2MdcxSoon after protesters began their tractor march, clash with police erupted at several areas. Protesters broke barricades and Delhi Police resorted to tear gas shelling, lathi charge. With this going on at several points, groups of protesters entered the Capital, clashed with the police at the ITO, went to the Red fort, put up their flags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-condone-tharoor-says-farmers-flag-on-red-fort-is-unfortunate-101611654135304.html
26-01-2021||India||Don't do anything that tarnishes the movement, Yogendra Yadav tells farmers||Following violence at tractor rallies in various areas of the national Capital, Farm union leader Yogendra Yadav urged protesters to return to their designated routes and not do anything to malign the movement."I appeal on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to all farmers not to pay attention to rumours, also appeal to them to return to their designated routes. Please don’t do any thing that tarnishes the farmers’ movement," he said.Also Read: After violence at farmers' protests, internet services snapped in areas of DelhiSoon after hundreds of farmers took out tractor rallies in protest against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre in September last year, reports of police officials being injured and a farmer dying in clashes started coming in.A farmer, who was part of the tractor rally at DDU Marg near ITO in Central Delhi, died after his tractor overturned. Protesters alleged that police fired at his tractor. Farmers wrapped the farmer's body in the national flag and mourned at the site.Also Read: Clashes, vandalism, tractors on roads: How farmers' march turned violentMeanwhile, authorities suspended internet services in several parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and closed Metro stations after the protests turned violent.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the violence was part of political parties' conspiracy to malign the movement."We know the people who are trying to create disturbance, they are identified. There are people from political parties who are trying to malign the agitation," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-do-anything-that-tarnishes-the-movement-yogendra-yadav-tells-farmers-101611654510698.html
26-01-2021||India||Farmer part of rally dies, protesters allege cops fired at his tractor||The violence during the farmers' tractor rally took a serious turn when one of the protesters died. The incident took place at Minto Road in central Delhi on Tuesday afternoon.The farmer's body was found crushed under a tractor, but the protesters allege that he was killed in police firing.Farmers' tractor rally: Track Live UpdatesThe farmers have kept the body wrapped in a national flag at the ITO intersection and are protesting. They claim that the tractor had overturned after police fired at it.A group of protesters, meanwhile, entered the Red Fort on Tuesday afternoon and waved flags from the ramparts. A few of them even climbed on the poles installed in the premises and hoisted their flags.Also Watch: Farmers clash with cops in Delhi; barricades broken, vehicles vandalisedTraffic was affected in several parts of the national capital on Tuesday due to the farmers' tractor rally.Also Read: 'Country's loss...' Rahul Gandhi tweets on tractor march violenceThe entry and exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines, ITO and Indraprastha metro stations were also closed as a precautionary measure.Police used tear gas on groups of farmers and resorted to baton charge as protesters broke past barricades with tractors at different border points and did not take the pre-decided routes for their march in the national capital.They also drove their tractors on both carriageways of major roads of central Delhi.A Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus was vandalised and at least two police vehicles were damaged in Singhu.Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of one of the participating farmer groups Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they wanted to conduct a peaceful tractor rally but the confusion over the route to be followed led to a chaos.The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting against the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the conclusion of the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-part-of-rally-dies-protesters-allege-cops-fired-at-his-tractor-101611651912367.html
26-01-2021||India||'Country's loss...,' Rahul Gandhi tweets on tractor march violence in Capital||As the farmers' tractor march on the occasion of Republic Day celebrations turned violent at several places, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said violence is no solution — not to any crisis. "Whoever gets hurt, the loss is of the country," the Congress leader tweeted once against urging the Centre to repeal the farm laws the farmers are protesting.Gandhi, who has been supporting the farmers in their demands, slammed the violence that broke out on Tuesday in the Capital without going into which side is responsible for the violence. Whichever side gets hurt — be it farmers or police — the loss of the country, the Congress leader said.Farmers who have been protesting three farm laws since November took out their pre-planned tractor march. But things went out of control and though the march was not supposed to enter the Capital, a section of it reached the Red Fort and put up their flags after crossing ITO.Follow live updates of farmers' tractor marchMeanwhile, both sides reported injuries and the farmers have claimed one death and blamed it on police firing, though a video has apparently shown that the man was crushed under a tractor.The unions of the farmers, which negotiated with the Delhi Police over the route of today's tractor march, did not admit to the ruckus and said the deviation from the route happened because of some confusion.Watch: Farmers clash with cops in Delhi; barricades broken, vehicles vandalisedThe Centre had approached the Supreme Court through Delhi Police against today's tractor rally. The apex court had asked the Delhi Police to take a final call on this. After rounds of consultations, permission for the tractor march was given and a route was also decided. But on Tuesday nothing happened as planned with protesters claiming that they had to break barricades because Delhi Police were not allowing them to enter the Capital and the Police claiming that it had to use force because the protesters turned violent.On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi became the first politician to the violence unfolding at the heart of the Capital. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has not yet commented on what happened in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/countrys-loss-rahul-gandhi-tweets-on-tractor-march-violence-in-capital-101611650254290.html
26-01-2021||India||Ruckus at ITO: Video of tractor trying to run over police emerges||Delhi's ITO on Tuesday wore the look of the battleground with several DTC buses being vandalised by protesters, police resorting to lathicharge, tear gas shelling, road divider being broken. Confusion prevailed over who are these attackers as the unions of the farmers continued to distance themselves from the ruckus that took over the Capital in the name of a 'peaceful protest' which was supposed to have gone back to the borders by the time when the Capital became a mini war-zone. A video showing a tractor being driven frantically in the middle of a crowded ITO has also emerged. With a National Flag on the top of it, the tractor has only one driver and as it chases police personnel, they jump away from its way, the video shows. Click here for live updates of farmers' tractor march#WATCH: A Delhi Police personnel rescued by protesters as one section of protesters attempted to assault him at ITO in central Delhi. #FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/uigSLyVAGyBharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait maintained that the protest is peaceful. Denying knowledge of those who are creating ruckus in the Capital, he said, "Rally is going on peacefully. I don't have any knowledge of it. We are at Ghazipur and are releasing the traffic here."#WATCH Violence continues at ITO in central Delhi, tractors being driven by protestors deliberately try to run over police personnel pic.twitter.com/xKIrqANFP4A video of one police personnel being assaulted by a group of protesters emerged while it can be seen in the same video that another group, who are also protesters, came to the rescue of the police personnel.But why and how protesters reached the Capital while their union leaders gave an undertaking of not entering the city? Union leaders have admitted some confusion over route while the Twitter handle of Kisan Ekta March said it was a pre-planned strategy of the government to create violence. They also said that the claim of vandalising DTC buses is misleading. There were attempts to move the buses, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tractor-march-reaches-ito-one-group-assaults-police-another-saves-101611647836818.html
26-01-2021||India||Want peaceful farmers’ tractor rally, confusion over routes led to disorder: Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said they wanted to conduct a peaceful tractor rally of the farmers protesting against the agricultural laws but the confusion over the route to be followed led to chaos in Delhi on Tuesday.“We want to be peaceful and conduct farmers’ parade and leave, confusion over routes led to disorder,'' he told HT.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Hundreds of protesting farmers reached the Ring Road at Sarai Kale Khan and moved towards ITO in central Delhi. By around noon, the protesters, who outnumbered the police, had taken over both carriageways of the Ring Road. Police had not allowed protesters to come to this part of the city as it is close to the India Gate lawns, about 4km, where the Republic Day function was being held.Watch: Farmers clash with cops in Delhi; barricades broken, vehicles vandalisedThe farmers drove their tractors over the divider and spilled on to both the carriageways. The protesters clashed with the police and broke barricades when they were stopped from entering central Delhi. A bus of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) was vandalised and at least two police vehicles were damaged in Singhu earlier in the day when police tried to stop protesting farmers from deviating from the route that was allowed for the rally.By 1:30pm, several incidents of violence were reported especially from the Capital’s ITO area where a few policemen were beaten up by the protesting farmers. A video showing a tractor being driven frantically in the middle of the crowd also emerged. Farmers broke barricades while the police resorted to lathi-charge and tear gas shelling. Several protesters also entered Red Fort and hoisted several flags on the domes of the historic building.Following the ruckus in the city, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has closed all stations on the Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) along with several other stations on other Metro corridors. DMRC tweeted, “Entry/exit gates of all stations on the Green line are closed.” The Tikri border falls on the Green line. Officials said that the stations, especially those near the state borders, have been closed following instructions from Delhi Police.“Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed,” the DMRC said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-peaceful-farmers-tractor-rally-confusion-over-routes-led-to-disorder-rakesh-tikait-101611647260601.html
26-01-2021||India||Tractor march: Protesters flout undertaking; swords wielded, bus vandalised||The tractor march which was meant to be a peaceful protest aimed at only putting forward the issues the farmers are facing went berserk on Tuesday with the participants flouting the undertaking that the union leaders of the protesting farmers gave to the Delhi Police.Thousands of tractors on Tuesday took a turn towards ITO while the farmers' union repeatedly promised that the tractor rally won't enter the Capital.#WATCH Delhi: Protesting farmers vandalise a DTC bus in ITO area of the national capital. pic.twitter.com/5yUiHQ4aZmDirectives were issued asking all tractors to not play loudspeakers or to crowd the tractors with more than five people. But all such directives were thrown to the wind. The umbrella body of the farmers' unions asked participants to not carry any arms, but the participation of Nihang Sikhs atop their horses, carrying and wielding their swords and sticks, became a flashpoint of today's chaos.Click here for farmers' tractor march live updates#WATCH Protestors at Karnal bypass break police barricading to enter Delhi as farmers tractor rally is underway in the national capital#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/pzfJs6IoefChaos prevailed at Mukarba Chowk, Nangloi which also disrupted normal traffic. One group of protesters took the Akshardham route instead of the designated Apsara road and police resorted to tear gas to contain the protesters.Delhi Police deployed maximum force across the capital in a pre-emptive move. But as there was no cap on the number of tractors taking part in the march, protesters at places outnumbered police.Here is what happened since the morning and how the proposed peaceful march led to a violent face-off with the police.> It was decided that the tractor rally will enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and then will return. According to the route map, the march from Singhu was supposed to pass through Kanjhawala, Bawana, Auchandi border, KMP Expressway and then return to Singhu. The Tikri route was was to Nagloi, Najafgarh and Western Peripheral Expressway and the Ghazipur border route was supposed to be on Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway.> But farmers complained that Delhi Police didn't remove the barricades and were not allowing the protesters to enter Delhi, while the tractor march was officially given the permission to enter into Delhi on pre-approved routes.> The first clash took place at the barricades.> Another round of clashes took place when protesters deviated from their routes. Police resorted to tear gas, lathi charge.> It became a battleground just a kilometre away from Delhi's Akshardham temple as police fired tear gas shell and farmers threw it back at police.Police is provoking Peaceful Farmers by shelling tear gas, Lathi-charge & barricades.This seems pre-planned strategy of Government.#TractorParade #TractorMarch #FarmersProtest #TractorRally pic.twitter.com/vrHlNaMBzt> According to union leaders, the deviation was by outsiders. They also claimed the police provoked peaceful protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tractor-march-protesters-flout-undertaking-sword-wielded-bus-vandalised-101611644561767.html
26-01-2021||India||Farmers marching from Singhu border breach barricades, police fire tear gas||Hundreds of farmers, marching from Singhu border to Delhi during a tractor rally against the new agriculture laws, on Tuesdabreached barricades as tractors moved in prompting the police to fire tear gas at the protesters. Some of the farmers driving cranes removed the cement barricades as some on horses breached them.The tractor rally from Singhu border had come to a halt near Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar on the GT Karnal Road, about 13km from Delhi. The farmers were supposed to take a right and move away from GT Karnal Road but insisted on marching ahead. Even as the police announced requesting them to take the route decided upon, some farmers' leaders met with additional commissioner of police AK Singla. "This is the oldest national highway. You have to realize its significance," Singla told them.Also read | All you need to know about farmers’ Republic Day tractor rallyAmid the chaos, people used bare hands to push away heavy cement blocks and a horse rider pulled out a sword to threaten paramilitary personnel. Farmers also pelted stones on security personnel firing tear gas. Some of the protesters moved their tractors into the prohibited route and were on course to the Ring Road as they took over both the carriageways of the GT Karnal Road.Groups of protesting farmers camping at Tikri and Ghazipur border points also broke police barricades to force their way into the city, much ahead of the time they were granted permission by Delhi Police for their tractor parade.Protesting farmers broke the police barricades at Tikri and Singhu borders and move towards Delhi on their tractors, motorcycles and SUVs. Many farmers started their march on foot and they showered petals on the security forces, including Delhi Police personnel. At the Tikri border, senior Delhi Police officials tried to appraise the farmers about the law and order situation but the protesters removed barricades while showering petals on them. The farmers had started the tractor march before the planned time between the farm leaders and administration.A long line of tractor-trolleys, cars, motorcycles and other vehicles could be seen on the Ambala-Delhi stretch and Rohtak-Delhi highway on the occasion of Republic day. The farmers said they will reach Delhi while holding a peaceful protest march and the senior farm leaders were continuously making announcements to follow their guidelines and carry out the tractor march peacefully.Satnam Singh Pannu, the president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, said they will not follow the route given by the Delhi Police to hold their tractor march. “We will hold our tractor march on the Outer Ring Road and we have given 45 minutes time to Delhi Police to remove the barricades and give us a clear path,” he told reporters.The farmers are also showing tableau of their respective states at both the borders.Also read | No drugs, weapons, political party flags: Dos and don'ts for R-Day tractor rallyFarmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The eleventh round of talks between farmers and the government was held last Friday. The talks of farmers' unions and the government have seemingly broken down after the former insisted on their demand for the repeal of three new farm laws and the latter asked them to reconsider its offer to put these laws on hold for about 18 months. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that the agitation against the farm laws which has been going on for almost two months will end soon.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-marching-from-singhu-border-breach-barricades-police-fire-tear-gas-101611639623051.html
26-01-2021||India||No drugs, weapons, political party flags: Dos and don'ts for R-Day tractor rally||As farmers protesting against three agriculture laws began their tractor rally on Tuesday morning, union leaders are making sure there is no law and order crisis in the Capital as they promised a peaceful march.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border since November. But apart from them, many farmers from other states have come in the past few days to join today's march. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella union of the farmers, has issued a directive for all those who are coming from other states so that there is uniformity.Farmers tractor rally LIVE: Protesters break police barricade at Tikri borderFarmers have mostly joined the protests in their trolleys where they are staying as well. But the union has made it clear that no trolleys will be allowed in the march. Only tractors are allowed but if there is a trolley with special tableaux, then it may take part. Like Republic Day Parade, farmers are also showcasing tractors with special tableaux.The tractor march has already been subject to several controversies as the Centre had moved the Supreme Court against the march saying that the march on Republic Day would hurt the pride of the nation. The Delhi Police too didn't initially allow the protesters to come into the Capital. But after several rounds of consultations, the union leaders convinced Delhi Police about their march. Hence, additional caution has been taken by the union to spread the dos and the don'ts. "We've to take care that this historical parade is not stained at any cost. Our victory lies in the parade being taken out in a very peaceful manner; without any unwanted events taking place. Remember, that our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this country," the union said in its directive.Instructions for farmer’s Republic Day ਕਿਸਾਨ ਗਣਤੰਤਰ ਦਿਵਸ ਪਰੇਡ ਲਈ ਨਿਰਦੇਸ਼. किसान गणतंत्र दिवस परेड के लिए निर्देश #farmersrepublicdayparade #BharatKaregaDelhiKooch pic.twitter.com/VfESHaRPrF5 Places for 5 Routes -Join Farmers Tractor Parade via these Places#DigitalKisan #DigitalKisanMorcha pic.twitter.com/u37c3bekveHere are the dos and the don'ts> No weapon to be carried, not even sticks.> No flag of any political party or any other political outfit. Only the National Flag and the flags of farmers' organisations are allowed.> No deviation from the planned route. If any tractor is found going to another route, then action will be taken.> No halting in between without any reason.> One tractor will carry a maximum of five people, including the driver. No riding on the bonnet, roof etc.> No music in the tractors. There will be announcements which the tractor drivers will have to listen to.> Use of drugs before or during the parade is prohibited. If you find anyone found in possession/consuming drugs, please report it to the nearest traffic volunteer.> Treat women, policemen, media personnel with respect.> No littering; carry a bag for disposal of waste.The union has also urged participants to stay away from rumours and not panic in case of any emergency.There will be tableaux of 11 states in the tractor march. Himachal Pradesh will depict the issues of apple growers, Maharashtra's tableau is on farmers' suicide and Punjab will display a tableau on the theme of sacrifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-drugs-weapon-political-party-flag-dos-and-don-ts-for-farmers-republic-day-tractor-march-101611633758986.html
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Thousands leave for Delhi ahead of rally from Punjab, Haryana||Thousands of tractors clogged key roads in north India on Monday as farmers left their homes in villages, hamlets and cities across Punjab and Haryana to join a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, aimed at pressing for the repeal of three recently passed agriculture laws.Unprecedented fervour about the farmers’ show of strength swept all three regions of Malwa Majha and Doaba in Punjab. Local people reported that the ubiquitous tractor, a symbol of pride and prosperity in the breadbasket state, was missing from its usual parking spot outside houses as entire families left for the Capital.Residents of villages along the highway set up langars, or community kitchens, to serve food to those on their way to join the protests and local shopkeepers offered water, juice and refreshments.“The population of my village is around 1,100 and around 100 men have left for Delhi for the tractor parade,” said Harwinder Singh of Pallah village in Amritsar district.In the Haryana districts of Rohtak, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Dadri, villages emptied out as farmers drove to Delhi in tractors-trailers, cars, SUVs and motorbikes. “Over 1,000 tractors belonging to our khap have moved for Delhi border. Villages are empty as men, women and children are headed towards Delhi. We will take part in the historic parade and the world will witness farmers’ struggle,” said Tekram Kandela, head of Jind’s Kandela khap, a community organisation.Many vehicles were freshly painted and decorated with flowers, with the Tricolour affixed on one side and carrying ration, mattresses and other essentials. “It was not possible for all farmers to reach Delhi, so, it was planned that people will gather at district headquarters on Republic Day for a peaceful protest. All arrangements are in place across districts,” said Resham Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Bathinda unit.At the Punjab-Haryana border at Shambu, local traders reported surging demand for farm union flags, badges, stickers and other pro-agitation buntings. Jang Singh, Patiala president of Krantikari Kisan Union, said an appeal was made to villagers to send at least two members of their families to Delhi.Dayanand Punia, a farm leader from Bhiwani, said 1,500 tractor-trolleys left for Delhi from Loharu, represented by Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal. “The villagers have collected money to bear all expenses and compensate loss in any vehicle, if any incident takes place. Women in our villages will look after the fields in our absence. At least 11 women from each village will take in the parade,” he added.A long queue of tractors lined the highway from Rohtak to Tikri on the outskirts of Delhi. A 30km-long traffic snarl jammed the road near the Singhu border. Tractors were seen moving at a snail’s pace along the Ambala-Delhi stretch on National Highway-44 and other arterial roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thousands-leave-for-delhi-ahead-of-rally-from-punjab-haryana-101611612077290.html
26-01-2021||India||Stage set for mega tractor rally; Parliament march on Feb 1||Hundreds of thousands of protesters on Monday prepared to enter the national capital on Republic Day on tractors to take out a mega farmers’ parade — one, they contend, will rival the spectacle of the official celebrations on the Rajpath boulevard in pomp and pageantry — even as the leaders of the agitation said they will follow up with a march on foot to Parliament on February 1, when the government presents the Union budget.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that while the Republic Day rally is planned as a one-day event, the scale of the protest could mean that the rally could spill over to the next day by the time they return to their starting spots located at three different rally routes in and around the Capital.The police say about 30,000 tractors are likely to participate in the rally, but farm leaders said the number of vehicles will be closer to 200,000. The farm unions, however, have promised not to veer from the three routes — centered around the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders — agreed to with the Delhi Police.“We will march towards Parliament on foot from different locations on the Budget day on February 1. As far as tomorrow’s (Tuesday’s) tractor rally is concerned, it will give the government an idea of our strength and they will know the agitation is not just limited to Haryana or Punjab but it is an agitation of the whole country,” said Darshan Pal, a farm union leader.He said the agitation will continue till the demand of repealing three contentious farm laws is met. The government and farm unions have not been able to find a solution to the stand-off over 11 rounds of talks, and the farmers last week rejected a far-reaching proposal by the Centre to put the laws on hold for 18 months. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday reiterated that farmers should accept the government’s proposal to suspend the laws. “The government has given the best offer to farmers’ unions. I am hopeful that they will convey their decision to us after discussing it among themselves,” he told reporters.Delhi Police have allowed Tuesday’s parade to cover a length of 194km on stretches crossing the three principal border points that have become protest sites over the last two months. The “farmers’ Republic Day parade” is the outcome of a months-long protest by farm unions against the three farm laws pushed by the Centre, and farmers say their event will be unique.The police said thousands of security personnel have been deployed at several border points to maintain law and order during Tuesday’s parade. The Delhi Traffic Police asked commuters to avoid routes where protesting farmers will conduct the rally.The farmers will also hold tractor marches from four places on the Haryana-Rajasthan border but these won’t enter Delhi.At the Tikri and Singhu border camps, the two largest farmers’ congregation points, farmers were busy preparing for their own Republic Day cultural spectacle. In the coppery light of a fading wintry sun, wheat-grower Manjit Singh Brar flashed a ‘V’ sign as he mounted a flagstaff on his glimmering brass-and-chrome-lined tractor.Wearing a turban in the colours of the national flag, he then roared on a video call: “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” (hail soldiers, hail farmers), a popular slogan coined by the country’s second prime minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri.Yogendra Yadav, one of the organisers of the farmers’ protests, said: “We have always seen Jai Jawan (victory to soldiers) on Republic Day. This time we will see Jai Kisan (victory to farmers) too. This will be a historic occasion.” His comment referred to the official celebrations which ceremoniously figure in a two-hour parade that showcases the country’s military might and cultural diversity.Farmer leaders have appealed to those participating in the tractor parade to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. “No one should carry any weapon or consume alcohol. Banners carrying provocative messages are not allowed,” a leader said.The farm unions have pressed on with a protest against the Centre, opposing the agricultural laws that ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. The farmers say the laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.At Singhu and Tikri, which have become virtual tent cities, resembling a fair, with all possible amenities, such as 24-hour tea stalls, music sessions, prayer halls, canteens, gyms, libraries and now tractor fitment-and-polishing centres, the farmers could be seen preparing for the rally.Gulab Singh, who has modified his tractor for ₹600,000, said: “Urban children who have never been to villages will see a glimpse of what farming is like and what rural life is all about.” The vehicle has been flamboyantly decorated and dazzles in chrome, has a 10-speaker stereo system, coordinated LED lights and GPS, which will guide him through his parade route.Each procession of tractors will be led by a car that will act as a pilot vehicle, seating leaders of the movement such as Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Kavitha Kuruganti.In one trolley, a team of six contortionists will make an acrobatic presentation, each contortion representing a food-crop plant.Farmer-artistes from Bengal have set up a mobile installation to pay a poignant tribute to over 100 farmers who have died in the protests, including Sant Ram Singh, a Sikh cleric who fatally shot himself on December 16. “It will be a major attraction and will pay a tribute to all our farmer brothers who have lost their lives in this agitation,” said Bolin Bhattacharya, who refused to reveal details of the artwork, preferring to keep it a surprise.Tableaux of folk dances of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan will be led by women, said Revati, a farmer who goes by one name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stage-set-for-mega-tractor-rally-parliament-march-on-feb-1-101611602868064.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police says it will ensure that farmers stick to rally route||Only 5,000 farmers on 5,000 tractors will be allowed into Delhi for the tractor rally scheduled for Tuesday, according to the terms and conditions mentioned in the no-objection certificate (NOC) issued by the police on Monday, but the police said practically all tractors joining the rally will be allowed to enter the Capital.Though the police also wanted the rally to end by 5pm on Tuesday — within five hours of its start at 12pm — officers said they are prepared to deal with a situation in which the rally spills over into the next day.After series of meetings between the farm leaders and the police over the past one week, the two sides have agreed upon three routes for the rally.The official limit on the number of tractors and participants, and the hours of operation, was in sharp contrast to the police’s announcement at a press conference on Sunday, when senior police officers had indicated there was no limit on the number of tractors and up to five farmers would be allowed on one tractor.The police had also said the rally would be expected to end by Tuesday itself if there were just about 30,000 tractors. Farmer leaders, however, have maintained the tractor count would be over 200,000 and the rally could go on for 48 hours.Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of Delhi Police’s intelligence unit, said as per the agreement with the farmers, only 5,000 tractors with just one person on each vehicle are permitted, but the “police will facilitate” the farmers. “We’ll ensure their safety, security and movement,” said Pathak.Another senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said the police are still appealing to the farmers to maintain the mandated limit on the number of vehicles. “Our aim is to ensure that the tractors return to the border point by evening. But we won’t stop tractors beyond the 5,000 count,” said the officer.According to the same officer, the count of tractors on the city’s borders as of Monday evening had crossed 27,000. “At most, it will go up to 40,000. If it reaches the upper limit, the rally could spill into Wednesday, but we are prepared for it,” said the officer.Farmer leaders, meanwhile, said all tractors that join the rally would enter Delhi. “There is no limit on the number of tractors or the number of participants. The rally could go on for 48 hours, depending on how long the tractors take to return to the border” said Rajinder Singh, vice president of Kirti Kisan Union.As per the document, the farmers will have to arrange 2,500 volunteers and some traffic marshals to coordinate with the police on the ground.Farmers are required to bring their own drinking water, medical aid and firefighting equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-says-it-will-ensure-that-farmers-stick-to-rally-route-101611594795443.html
26-01-2021||Delhi||Gleaming tractors add to buzz at borders||Gleaming tractors that have been serviced, washed and adorned with the tricolour and banners; farmers busy giving finishing touches to tableaux on agricultural themes; volunteers setting up mobile hospitals and another group registering the parade participants -- the farmer protest venues at Delhi’s borders were beehives of activity on Monday, the eve of the historic “tractor parade” to be held by farmers on Republic Day.Tuesday’s event coincides with the two-month anniversary of the farmers’ agitation which began on November 26, when thousands of farmers from neighbouring states reached Delhi’s borders looking to enter the Capital to protest against the three farm laws. When they were denied entry, they camped at the border points, the main camps being at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla.President of Krantikari Kisan Union Darshan Pal said farmers will also take out a “padyatra (pedestrian march)” to the Parliament on February 1, the first day of the budget session. “People who have come here from across the country to participate in the parade will stay back and take part in the padyatra,” he said, adding that the Republic Day “tractor parade” may continue up to 48 hours.Balwinder Singh, 64, a farmer from Bhullar village in Kapurthala district of Punjab, who has been camping at Singhu border, said, “This parade is to express our anguish over the farm laws. Tractors are instrumental in farming and we want to celebrate our Republic Day by displaying our tractors.”Farmers have taken special care to clean their tractors and put up flags and banners. Garvinder Singh, 35, a farmer from Tiwana village in Mohali said everyone in his village had wanted to join the parade. “I serviced my vehicle before coming here to ensure that I can participate in the parade,” he said.Komal Singh, a 20-year-old law student from Chandigarh, and her cousin rode a scooter to Delhi. “Normally, my mother would not have allowed me to ride to Delhi. But when she saw that entire caravans of people were marching towards Delhi, she let me go. There were hundreds of vehicles on the road from Chandigarh to Delhi and I felt like was among family. I have never felt so safe,” said Singh, adding that the journey took her around 10 hours due to the traffic on highways.Tuesday’s Republic Day celebrations by farmers will also feature a number of tableaux depicting several social issues, including privatisation of agriculture, farmer debts, widows and children of farmers who died by suicide, atrocities against Dalits, violence against women, and problems faced by migrants during the Covid-enforced lockdown last year.Harinder Bindu, president of the women’s wing of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), who is camped at Tikri border, said, “These tableaux show the real picture of the country -- where the poor and the marginalised are suffering. We want the people to know that our fight is not just for farmers but for everyone, including those widowed or orphaned because of farm debt suicides,” she said.Members of different student groups were also seen preparing for the parade. Navkiran Natt, of the All India Students’ Union (AISA), said, “We have prepared a tableau depicting how farmers are being exploited by the government and corporates.”To ensure the tractor parade remains peaceful, farmers have formed groups to look after security. Farmer leaders at UP Gate border said their route has been divided into nine zones and each zone will have 200 volunteers present who will be assisting the police during the rally.“For identification purposes, each volunteer will be wearing a yellow jacket and an identification card. Some of them will be riding motorcycles or driving cars along with emergency vehicles. These groups will carry walkie-talkies to coordinate with other volunteers,” said Dharmendra Malik, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) spokesperson.On Monday, five help desks were set up at the Ghazipur venue for registration of tractors and drivers for the parade. The volunteers were checking driving licences and Aadhaar cards and recording details in a register before issuing them the green registration cards.“We are making a list of all tractors and drivers. We will only allow those tractors and drivers who will display the green registration card,” said Jitendra Singh alias Jitu, who is heading the volunteer groups.The BKU spokesperson said three security teams of 15 volunteers each will be searching all tractor trolleys and tents and also frisking individuals with hand-held metal detectors.“The checking has been going on for the past three days. We will not allow anyone to carry weapons. Since thousands of tractors will be in the rally, we have also arranged mechanics and cranes to repair or remove tractors that break down,” said Malik, adding that women will also be participating in the rally.Farmers said a langar committee will distribute packed food among protesters during the parade. “There will be 3,000 volunteers in uniform at protest sites on Tuesday. While half of them will manage the traffic, others will keep an eye out to prevent any untoward incident,” said Jagmohan Singh, a member of BKU (Punjab).Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of BKU (Rajewal), appealed to farmers to maintain peace and discipline during the parade. “The government will witness the biggest show of strength this Republic Day. We will maintain peace as we have been doing from Day One,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-from-across-the-country-prepare-for-historic-parade-on-rday-101611594735866.html
26-01-2021||NA||Highlights: Bhupinder Singh Hooda says victory of farmers 'certain'||Thousands of farmers from across the country are marching towards the national capital for the planned tractor rally on January 26. The farmers' agitation entered day 61 on Monday as the stand-off between the government and the farmers continues. Farmer leaders on Sunday appealed to those participating in the Republic Day tractor march to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. As the preparations for the tractor rally are in full swing, a war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route to attend to any medical emergency.Follow all the updates here:Farmer protests spread to Mumbai: Congress, NCP leaders attend; cops stop march. WatchVictory of farmers' movement is certain: Bhupinder Singh HoodaThe victory of the farmers' movement against the Centre's new agri laws is certain, senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said on Monday as he called upon them to ensure their 'tractor parade' in Delhi on Republic Day remains peaceful. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the laws at various Delhi border points since November 28 last year and on Tuesday, they will take out tractor parades that will pass through the national capital."The victory of the farmers' movement is certain as their agitation is peaceful and disciplined," Hooda, who is the leader of opposition in the Haryana assembly, said in a statement.Govt devoted to farmers' welfare, says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind on the new farm laws has said that the "path to reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions" but it is beyond doubt that the government remains singularly devoted to farmers' welfare.Singer Babbu Maan requests farmers to march peacefullyMy request is that this march should to be peaceful. I appeal to the youth to maintain peace. Any sort of violence will ruin the movement. Don’t take the law into your own hands, said Singer Babbu Maan, reports ANI.Karnataka farmers' associations to hold tractors rally on Republic DayTaking a cue from the farmer's tractor agitation in Delhi, various associations of ryots in Karnataka have geared up for a similar rally here on the occasion of the Republic Day on Tuesday, reports PTI.Women to take drive tractors at 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on R-DayIn a show of strength, hundreds of women are expected to drive tractors at 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day, as a large number of farmers opposing the new agriculture laws will enter the national capital under a high security cover, reports PTI.Will march on foot towards Parliament on Feb 1, says farmers' union leaderOn February 1, we will march on foot towards Parliament in Delhi from different locations, said Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union, reports ANI.Delhi Traffic police asks commuters to avoid NH-44, GT road, NH-10 in view of tractor's rallyThe Delhi Traffic Police on Monday asked commuters to avoid the routes where protesting farmers will hold their tractor rally or 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day, reports PTI. Avoid taking NH44, GT-Karnal road and NH10 as these will remain affected due to the tractor rally," an official said at a press conference.Farmers will not keep quiet until farm laws destroyed, says PawarThe Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution and on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP president Sharad Pawar said on Monday, reports PTI.Agitation to end soon, says agriculture minister TomarThe protest will end soon, said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar when asked when will the farmers' agitation get over, reports ANI.Farmers could have chosen any other day, rally to be concern for police, farmers: TomarThey could have chosen any other day instead of January 26 but they have announced now. Conducting rally peacefully without any accident would be the concern for farmers as well as police administration, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Mumbai: Farmers gather at Azad Maidan for protest march to Raj BhavanDTIDC suspends bus services due to tractor rallyDue to the tractor rally of farmers, interstate buses and local buses will not be operational from Anand Vihar ISBT from 6am to 6pm on 26th January. Interstate buses plying from here will run from Sarai Kale Khan: Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC)Mutually agreed on three routes with farmers' leaders, says Delhi top cop"After discussions with farmer leaders, we have mutually agreed on three routes for the tractor rally. We have visited the routes. There are some anti-national elements who can create disruption and we're careful about that," says Delhi commissioner of police SN Shrivastava.Maharashtra governor has time to meet Kangana but not farmers, says Pawar"Maharashtra governor has time to meet Kangana Ranaut but not the farmers. He left for Goa without meeting the delegation of farmers," says Pawar.Farmers have power to uproot rulers: Sharad PawarThe laws were passed using the majority in parliament, but the farmers have the power to pull your government down. The laws are an attempt to uproot farmers. But the farmers have the power to uproot rulers: Sharad PawarMumbai will play key role in fight against farm laws: Sharad Pawar"Mumbai had played an important role in freedom fight, unified Maharashtra movement and now will play a key role in this fight against the farm laws too," says NCP chief Sharad Pawar at Azad Maidan stir.KMSC insists on marching on Outer Ring RoadWe requested Delhi Police officials again but no mid-ground was found. We've asked them to speak with their seniors & if they agree to our routes, it will be good. We will hold the tractor parade at the routes decided earlier: SS Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee https://t.co/JY9THW91NSWe will hold the tractor parade at the routes decided earlier, says SS Pandher of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC).Maintain peace during tractor rally, appeals Punjab CMPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh appeals to the farmers to maintain peace during Republic Day tractor rally.Sharad Pawar attends farmers' stir at Azad MaidanNCP chief Sharad Pawar and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat attend farmers' stir at Mumbai's Azad Maidan.Some parties 'misguiding,' trying to agitate without support of farmers: Devendra FadnavisSome parties are misguiding and trying to agitate without support of farmers. I want to ask Congress that NCP permitted contract farming in 2006. It is okay to have contract farming in state but wrong when Centre brings out the same. What double standard is it?: Devendra Fadnavis, ex-Maharashtra CMFarmers, labourers protest at Mumbai's Azad MaidanFarmers and labourers stage protest at Mumbai's iconic Azad Maidan. Food distribution counters set up by various NGOs, and gurdwaras.PM attacking our farmers: Rahul Gandhi in Tamil NaduThe PM is attacking our farmers. He has brought three new laws which are going to destroy Indian agriculture and hand it over to 2-3 big industrialists. Imagine that one of the laws clearly states that farmers can't go to court to protect themselves: Rahul Gandhi in Karur, Tamil NaduFarmers from Maharashtra gather at Mumbai's Azad MaidanMaharashtra: Farmers from various districts of the state gather at Azad Maidan in Mumbai, in protest against #FarmLaws. A protester says, "We'll give memorandum to Governor today. Our families have also come with us because if we lose farming, the entire family will come on road" pic.twitter.com/AdCa6CLIbvFarmers from various districts of Maharashtra gather at Azad Maidan in Mumbai, in protest against farm laws.Maharashtra ruling parties likely to join Mumbai rally todayPolitical leaders from the three ruling parties in Maharashtra are likely to join Monday’s public rally by farmers who have come from across the state to Mumbai’s Azad Maidan. Read moreFarmers to meet Delhi police todayFarmers to have another round of meeting with Delhi police today to discuss rally routes and time. "We just want to go to Ring Road. We'll have a meeting with Police at 10 am today over this. It will then be decided where will we finally go. After the meeting, we'll decide the time and route of the rally," said Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra.Permission granted to us for tractor rally is not right: Farmer"We feel that the kind of permission granted to us for tractor rally is not right. We wanted to go to the old Ring Road but we were given conditional permission and assigned the portion that comes largely under Haryana," says Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.Tractor rally to start after R-Day paradeThe tractor rally will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and it will travel at Delhi's busiest Outer Ring Road. Click to know full details of the paradeRally to be held from three border points of DelhiThe rally will be held from Delhi's three border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- and adequate security will be provided to it, police said.Those starting from the Singhu border will traverse Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza. The entire route will be 63 kilometers long. The 62-km long second route, starting from the Tikri border, will pass through Nagloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border and Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza, the farmer leaders said.Tractors starting from Ghazipur will drive through Apsara border, Hapur road and Lal Kuan. Covering 68 kilometers, it is the longest route for the march.Farmers across India prepare for Republic Day stirThousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarkhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads, including the busy Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Meerut highways. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-25-101611537307339.html
26-01-2021||India||Want peaceful farmers’ tractor rally, confusion over routes led to disorder: Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said they wanted to conduct a peaceful tractor rally of the farmers protesting against the agricultural laws but the confusion over the route to be followed led to chaos in Delhi on Tuesday.“We want to be peaceful and conduct farmers’ parade and leave, confusion over routes led to disorder,'' he told HT.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Hundreds of protesting farmers reached the Ring Road at Sarai Kale Khan and moved towards ITO in central Delhi. By around noon, the protesters, who outnumbered the police, had taken over both carriageways of the Ring Road. Police had not allowed protesters to come to this part of the city as it is close to the India Gate lawns, about 4km, where the Republic Day function was being held.Watch: Farmers clash with cops in Delhi; barricades broken, vehicles vandalisedThe farmers drove their tractors over the divider and spilled on to both the carriageways. The protesters clashed with the police and broke barricades when they were stopped from entering central Delhi. A bus of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) was vandalised and at least two police vehicles were damaged in Singhu earlier in the day when police tried to stop protesting farmers from deviating from the route that was allowed for the rally.By 1:30pm, several incidents of violence were reported especially from the Capital’s ITO area where a few policemen were beaten up by the protesting farmers. A video showing a tractor being driven frantically in the middle of the crowd also emerged. Farmers broke barricades while the police resorted to lathi-charge and tear gas shelling. Several protesters also entered Red Fort and hoisted several flags on the domes of the historic building.Following the ruckus in the city, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has closed all stations on the Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) along with several other stations on other Metro corridors. DMRC tweeted, “Entry/exit gates of all stations on the Green line are closed.” The Tikri border falls on the Green line. Officials said that the stations, especially those near the state borders, have been closed following instructions from Delhi Police.“Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed,” the DMRC said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-peaceful-farmers-tractor-rally-confusion-over-routes-led-to-disorder-rakesh-tikait-101611647260601.html
