27-01-2021||India||Congress, Rahul Gandhi instigated farmers protest, claims Prakash Javadekar||Blaming the Congress for instigating farmers' agitation which resulted in violence in the national capital on Republic Day, Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said party leader Rahul Gandhi was fueling the protest."Congress constantly tried to instigate the farmers' agitation. Rahul Gandhi wasn't only supporting protest but also instigating it. It was the same during CAA," claimed Javadekar.The Union minister for information and broadcasting said that the Congress holds rallies, they instigate people to take to streets and agitation begins next day. "It happened during this agitation too. They instigated farmers," he said.The Punjab government should have monitored the tractors leaving the state and made preventive arrests of habitual criminals, Javadekar said at a press conference.Referring to the unfurling of a flag from the ramparts of Red Fort, Javadekar said, "India won't tolerate the manner in which the Tricolour was insulted at the Red Fort. The manner in which there was violence in Delhi yesterday, the more it is condemned, the less it is."Pointing to an alleged political motive, Javadekar said that the Congress wants to stoke disturbance in the country."Congress wants to create a situation of unrest in the country. This is what is left of Congress' politics. They are worried as to what will happen to the family-based politics? Thus, Congress is trying to fire up every situation of violence," Javadekar said.The Union minister lauded the Delhi police and said, "Delhi Police displayed remarkable restraint yesterday. They were attacked by swords and even stones were thrown, but they did not retaliate. They brought the situation under control with patience."Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava addressed a press conference on Wednesday where he said that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left several cops injured and warned that no culprit will be spared.Srivastava also said that farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the tractor rally that was supposed to be held from 12 pm to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rahul-gandhi-instigated-farmers-protest-claims-prakash-javadekar-101611761379438.html
27-01-2021||India||Day after violence, farm leaders postpone February 1 march to Parliament||A day after tractor rally called by farmers spiralled out of control and led to violence and chaos in the national capital, farmer leaders on Wednesday decided to postpone their proposed February 1 march to Parliament.The farmers had decided to march to Parliament to mark their protest against the three contentious farm laws passed by the government in September last year.The farmers have now said they will hold jan sabhas (public meetings) and a one-day fast on January 30 to mark their condemnation against Mahatma Gandhi's assassination. The protests will be against the forces that killed Gandhi, the farm leaders said.Stating that most of the farmers were peaceful and a government conspiracy was designed to sabotage the rally, the farm leaders said that despite attempts to break it, 99.9% farmers were peaceful."The rally fell prey to government conspiracy. Some incidents took place. The government put the Punjab Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee members in front of blockade put for us but there was no blockade for them," Balbir S Rajewal, Bhartiya Kisan Union (R) said minutes after Delhi Poluce held the presser.However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has maintained that agitation against three farm laws will continue and has not been called off.Carried out peacefully for nearly two months, the protest called by thousands of farmers turned violent after the tractor rally called by them took unapproved routes to enter into the national capital on Republic Day. This, in turn, halted the city-state till evening, crippling several traffic junctions and forcing the government to snap internet connections in parts of Delhi. The protesters also breached India's Mughal-era monument Red Fort and unfurled a flag of their own atop one of the poles, inviting serious flak from citizens and leaders.The Delhi Police on Wednesday filed at least 25 FIRs in cases related to the violence and chaos.A majority of these cases have been registered under sections of rioting, causing hurt by dangerous weapons, obstructing police from doing their duty, police have also filed some cases under heinous sections of attempt to murder and attempt to culpable homicide in clashes reported from the Red Fort, ITO and Ghazipur. In one FIR, police are also probing protesters for destroying CCTV cameras on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-violence-farm-leaders-postpone-february-1-march-to-parliament-101611759066653.html
27-01-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait named in FIR over violence in tractor parade, says Delhi Police||Farmer leader and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has been named in Delhi Police's FIR on violence in the national capital on Tuesday. He faces charges of rioting, attempt to murder and assault."BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait's name mentioned in an FIR by Delhi Police. The FIR mentions multiple IPC sections, including Sec 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (punishment for rioting) & 353 (assault/criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty)," Delhi Police was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."FIR by Delhi Police mentions the names of farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Rajinder Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh Burjgil and Joginder Singh Ugraha for breach of NOC issued regarding farmers' tractor rally. FIR also mentions the name of BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait," Delhi Police said in a statement on Wednesday.Responding to the reports of the FIR, Tikait told PTI that an "FIR against any farmer leader is FIR against farmers of the country".After a stormy protest on India's 72nd Republic Day which brought the city-state's traffic to a standstill, forced snapping of internet connection in several regions and claimed one life, Delhi Police have filed at least 25 FIRs to nab the culprits.The police force claims that FIRs cite the names of several farmer leaders who have been caught on tape instigating people to resort to force and break barricades in a bid to enter the national Capital on the 72nd Republic Day. Some of the FIRs on violence at Red Fort and ITO will be sent to the Crime Branch, Delhi Police officials said.A majority of these cases point to sections of rioting, causing hurt by dangerous weapons, obstructing police from doing their duty. The police has also filed some cases under heinous sections of attempt to murder and attempt to culpable homicide in clashes reported from the Red Fort, ITO and Ghazipur. In one FIR, police are also probing protesters for destroying CCTV cameras on the road.The police officials claim that at least 86 officials were injured in the clashes with protesting farmers.The cops have also detained 200 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-named-in-fir-over-violence-in-tractor-parade-says-delhi-police-101611746630510.html
27-01-2021||India||Red Fort breach: Minister Prahlad Patel says report to be sent to MHA||Union minister Prahlad Patel, who visited the Red Fort in New Delhi on Wednesday to assess the damage caused by the violence, said a report will be sent to the union home ministry. Patel, the minister for culture and tourism, visited the 17th century monument with officers of the ministry and Archaeological Survey of India."I inspected the Red Fort with officers of the Culture Ministry and Archaeological Survey of India today. I gave 2 directions - report be made at the earliest and handed over to MHA, and that the FIR be registered immediately. Things will be further clarified after the report comes," news agency ANI quoted Patel as saying.Also read | Red Fort breach: Farm leaders' meet to fix responsibility, fingers at Deep SidhuHe also met the kids who had participated in the Republic Day parade and wanted to visit Red Fort. "While returning, I visited Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Smriti. 85 children from Odisha's Kalahandi had come and participated in the Republic Day parade. While returning they wanted to visit Red Fort but couldn't reach there. So, I met them, they are safe," Patel said, according to ANI.A tractor parade on Tuesday, that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws, descended into anarchy as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.Some farmers carrying the ceremonial swords scaled the outer walls of the fort and hoisted flags.Security has been beefed up in several places across the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with deployment of additional paramilitary forces after an order from Union home minister Amit Shah who held a review meeting late on Tuesday.Also read | Gurnam Chaduni: The firebrand behind the farmers’ protestsTuesday's violence was condemned by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the group of farm unions organising the protests. They are due to meet later on Wednesday to decide on a response to the violence.A total of 173 monuments are located in Delhi and protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). It includes UNESCO World Heritage Sites - Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-breach-minister-prahlad-patel-says-report-to-be-sent-to-mha-101611740224759.html
27-01-2021||India||No one should do politics over violence: Fadnavis on R-Day farmers' protest||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said no one should do politics over violence that broke out during the farmers' protest in the national capital on Republic Day as the matter is about the nation.Speaking to PTI, Fadnavis condemned the violence and said farm leaders leading the protest should introspect why such violence took place.The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort."What happened yesterday in the national capital was not right. I think no one should do politics and it is not right to do politics on this kind of violence," Fadnavis said just before meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.He was responding to a query on NCP chief and former Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar blaming the Centre for violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.Asked if the farmers' protest has lost its credibility after the violence witnessed in Delhi here, the senior BJP leader said, "Those who are leading the protest should introspect why such an incident happened."Fadnavis called on Tomar and discussed Maharashtra-related issues.Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary was also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-should-do-politics-over-violence-fadnavis-on-r-day-farmers-protest-101611738469721.html
27-01-2021||India||News updates from HT| Red Fort breach: Farm leaders' meet to fix responsibility, fingers at Deep Sidhu||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Red Fort breach: Farm leaders' meet to fix responsibility, fingers at Deep SidhuAll farmers' unions on Tuesday unanimously claimed that none of the unions had any plan to "invade" the Capital on Republic Day. Read moreUddhav Thackeray to release book on Karnataka-Maharashtra border disputeChief minister Uddhav Thackeray will release a book explaining his government’s stand on the border dispute with Karnataka on Wednesday. Read more1 dead, 2 injured as track-relaying machine breaks between Ambernath- BadlapurA contractual labourer with railway died and two others suffered injuries when the gantry of the Track Relaying Train (TRT) Machine derailed and fell on the workers conducting maintenance work. Read moreAfter four years, ex-AIADMK leader Sasikala freed from jailVK Sasikala, the expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (AIADMK) member, on Wednesday completed her prison sentence after 1,442 days behind bars. Read more'The idea to promote Rishabh pant at no. 5 came from Virat Kohli,' reveals India batting coach Vikram RathourOne of the most surprising twists during the Sydney Test against Australia came on the final day when after Ajinkya Rahane was dismissed early, Rishabh Pant came out to bat. Read moreVarun Dhawan's first message to fans after getting married to Natasha Dalal: 'We got so much love and positivity'Varun Dhawan has shared his first message to his fans and followers on Twitter, since tying the knot with Natasha Dalal on Sunday. Read moreTata Safari vs rivals: Price comparisonTata Motors has unveiled the all-new Safari on 72nd Republic Day of India. The all-new iteration of the SUV appears pretty stylish as compared to the previous model and in line with the other contemporary Tata SUVs. Read moreWatch: ‘We're on verge of defeating Covid pandemic’: Harsh Vardhan at WHO meet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-red-fort-breach-farm-leaders-meet-to-fix-responsibility-fingers-at-deep-sidhu-and-all-the-latest-news-101611730911012.html
27-01-2021||India||Red Fort breach: Farm leaders' meet to fix responsibility, fingers at Deep Sidhu||All farmers' unions on Tuesday unanimously claimed that none of the unions had any plan to "invade" the Capital on Republic Day. They have also distanced themselves from those who went inside the Red Fort and hoisted the Khalsa flag. They have also not commented on the death of a protester. On Wednesday, the unions are scheduled to meet at Singhu border to chart out the future course of action. They will also decide on the accountability of what happened in the name of farmers' tractor march in the Capital.'I take the responsibility,' Yogendra Yadav saidSwaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav on Tuesday took the responsibility for the violence and said he was ashamed of it. However, other union leaders v passed the blame on to outsiders.Tourism minister Prahlad Patel visit Red Fort, condemns action of farmers'Deep Sidhu-BJP connection'The name of Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, who was a former aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, has cropped up in the aftermath of the violence. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has put the blame on Deep Sidhu. "Deep Sidhu is not a Sikh, he is a worker of the BJP. There is a picture of him with the Prime Minister. This is a movement of farmers and will remain so. Some people will have to leave this place immediately- those who broke barricading will never be a part of the movement," he said.'Unfurling flag not our plan'Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee's SS Pandher said unfurling the flag at the Red Fort was not part of the farmers' programme. "Some miscreants joined the protest to defame farmers' movement. We did not plan to unfurl the flags at Red Fort, this was not our program. Deep Sidhu's photo with the PM has floated, we had already expressed doubt over him," he said.What is the photo that farmers leaders are referring to? The photo dates back to the time when Deep Sidhu was a close associate of Sunny Deol. Several verified Twitter handles shared those photos on Wednesday.Deep Sidhu, meanwhile, has accepted putting up the flag but asserted that it should not be given any communal colour as it was not a planned move. He also said the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-instigated-red-fort-not-original-plan-how-farmers-unions-are-planning-to-evade-violence-responsibility-101611730334949.html
27-01-2021||India||Important to respect peaceful protests: UN chief's spokesman on farmers' stir||In the wake of violence and clashes between farmers and police in India, a spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said it is important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence.Tuesday’s tractor parade in New Delhi, which was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws, dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade, leaving over 300 policemen injured. One person died in the incident.Secretary-General Guterres’ spokesman Stephane Dujarric, in his response to a question on the violence in New Delhi during his daily press briefing on Tuesday, said: “As we say in many of these cases, I think it's important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence”.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi.The Kisan Morcha has disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.It has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-respect-peaceful-protests-un-chief-s-spokesman-on-farmers-stir-101611729591826.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||One protester dies at ITO, 86 police personnel hurt||One farmer died and 10 farmers and 86 police personnel were injured in violence during the tractor parade taken out by the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws in the Capital.Twenty-one persons — 11 police personnel and 10 protesters — were brought to Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate. “Five of the police personnel had bruises, cuts, and minor blunt injuries. They were given first aid at the hospital’s emergency department and discharged. Five others are undergoing diagnostic tests such as CT scan and X-ray to check for internal injuries and are under observation at the emergency department,” said a senior doctor at the hospital.One of the police personnel who has a head injury is “critical” and is admitted to the intensive care unit. “He suffered injuries to his hand as well. However, he does not need any life support and has been admitted to the ICU, just to ensure better observation,” the doctor said.All 10 protesters are currently under observation at the hospital. “Most of them had minor injuries like some bleeding, swelling, or blunt injury. However, we need a complete battery of tests to ensure that there is nothing wrong before discharging them,” said the doctor.A 25-year-old protester from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh died when the tractor he was driving overturned at DDU Marg, near ITO. While protesters said that the man’s tractor overturned because police had fired at the vehicle, police said that not a single shot was fired at any protest site on Tuesday.At Ram Manohar Lohia hospital near Gol Market, 20 persons were brought in — 14 police personnel, two bystanders, and four media persons. “Fortunately, none of them have any serious injuries. Most had suffered some cuts and lacerations. Their wounds were dressed and sutured. They were prescribed medicines and discharged. Only a couple of people remain admitted at the hospital,” a senior doctor said.Among those who remain under observation at the hospital is a police officer with a fracture and a bystander with a thumb injury that needs a minor surgery.Seven persons were brought in at Mangolpuri’s Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital. Fifty eight persons injured in the tractor rally were also admitted to Sushruta Trauma Centre at Civil Lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-protester-dies-at-ito-86-police-personnel-hurt-101611704836973.html
27-01-2021||India||Actor Deep Sidhu blamed for violence||Senior farm leaders and politicians on Tuesday evening blamed 36-year-old Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu for inciting violence during the Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi.Sidhu was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) two weeks ago in connection with a sedition case against US-based banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice.Farm leaders alleged Sidhu — who earlier publicly aired his differences with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha — tried to defame the farmers’ stir. “We condemn this act of Deep Sidhu in strong words and we think that he was working as a government agent. We didn’t have any plans to go to Red Fort but he did not follow our guidelines and even misled some youth,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni.Other leaders said Sidhu attempted to wrest back the limelight after being sidelined by farm unions. “He [Sidhu] posted a video claiming responsibility and justifying the act. Those who hoisted the flag at Red Fort were allowed a free passage as part of a conspiracy,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan.The controversy began with a Facebook video posted from the actor’s account around 2pm in which Sidhu could be seen along with his supporters at the Red Fort. Many of them held the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, and a young man could be seen climbing a flagstaff in the background, with the ‘kesari’ flag in hand.“He is the front face of Khalistan and the role he played on Republic day has made it clear,” said Ravneet Singh Bittu, Congress parliamentarian from Ludhiana.Sidhu posted another video on Facebook at 5.40pm, where he admitted to hoisting the Nishan Sahib flag but said that he had done nothing wrong.But farm leaders were not convinced. “Deep Sidhu, who was the election agent of Bharatiya Janta Party candidate Sunny Deol and whose picture with Narendra Modi went viral on social media, led the charge at Red Fort [on Tuesday], according to TV visuals. This clearly points to an element of sabotage,” said Hannan Mollah, the leader of All India Kisan Sabha and a member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha.In 2019, Sidhu campaigned for BJP candidate Sunny Deol, who went on to win the Gurdaspur constituency. He was very close to Deol’s family, but later, Deol dissociated himself from Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-deep-sidhu-blamed-for-violence-101611704249786.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Rampage at Red Fort’s ramparts||From dancing to loud music outside the monument, to storming it and attacking the policemen who attempted to evict them, scenes at the Red Fort changed dramatically within 150 minutes of farmers converging at one of the capital city’s most iconic monuments on Tuesday afternoon.In those 150 minutes, hundreds of farmers climbed the ramparts of Red Fort and hoisted several religious flags (the Nishan Sahib of Sikhs), vandalised almost anything they could lay their hands on, fought a pitched battle with the police, throwing some of them into trenches, and seeking to ram tractors into others.“The farmers were happy to reach Red Fort after camping at one place for two months. The drama you witnessed is nothing in comparison to the large number of farmers who have converged here. These are minor skirmishes,” said Ajay Pal Singh Brar, a farmer leader from Mohali who was among the crowd gathered at Red Fort, seeking to downplay the incident.Police had a different view. At least 22 police personnel have been identified to have been injured at the Red Fort clashes alone. The police haven’t been able to pin point the location in the cases of each of the 85 police personnel officially identified as injured in the clashes. But a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified said that the count of personnel injured at Red Fort is only climbing by the hour. “It could run into several dozens,” said the officerOf course, the farmers were not supposed to be at Red Fort at all. The monument did not fall along the pre-decided routes the three rallies were to take. However, the buzz among farmers when they set off on Tuesday morning from Singhu was that they would try and reach the monument.The rally from Singhu Border arrived at Red Fort at 1.30pm, around the same time that some tractors from the Ghazipur rally also reached there. While most tractors stayed on the main road near the monument, others rolled over the trench separating the monument from the two parks right outside it.Initially, the farmers danced to loud music blaring from their tractors. Other clicked selfies in front of Red Fort, watched over by the police.But soon, some farmers walked over to the entrance gate of Red Fort in a bid to enter the monument. While a few simply scaled the iron gates, others tied ropes around the gate to open it.In a matter of minutes, hundreds stormed the monument. Some climbed a dome and hoisted the Nishan Sahib. Another did the same with a flag post that did not have a flag. Some of the protestors were also carrying national flags.The police swung into action around then. One policeman tried to climb the pole to bring down the flags, but he couldn’t make it to the top and was booed by the farmers as he slipped.But the worst was yet to come.The police decided to evict the protestors from the monument. But they faced resistance from the farmers. A pitched battle ensued. Some policemen were thrown into a trench, beaten and bloody.Then, some farmers chose to drive their tractors into the fighting policemen, injuring several. Others scrambled to escape. Around 20 policemen even jumped into a trench to save themselves.The protesters were not done, though. They repeatedly rammed a police vehicle which had already been overturned. Others went about trashing other police vehicles, the windows of offices on the premises of Red Fort.Shortly after, more armers began entering the Red Fort complex, along with horse-mounted Nihang Sikhs.It was only around 4pm.Around that time, a larger group of policemen decked in anti-riot gear returned , and had better luck in clearing the complex of farmers. They had to use a bit of force, but most of the farmers by then seemed to be ready to be persuaded. The police were assisted by some farmers who helped clear the monument of protestors.“At Lal Quila, the farmers broke the gates and entered the wells of Red Fort. A section of the crowd also managed to climb atop the ramparts of the Red Fort where they hoisted their organization’s flag. With great efforts, the Delhi Police managed to remove the crowd from the rampart and the vicinity,” said an official statement released by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-rampage-at-red-fort-s-ramparts-101611703770585.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Security to stay tight, no plans to shut down borders, Delhi metro today||Entry into several parts of New Delhi and Central Delhi areas will be limited on Wednesday with police deciding to maintain tight security across the Capital and monitor for any more gathering of farmers with tractors, according to officials who said they were holding talks to ensure protesters retreat to sites at the borders.A senior police official, who asked not to be named, said vigil will also be tightened at the city’s borders, although there are no plans to close them or the sensitive areas in the Capital as of now.Following the violence at Central Delhi’s ITO, East Delhi and several other parts, Delhi’s borders in East Delhi as well as the DND was briefly blocked.“Depending on the situation on Wednesday, we will take a call. The protesters are retreating to the borders. If miscreants try to gather at any vital installation on Wednesday, we will take the call accordingly,” the officer said.The official added that police personnel and reinforcements from paramilitary units will continue to patrol the city, especially places in the New Delhi district. On Tuesday, 150 companies of paramilitary forces — about 20,000 personnel — was brought in from outside to secure the national Capital.Following directions from the Delhi Police, the DMRC on Tuesday closed its Green Line (Inderlok to Mundka) as tension escalated on Tikri border and later shut operations on its Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh). While the services on Grey line, which was closed for commuters around 3.20pm, resumed after two hours, DMRC decided to keep all the stations closed on the Green Line for the entire day.DMRC officials said that as of Tuesday night, they have no plans to shut any metro station on Wednesday.Officials said that they shut operations or gates after police’s instructions whenever there is an apprehension of law and order problems at the metro lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-to-stay-tight-no-plans-to-shut-down-borders-delhi-metro-today-101611703477334.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Violence at farmers' tractor rally: What went wrong in the police plan?||The tractor rally by farmers protesting three farm laws passed in September was to start at 11am on Tuesday. The tractors were to move along a pre-decided route near the three border points where the farmers have been protesting – Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri — spread across the north, eastern, and the western part of the Delhi and return to the border.None of that happened.Instead, on Tuesday, hundreds of farmers laid siege to Red Fort; others clashed with police in ITO and other parts of the city; and the administration had to take the unprecedented step of suspending mobile Internet services in at least four parts of the National Capital Region.By the end of the day, by the time, the farmers started returning to the border, 86 policemen and at least 10 farmers were injured, and one farmer was dead -- after the tractor he was driving overturned when he crashed into a barricade.So, what went wrong?“Nobody followed the terms of the agreement. They (the farmers) took advantage of their large numbers and stormed into the city. At Ghazipur, they started driving before the agreed-upon time and broke barricades while it was decided in the meeting that police would escort them. At Singhu, the protesters started a little before 11 and were peaceful initially. They had to turn back at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, about 15km from Singhu but refused and insisted on marching. Later they took over both carriageways,” said a senior police officer.Police officers estimate that the city was overrun by around 200,000-250,000 protesters. The police were outnumbered. They were ready with 150 companies of paramilitary forces — about 20,000 personnel – and around 30,000 from their own force.“At Ghazipur, the protesters just refused to listen and started clashing with the police right from the first hour. By 10.30am, when protesters removed police barricades and pelted stones, we had to fire tear gas shells,” a second police officer said .The second officer said that most farmers refused to listen to their leaders. “Within the farmers’ group, we were in touch with 10-12 leaders at each border. They said they could not control their people and expressed helplessness. Even among the protesters, there were multiple groups. At ITO, some of wanted to go to India Gate, some others wanted to go to Red Fort.”Senior Bharatiya Kisan Union(BKU) leader Naresh Tikait said that some young farmers among the protesters had got excited and started the march on the opposite carriageway. “They are youngsters and got carried away. But many farmers including the leaders stayed here and followed the route decided.”Dharmender Malik , spokesperson of BKU, however said that they had already asked police to allow them to march to Akshardham but it was rejected. “Many anti social elements and others from political parties also entered our rally. They were the ones who were violent,” he said.The officer added after groups split and chose to go in different directions, an alert was also sent to all police stations to increase security outside the residences of President, Prime Minister, home minister and L-G. The officer said around 2,000 farmer volunteers who had signed up to help police ensure the protest passed peacefully did not respond to calls for assistance.The Delhi police on Tuesday released a statement that farmers did not adhere to the terms on which they were allowed to hold the rally. “They vandalized property and attacked police personnel. At many places, some protesters used their tractors to run over the police. We used minimum force. Not a single shot was fired by police. We still appeal to the protesters to maintain peace and return to where they were protesting,” a Delhi police spokesperson said.Senior officer, Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of Delhi police told a news agency that police would take action against those who assaulted police personnel and damaged property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/violence-at-farmers-tractor-rally-what-went-wrong-in-the-police-plan-101611703308541.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP, Congress train guns at each other for protest violence||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has been supporting the agitation against the farm laws, condemned the violence during the tractor parade on Tuesday, saying it has “weakened” the protests.Thousands of protesters who had been camping on Delhi’s borders with Hayana and Uttar Pradesh, stormed into the city, riding tractors, breaking through barriers and clashing with the police.Even as the AAP blamed the Centre for “allowing” Delhi’s law and order situation to deteriorate from “bad to worse”, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the AAP and the Congress of allegedly sending members of their Punjab cadre to join the rally.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not comment on the matter on Tuesday.The AAP in a statement said, “We strongly condemn the violence seen in today [Tuesday]’s protest. It is regrettable that the Central government allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months.”“Farmer leaders have said those who indulged in violence today were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement which was going on peacefully and in a disciplined manner,” the AAP said.Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta said the “kisan Andolan” is no longer under the control of the farmer’s bodies.“In fact, all along, the farmers protests have been supplemented by elements from the Congress and the AAP cadres from Punjab,” he said.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary also condemned the violence and said that the BJP-led government at the centre was “instigating the farmers”. “On Republic Day, farmers were lathi charged and tear gas shells were lobbed at them. The BJP government wanted the farmers to be forced to resort to violence, so that they could be portrayed as unruly,” alleged Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-congress-train-guns-at-each-other-for-protest-violence-101611703019768.html
27-01-2021||India||Law student writes to CJI to take cognisance of Red Fort violence||A law student on Tuesday wrote a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde urging him to take suo motu cognisance of the violence that took place at the Red Fort during the farmers’ protest in the national capital on Republic DayHundreds of farmers climbed the ramparts of Red Fort and hoisted religious flags (the Nishan Sahib of Sikhs), vandalised almost anything they could lay their hands on, fought a pitched battle with the police, throwing some of them into trenches, and tried to ram tractors into others.Requesting a Special Investigation Committee inquiry, Mumbai University student Ashish Rai said in the letter:“The way the flag of another community has been waved in place of the national flag of India, hurting the honour and dignity of the country, is a shameful event. And the whole country is also hurt by this incident, as the national flag has been insulted.”Rai stated that the incident has hurt the “country’s devotional spirit” and an inquiry is essential to determine how anti-social elements managed to enter the tractor rally.“It is, therefore, a humble request to the Supreme Court that a Special Investigation Committee be formed on this entire matter to conduct a rigorous inquiry against the anti-social elements involved in this unconstitutional activity so as to punish the accused,” Rai stated in his letter.It will be open for the Court to take note of the letter and convert it into a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) or take suo moto cognisance of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-student-writes-to-cji-to-take-cognisance-of-red-fort-violence-101611702807349.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||Police, farmers fought pitched battle at Nangloi||Nangloi chowk in west Delhi turned into a site of violent clashes between the Delhi police and a group of farmers from Tikri border participating in the tractor parade organised as part of an ongoing agitation against three farm laws passed by the Centre in September 2020.At around 11.45am, the police resorted to lathi charge and fired tear gas after a group of protesters broke barricades to move towards Peeragarhi flyover even though that was not part of the route decided between farmers’ groups and the police earlier in the week.As per the agreement reached on January 24, protestors from Tikri border were required to turn off at Nangloi towards Najafgarh and ride down Baprola village towards the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway. However, a section of farmers insisted on riding towards Red Fort.The agitators tied the barricades to their tractors using ropes and began to move them. Many removed stones set up as blocks with their bare hands to make way for tractors. The protesters vandalised a temporary police post and smashed a police van parked under the flyover.Several DTC buses that had been set up as barricades were also smashed.“When farmers protesting at different borders also reached the Red Fort why is the police not allowing us to take out the march towards it?” said Sukhbeer Singh, a protester from Haryana’s Bhiwani , who managed to cross the barricades and reach Madipur Metro station. By 2pm, the entry and exit to all the Metro stations on the Green Line were closed.Sporadic clashes continued between till late in the evening, even as the vast majority of the protestors continued their parade without incidence, many of them even returning to their camping site at Tikri Kalan. The tear gas shelling continued intermittently for four hours.“Despite repeated requests, farmers did not listen to the police and vandalised the barricades and public property to move ahead on a route that was against our agreement . The police had to resort to tear gas shelling and lathi charge only after farmers turned violent. They also pelted stones and bricks on police officials,” police official deployed at the site said. A little after 4pm, the police intensified the tear gas shelling.Protesters in turn alleged that it was the police action that forced them to break the barricades. “The farmers have been sitting at the borders and no one is listening to our demands. Today, when the police resorted to lathi charge and fired tear gas at them, they turned violent,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Sangrur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-farmers-fought-pitched-battle-at-nangloi-101611701392192.html
27-01-2021||India||Home minister takes stock of situation in urgent meet||As groups of stick-wielding farmers on Tuesday clashed with the police and forced their way inside the iconic Red Fort to hoist a flag, Union home minister Amit Shah convened an urgent review meeting with senior officials, including home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar to assess law and order in the National Capital Region.Shah directed that additional central paramilitary forces be deployed in Delhi with immediate effect and individuals and groups behind the Red Fort seize be brought to justice, people familiar with the development said. The home minister was supposed to join his colleagues at the President’s ceremonial At Home event, which is a biannual gathering of ministers, diplomats, top bureaucrats in the lawns of Rashtrapati Bhawan after Republic Day and Independence Day, but had to skip it due to the situation that was unfolding.One of the officials cited above said intelligence agencies as well as the foreign ministry are particularly concerned over farmers hoisting a flag from the staff of Red Fort, from where India’s Prime Minister usually unfurls the national flag every year on Independence Day. In particular, the concerns were triggered by several Pakistani twitter accounts celebrating the incident. One of the handles purportedly belonged to All Pakistan Muslim League (APML), founded by former Pakistan President Pervez Musharaff, which said the flag hoisted by farmers was as a ‘Khalistani flag’. The claim could not be verified but agencies began monitoring social media.The government also decided to suspend internet for 12 hours at the five border points where protesters gathered - Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi.One of the officials said that additional 1,500 to 2,000 paramilitary forces’ jawans are being deployed in Delhi. Around 4,500 paramilitary personnel were already deployed for law and order duties before the Republic Day along with the Delhi Police.Delhi Police had given permission to the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws to conduct their tractor rally on some pre-selected routes but several groups deviated, determined to reach the heart of the Capital.The umbrella body of 41 farmers union, protesting against the laws since November 28 at Delhi borders, distanced itself from what they said were acts by anti-social elements.According to a second security official, the challenge for them was to move farmers out of the Red Fort and from their protest points inside the city to acceptable areas of protest. They wanted to achieve this in a manner that would be firm and yet peaceful. When asked if there had been any laxity in security, an official of the Intelligence Bureau said farmers had backed out of undertakings they had given. “This wasn’t the first time that the farmers had resorted to a form of violence. When they were first trying to come to Delhi at the beginning of the agitation, they had broken barriers then too,” said the official, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-takes-stock-of-situation-in-urgent-meet-101611701224423.html
27-01-2021||India||Leaders condemn violence, Opposition seeks repeal of laws||Opposition parties on Tuesday sought to mount pressure on the Union government after violence erupted during a protest by farmers who are opposing three new agricultural laws, but a section of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) maintained that the chaos on Delhi’s streets hinted at the role of “vested interests”.Senior BJP leaders went into a huddle with party chief JP Nadda, general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh and other senior leaders, including Rajya Sabha member and party general secretary Arun Singh, attending a meeting at the BJP headquarters in the Capital, said a person who did not want to be named.No details were shared about the meeting, but the functionary cited above said party leaders found similarities between the Republic Day protests and those against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA, in late 2019 and early 2020 that turned violent on occasions.A second senior leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the protests “corroborated” what the party had been alleging — that “anti-national elements” infiltrated the demonstrations. This functionary said there was a sense in the party that the protests were being fuelled by those with “vested interests”, and that the government’s outreach efforts were being “stonewalled”.The Opposition, including the Congress, alleges that the government rushed the farm laws without proper discussion in Parliament. The Centre, however, says the reforms will lead to new opportunities in agriculture trade.Former BJP national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao tweeted: “In Indian democracy u can have a mobilisation challenging govt on policies...sometimes it may appear as humiliating for d leaders who’re at helms but u can’t have a situation where its challenging d sovereignty of country n questioning d spirit of Indian Republic.”The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) condemned the violence. In a statement, RSS general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi said: “The violence and disturbances unleashed in Delhi today, the sacred Republic Day, are extremely painful and deplorable...RSS appeals to all countrymen to rise above political and ideological differences & to strive for peace as a priority.”In the Opposition camp, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said violence was not the solution to any problem, but asked the Centre to meet the demand of the farmers by repealing the laws. “...No matter who gets hurt, the country will suffer a damage. Take back the anti-agricultural laws in national interest,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.A statement by his party said: “The Congress party and the entire country is pained by today’s violence and unruly incidents in Delhi.”Former Union agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar took a potshot at the Centre.“No one will support such violence, but then the question arises: who forced them to indulge in such acts? It was the responsibility of the central government to talk to the farmers and solve this impasse,” he told the media in Mumbai.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Deeply disturbed by worrying and painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre’s insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers and sisters has to be blamed for this situation.”Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tweeted: “Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It’ll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-condemn-violence-opposition-seeks-repeal-of-laws-101611700790308.html
27-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers voice disappointment, anger in Punjab and Haryana||Anger and disappointment coursed through the hinterlands of Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday as farmers criticised the violence unleashed by their counterparts in the Capital, saying the clashes tarnished the peaceful image of the two-month-old protests and hurt the stir aimed at the repeal of three farm laws.Even farmers, who were earlier excited about the tractor rally and spent the day glued to their phones and television sets, said the violence on the streets of Delhi and outside the Red Fort weakened the movement.Harminder Singh, a 45-year- old farmer of Jalaldiwal village in Ludhiana, said the clashes will have far-reaching repercussions for the agitation that was hailed for the peaceful manner in which it was held.“These youngsters may be rejoicing after entering Red Fort but they have actually failed this agitation…It has dented the image of farmer protest,” said the man who owns 12 acres of land.Satnam Singh, a 43-year-old farmer of Bhoian village in Amritsar, said the tractor march should have been carried out as planned and that the violent scenes will damage the agitation backed by hundreds of thousands of farmers. “... There is no room for any kind of violence. Peace and unity are the most powerful weapons to win any battle,” said the farmer.These feelings were echoed by cultivators in Haryana.Balbir Singh, an elderly farmer from Kurukshetra, said ensuring peace was the responsibility of union leaders.”The government was testing their patience and they have failed badly,” he added.Ratan Mann , state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) condemned the incident. “Such people cannot be farmers and the government should investigate to find out forces behind this shameful act.”Some people said they initially wanted to join the rally but desisted after seeing scenes of violence play out on the roads. “We decided to return from Delhi soon after we came to know that some farmer leaders were planning to reach the Red Fort,” said Sandeep Kumar, a farmer from Gharaunda in Haryana’s Karnal district.Particularly harsh criticism was directed at the decision by some farmers to storm the Red Fort, where a protestor climbed an empty flag post and hoisted the Nishhan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, next to the Tricolour.Gurmeet Dhaliwal of Bathinda said the incident at the Red Fort was highly unfortunate and Malak Singh, a Karnal-based farmer, said nothing could replace the Indian national flag.Following the violence in Delhi, authorities in Punjab and Haryana sounded a high alert and said anyone taking law into one’s hands will be dealt with strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-voice-disappointment-anger-in-punjab-and-haryana-101611700580395.html
27-01-2021||India||Rally to langar: Peaceful stir held across 20 states||Farm bodies and unions across the country carried out protests, including tractor rallies, that were largely peaceful on Tuesday, in contrast to the violence seen in Delhi where farmers deviated from previously agreed-upon routes, broke through barricades, and stormed the Red Fort.Around the country, protests were reported from at least 20 states as farmers took out rallies and held gatherings in Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and even Himachal Pradesh, among others, to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year.In Punjab, farmers held a tractor parade in districts such as Patiala and Sangrur, which caused traffic jams , especially on highways leading into and out of Punjab, but there were no reports of violence.According to farmer bodies in Punjab, villages on the route organized food (langar) for the farmers and volunteers provided free medical services.Jang Singh, district president of Krantikari Kisaan Union, said Tuesday would be remembered across the country as a day when a huge number of people took to the streets to fight for their rights.“The farmers are not going to relent till the government repeals these three acts, which will destroy the livelihoods of the farmers if are implemented,” he said.Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have been at the border points of the national capital since November 26, 2020, demanding legal backing for minimum support price (MSP) as well as a complete repeal of the three newly-enacted farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — which they contend, will allow multinational companies to use the sector to maximise their profits at the expense of the farmers.The Centre has however held that the laws will not be repealed, but the government is willing to sit with the farmers to discuss the problematic clauses. The 11th round of negotiations between the state and farmers took place on January 22 ended in a deadlock.Farmer leaders said at least one person from each of the around 12,000 villages in Punjab was in Delhi to participate in the protests.In Haryana, farmers across the state carried out peaceful tractor marches and raised slogans against the Central government.Except Faridabad, where the police had to baton charge farmers trying to enter Delhi, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the state, said director general of police, Manoj Yadava. In many places, there was festive fervour at the tractor parades in which women from villages participated in large numbers, farmer leaders said.In Mumbai, the farmers concluded their protest at Azad Maidan, which began at noon with the unfurling of the flag, which was attended by farmers from across Maharashtra.Farmer leaders described the agitation as successful saying they were able to send a message that the state’s farmers are united against the farm laws.“The Mumbai agitation sent a message to the agitating farmers at Delhi’s borders that we are firmly behind them and will not relent till these regressive farm laws are withdrawn,” said Ajit Navale, convenor, Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) which organised this protest. The protest in Mumbai was supported by the state government.On Tuesday, 73-year old farmer Yamunabai hoisted the tricolor along with Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole. later in the day, farmers started leaving Mumbai for their homes.In Karnataka, protestors managed to enter Bengaluru in support of agitating farmers in Delhi. The Karnataka police on Monday afternoon agreed to allow around 125 tractors to enter the city.Social media was flooded with videos of farmers sloganeering after they were restricted from entering Bengaluru, where protestors planned to carry out a rally . “We are organising vehicles for all those who have gathered here to be taken into Bengaluru by other modes of transport,” said a farmer, who is coordinating efforts on the Mysuru highway.In Tamil Nadu, farmers and workers belonging to labour unions of the DMK and its allies including the Left parties participated in the tractor rally across various districts. While the rallies ended peacefully by afternoon, there were some minor clashes between the police and farmers in a few districts. No injuries were reported.The state’s main opposition party, DMK and its allies have protested and launched hunger strikes in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi in the recent months. However, the ruling AIADMK government, which is allied with the NDA, is in favour of the laws.In West Bengal, farmers and political parties held big rallies at several parts of the poll-bound state to show their strength.The biggest rallies of Left parties were in East Burdwan, Hooghly, Murshidabad and East Midnapore districts. “More than 600 tractors and two thousand motorcycles participated,” said Amal Haldar, senior peasant’s front leader of the CPIM.In Madhya Pradesh, farmer bodies claimed that tractor rallies were organised in at least 20 of the state’s 55 districts. Farmers also took out a 15-km long tractor and motorcycle rally in state capital Bhopal.Jagrut Kisan Sangathan convenor Irfan Jafri said that the Bhopal administration did not allow a tractor rally in urban areas, protestors took out the vehicle parade in the rural areas of Bhopal. In Barwani district, a 16-km bullock-cart parade was carried out.Rallies were also taken out in Raisen, Shivpuri, Bhind, Morena and Gwalior districts. “Farmers took out peaceful rallies even in Vindhya and Chambal regions,” said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh leader Subhash Pandey.In Jharkhand, the All India Kisan Sabha, Left parties, the Congress and RJD took out tractor and motorcycle rallies in different parts of the state.Farmer leaders also read the preamble of the Constitution and urged the Central government to respect it by withdrawing the three farm laws. Farm leaders said they would continue the protest till January 30.Farmer protests were also reported from Uttarakhand, Himachal, parts of Odisha, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rally-to-langar-peaceful-stir-held-across-20-states-101611696650066.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Tractors as weapons in the fiercest of face-offs||25-year-old farmer died on Tuesday and several farmers and policemen were injured following violent clashes between hundreds of protesting farmers and police in central Delhi’s ITO area during the tractor parade taken out by farm groups protesting three farm laws. The incident took place after a tractor overturned after being driven at high speed into a barricade near Andhra Education Society at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg crushing Navreet Singh, a farmer from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh.While protesters alleged that the deceased lost control of the tractor after a tear gas shell hit him, police said the incident happened when the driver hit the barricade.DCP (central) Jasmeet Singh said in the CCTV footages and videos of the incident it is apparent that the tractor toppled after hitting a barrier which led to the death of a man.A senior officer said police are in process of registering a case to probe the death. “In this case either inquest proceedings will be done or a case of accident will be registered,” the officer said requesting anonymity.The scenes of farmers charging at police with their tractors were caught on camera.Mintu Bajwa, a friend of the deceased, claimed Singh was disoriented after being hit by a tear gas shell.The first standoff in central Delhi began around noon when the tractor parade from Ghazipur border took a left turn from Vikas Minar and reached ITO. Protesters damaged police buses and barricades set up to restrict their movement. Farmers blocked both Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg leading to Red Fort and Indraprastha Marg leading to Vikas Marg .They were not supposed to be at ITO according to an agreement hammered out between farm union leaders and the police.ITO was a war zone for a few hours, with police trying, in vain, to disperse the farmers using tear gas. At around 1pm, a baton charge seemed to give the police the upper hand till the protestors ran amok with their tractors. Road dividers were also dismantled and used as weapons.The sudden attack by farmers took the police by surprise and they retreated.By 1.30pm, protesters managed to break through the barricades and drove towards Red Fort through Delhi Gate-Daryaganj route to land at the monument, where farmers from Singhu had already arrived.Bindar Singh, 25, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala was among those injured at ITO. Pointing towards an injury near his right eye, he said, “It happened when police lobbed tear gas shells at us while we were marching towards Red Fort. They said we changed routes. But when all citizens can go to the historical monument, why are we the only ones being stopped?”Till Tuesday evening, hundreds of farmers were still camped at the ITO intersection. Around 5.30pm, Bajwa and others approached the police and asked for an ambulance so that they could remove Singh’s body -- this was immediately arranged.By 6.15pm, most protestors had dispersed though some still lingered, and the police took charge. Movement of vehicles was soon restored on the arterial Vikas Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-tractors-as-weapons-in-the-fiercest-of-faceoffs-101611695601193.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: As most went off track, some groups stuck to agreed plan||While large groups of farmers deviated from the routes for which they had permission to carry out their protest, several farmer groups — under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — carried out the tractor parade on permissible routes and later in the evening, called off the tractor parade and sent out an appeal to farmers to return to the protest sites to continue with their peaceful agitation.SKM, an umbrella collective of over 40 farmer groups, called off the tractor parade on Tuesday evening. “Samyukt Kisan Morcha has called off the Kisan Republic Day Parade with immediate effect, and has appealed to all participants to immediately return to their protest sites,” the group said in a statement adding that the protest will continue peacefully.Baldev Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said they marched on the agreed upon route because they wanted the protests to remain peaceful. “Hundreds of farmers were marching with us on the decided route because we wanted to keep our word and let the protests remain peaceful. We learnt only after some time that protesters had taken other routes. We were walking and tried our best to ensure there was no violence but there were some miscreants who did not listen,” he said.“We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s Farmers Republic Day Parade. We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” they said in a statement in the evening.“Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength and any violation will hurt the movement,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-as-most-went-off-track-some-groups-stuck-to-agreed-plan-101611695088602.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Within hours, cheers, celebration at Tikri gave way to chaos||The farmers were supposed to leave at 12 noon in their tractors from Tikri border, turn off at Nangloi towards Najafgarh and proceed further to the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway, finally returning to the site where they have been camping for more than two months. Instead, they left at 8.30 am and within three hours, many of them had broken police barricades to travel on another route. By evening, many tractors had broken away from the convoy to proceed towards Red Fort, where other farmers had also congregated.In the Tikri tractor parade, the atmosphere was convivial: gleaming tractors adorned with tricolour flags blared Punjabi and Haryanvi songs, as thousands of farmers — most of them men — waved at the residents who had gathered on rooftops and balconies to watch what promised to be a spectacle unlike anything else.Even though it was meant to be a tractor parade, many rode bikes, drove jeeps, and walked along, holding the Indian flag as well as those of farmers organisations. Residents of many neighbourhoods showered flower petals over them. Many distributed packets of water along the way; large vessels bearing rice and dal awaited the hungry protesters. At Mundka, a group of local residents organised a dance set to the beat of dhols for their entertainment. Posters with the message, “We support farmers” were spotted at different locations.When the farmers reached Nangloi at 11 am, the cheer and celebration turned into clashes within 45 minutes, as some farmer groups breached their route agreement and tried to move on roads they did not have permission for. The protestors removed the police barricades — including the concrete ones — and made their way towards Peeragarhi at around 11.50am. The police responded by using tear gas to disperse the crowd, and some even used their cane sticks on protestors. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation closed down stations that lay along this route, and later shut down the entire Green Line that ends at Tikri Kalan.By 5pm, several tractors had made their way towards Red Fort, even as a majority of them had turned back towards their Tikri campsite. “We had requested the police to peacefully allow us to take out the march till the Red Fort. They denied and started firing tear gas shells. Farmers got provoked and removed the barricades,” said Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Rohtak.Among the protesters was 70-year-old Roshini Kaur who rode on a tractor driven by her daughter-in-law Harpreet Kaur (28). A resident of Haryana’s Jind district, Kaur said that she has been staying at the Tikri border for the last one month. “We are poor farmers and we will lose everything if we won’t fight against these three farm laws now. We are already indebted. We are not left with much to lose now,” she said.Farm union leaders at Tikri border maintained that those who indulged in violence and vandalism were not part of any union or organisation. “Majority of the protesters took the approved route and peacefully took out the parade. We reached back at our protest site by 7.15 pm. Those who created ruckus were not the members of any farm organisation,” said Baldev Singh, district president of BKU (Dkunda) in Bhatinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-within-hours-cheers-celebration-at-tikri-gave-way-to-chaos-101611694335835.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: March to ITO began at Ghazipur||In Ghazipur, the friction started to build up around 8.30am when the farmers decided to start the march, defying an agreement with the police that they would do so only after 11am to avoid any possible disruption of the Republic Day parade in the morning.By 9.30am, a group of farmers started the march; they also used trolleys attached to the tractors, despite agreeing not to use them in their previous discussions with the police.Each tractor seated around four; each trolley, around 10. They were decorated with Indian flags and sported loudspeakers blaring songs.Around 9.40am, the groups broke the first set of police barricades set up near the Ghazipur border and started marching towards the city.Between then and 12 noon, farmer groups and police officials clashed at multiple points that include the toll tax collection centre in the Delhi-Meerut expressway, near Akshardham temple, at Sarai Kale Khan, below the ITO flyover, and later at the ITO intersection from where large number of protesters headed towards the Red Fort in North Delhi.The Delhi Police in a statement said that they had made necessary arrangement and deployment of security personnel for the tractor rally as per the agreement they had with the farmers.“Delhi Police personnel showed resistance till the end but the protesting farmers breached the agreement and began their tractor rally much before the scheduled time. Since farmers resorted to violence and vandalism, the police had to take necessary steps to maintain the law and order. The agitation led to damage of public property and many police personnel were also injured. The protesters were asked to stop violence, maintain peace and return,” the police said.A separate group of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand marched towards the Ghazipur roundabout, by taking a stretch of NH 24, headed towards Apsara border, covered Loni and parts of Ghaziabad and then headed back to Ghazipur, largely without incident.The farmers were carrying supplies, utensils, and also chains, hooks and ropes to dismantle barricades.The number of people or vehicles which started from Ghazipur is yet to be ascertained by the policeThe police had to resort to a baton charge and fired tear gas at multiple points. The farmers broke down not only barricades but also attacked police vehicles and public buses.One farmer died and 10 others were injured while 86 police personnel were hurt in the clashes and violence reported from various locations.As farmer groups from Ghazipur marched towards the heart of the city, throwing traffic out of gear in large parts of east Delhi, south-east Delhi, and central Delhi. Many motorists fled on foot leaving their vehicles behind in order to avoid conflict with the marching groups.The last minute change of plans — initially regarding timings of the protest march and later regarding the routes to be taken — also exposed differences between protesting farmers and leaders of farm groups who had hammered out an agreement with Delhi police on the timing and routes.Bharatiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait sought to play down the issue: “It looks like some protesters got carried away. On our part, we are doing our beat to ensure that protesters adhere to the terms and conditions of the police.”However, several participants in the march said they had never agreed to the conditions of the police. “We never agreed to the conditions given by the police. What’s the point of the march if we cannot take it to Ring Road and go into the city?” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer from UP.Several police officials and farmers were injured in East Delhi’s Ghazipur area on Tuesday after farm groups participating in a tractor march to protest three farm laws, broke barricades, clashed with police, and deviated from an agreed-upon route for the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-march-to-ito-began-at-ghazipur-101611693829415.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||From farm to fist: Violence started at Singhu, one barrier at a time||When the tractor rally left the Singhu Border around 7.30 am on Tuesday, the farmers were breaking the terms of their understanding with the police, that the march wouldn’t begin until 12 noon.Over the next three hours, they stuck to the route they had agreed on with the police, although each tractor was packed with more people than was allowed. But once one tractor dared to remove a heavy concrete barricade, others followed suit. All terms and conditions were forgotten in a display of brute force through the 30 km route to Red Fort instead of the 63 km one they were supposed to take . They used their tractors, cranes, even bare hands to deal with barricades. When the tear gas bothered them, they simply snatched tear gas guns from policemen.Singhu Border has been the most prominent protest site for the farmers at Delhi’s border for the last two months. It has received the most media attention and according to farm union leaders also seen the largest gathering of farmers. According to the farmers’ agreement with the police, they were to take a right turn towards Shahbad Dairy from the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, almost 13km from Singhu Border on the GT Karnal Road.The farmers marched out from Singhu around 7.30 am. Tractors stayed in a single queue on one carriageway, but both the sides of the road were occupied by thousands of farmers marching on foot. “There are just so many farmers that tractors have fallen short,” said Satnam Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran driving one of the tractors.Police vehicles followed the tractors even as farmer volunteers ensured that tractors breaking the queue were disciplined. Tractors barely ever crossed a speed of 15 km/hr.But when they arrived at the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar from where they were to get off the GT Karnal Road and take a right turn as agreed, the farmers kept marching.Police had set multiple levels of barricades at this point and put up signboards showing directions to the planned route.When farmers said they wanted to march onto the Outer Ring Road, the police made announcements on loudspeakers to persuade them otherwise. “Dilli Police, dil ki police, dil se vinati karti hai ki... (The Delhi Police, the police of hearts, requests with all our heart to...),” an announcement said.AK Singla, additional commissioner of traffic police even walked to the farmers who were sitting on the road in large groups, but it didn’t yield results.But by this time, farmers in one tractor had tied chains to a heavy concrete barricade and pulled it away. The police fired a tear gas shell but it had little impact. Another farmer commandeered a large crane from somewhere and used it to rapidly remove more barricades.The farmers who had come prepared with heavy chains and ropes had no problem taking control of police vehicles, including water cannons.The police fired more tear gas shells. The farmers responded with stones. A Nihang Sikh riding a horse pulled out his sword and waved it at some policemen. Some farmers snatched the tear gas guns from the policemen.Others chose to smash police vehicles and a fleet of buses parked along the route.By 11.10 am, the farmers had breached all the barricades and set out towards the Ring Road.Over the next two hours, they faced some more barricades hurdles near the Burari ground and in Majnu ka Tilla , but they made short work of these.By 1.30pm, they arrived at Red Fort, their destination all along.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-farm-to-fist-violence-started-at-singhu-one-barrier-at-a-time-101611692151812.html
27-01-2021||India||Farmers' tractor rally violence: Dark day for the Republic||This is how it ends, not in order, but chaos, not peacefully, but violently; and not as a concerted display of farmer power, but a descent into chaos best exemplified by images of tractors being driven at high speed, in circles, at ITO in the centre of the national capital, threatening to run over anyone in the way.This was not how it was supposed to be. The 62-day-long farm protest, seen by many as a fight of the small man against the State, was expected to reach a climax of sorts with a tractor rally through three designated routes in Delhi. Farm unions that hammered out a compromise with Delhi Police that made this possible, promised a display of pageantry that would rival the morning’s Republic Day parade.This was how it actually was: one of the groups from Ghazipur deviated from their agreed-upon route, and reached ITO, where they ran riot; another, from Singhu border, deliberately took a turn they were not meant to, and stormed the Red Fort, where one of the protesters climbed the first available flag post (it was empty and not the one where the national flag always flies) and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, and subsequently engaged in a violent clash with policemen who were trying to disperse them.This was how it actually was: one of the groups from Ghazipur deviated from their agreed-upon route, and reached ITO, where they ran riot; another, from Singhu border, deliberately took a turn they were not meant to, and stormed the Red Fort, where one of the protesters climbed the first available flag post (it was empty and not the one where the national flag always flies) and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, and subsequently engaged in a violent clash with policemen who were trying to disperse them.As much as the Union government can be blamed for letting things come to such a pass, as much as Delhi Police can be faulted for intelligence failure for not anticipating the events of the day, the ultimate blame has to lie with the farmers, and their leaders, who are now saying how certain unions did not agree with the plans for the tractor rally decided mutually with Delhi Police and took matters into their own hands.Darshan Pal, one of the leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body coordinating the protests, condemned the violence, and tried to dissociate himself from it. “Undesirable and unacceptable events have taken place today. We dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” he said. But it won’t be easy to blame the rampage on fringe elements or others embedded among the protesters as part of a conspiracy (although theories to this effect are already doing the rounds). This was simply a protest that got horribly out of hand; a march where the leaders were either absent or not able to control the crowd.The protesters may have genuine concerns about the farm laws, but images of tractors being used to ram through buses and barricades, armed men with swords on horses trying to run down policemen, and the police rushing containers, buses and barriers to block key roads in central Delhi meant that the immediate concern was not the laws but law and order.A protesting farmer died after his tractor overturned at ITO during the rally on Tuesday, police said. A video showed the tractor ramming into a police barricade.The police fired tear gas shells and resorted to baton charges at several poiseveral points where clashes broke out. Delhi Police said 83 personnel were injured after being attacked by agitating farmers. “Protesters turned violent at some places. Many police personnel were injured and public property also damaged. I appeal to protesters to return through the designated routes and maintain peace,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal.Some groups of farmers began returning to their respective sit-in sites in the evening after hours of clashes, but thousands could still be seen in several areas including ITO, Nangloi and Mukarba Chowk. Visuals also showed people gathered at the Red Fort. Mobile internet services were suspended in three Haryana districts of Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal for 24 hours ending 5pm Wednesday, the state government said on Tuesday evening, as violent protests rocked Delhi. Mobile internet was restricted by the police in some parts of the national capital and several Metro stations were also shut down temporarily through the day.Several questions remain.Will the farmers continue their protest?The Samyukt Kisan Morcha called off the “Kisan Republic Day Parade” in the evening and appealed to all participants to return to their respective protest sites. The organisation announced that the movement will “continue peacefully” and further steps will be discussed and decided soon.Will the government continue to hold out its offer of deferring the laws by 18 months while talks continue?Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that farmers should accept the government’s proposal to suspend the laws. Tomar did not speak about the government’s next move on Tuesday evening.Will Delhi Police and the home ministry act against the farm groups?Delhi Police said that legal action will be taken against those who assaulted police personnel during the farmers’ rally. Union home minister Amit Shah held a review meeting with senior officials, including home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar, to assess the law and order situation. The Union home ministry will deploy additional paramilitary forces in the national capital after the clashes, people aware of the developments said.And will the Supreme Court, which has sidestepped the issue thus far, finally deal itself a hand to resolve the crisis?India’s 72nd Republic Day, it was expected, would be a celebration of the soldier in the morning and the farmer in the afternoon, a real-life display of Lal Bahadur Shastri’s popular slogan Jai Jawan; Jai Kisan. Instead, it ended up showcasing ugly scenes of violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-tractor-rally-dark-day-for-the-republic-101611688709228.html
27-01-2021||India||Union leaders make appeal, divert blame after anarchy reigns||Leaders of farm unions protesting three new agricultural laws, shaken by the events of the day, took recourse to the cliche of “anti social elements” among the protestors, as they desperately sought to deflect the blame for the violent actions of thousands of protesters, who knocked down barricades, clashed with police, and breached the Red Fort as they drove through the nation’s capital in tractors on Republic Day.The chaos and violence have raised questions about the future of the two-month-long agitation of farm unions. Leaders offered conflicting explanations of what happened. Only at dusk, by which time farmers had run riot through parts of the Capital, did the main organiser of the protests, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, deem it fit to call off the tractor march, asking all farmers to return to their camps on Delhi’s borders.Samyukt Kisan Morcha insisted a majority of the protesters stuck to agreed routes and were peaceful, and dissociated itself with a large section of farmers who broke ranks to unleash chaos in the heart of the Capital.Thousands of farmers drove tractors from the borders of Delhi into the city for a massive tractor rally on Tuesday. Soon, they defied police orders and turned towards important institutions in the centre of Delhi, creating a security nightmare on Republic Day.They hoisted Sikh religious flags atop the Red Fort from where the Prime Minister delivers his Independence Day speech. Riot police beat protestors with batons and fired tear gas to scatter mobs at several places in Delhi. In return, the protesters tried to run down policemen with their tractors.By noon, top leaders of the farm unions, who repeatedly appealed for a peaceful march, appeared to have lost control over large breakaway factions of farmers as mobs left routes approved for their to march and reached central Delhi, which they were supposed to avoid according to an agreement reached between police and the farm unions. As mobs infiltrated the Red Fort and the ITO area, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha hurriedly issued a statement.“Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement,” the unions’ statement said, without providing any evidence of such infiltration. The farm unions described the events as “unacceptable”. Their leaders said they “dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts”. Cracks have appeared in the unions over the violence. Some farm leaders blamed one farmers’ organisation, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, for not accepting an agreement between the farm unions and Delhi Police on routes. “The first group that broke the set routes was not part of the Punjab platform, and since yesterday, farmer leaders from Samyukt Kisan Morcha were pleading with them not to do this,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farm leader. Kuruganti was referring to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, a farmers’ organisation led by SS Pannu and SS Pandher. Pandher blamed police for beating farmers first. Kuruganti blamed the organisation for breaking rules to start the parade two hours earlier than scheduled and breaking routes, leading to the first clashes at Mukarba Chowk, a major junction. “We still don’t know who all went into the Red Fort,” Kuruganti said.HT’s reporting shows that groups from Singhu border and Ghazipur reached Red Fort.Several farmer leaders blamed actor Deep Sidhu for the chaos at Red Fort. Sidhu, who acted in Punjabi films before campaigning for candidates in the 2019 general elections, was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) two weeks ago in connection with a sedition case against US-based banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice.Darshan Pal, a key organiser of the protests, admitted some farmer organisations broke ranks. “It is unfortunate. We have appealed to everybody to return to their bases. Those who stay put in the Capital will have to face the law.” A senior farm leader, speaking on condition of anonymity, alleged that the faction that broke away in the Ghazipur area was led by the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Pal said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha would probe the “unexpected” turn of events, which could weaken the farmers’ agitation, but said the peaceful protests would continue.“It is deeply embarrassing and anguishing for us. It has definitely dented our image. We will have to reassess our strategies,” one farm leader said, requesting anonymity. “Peace is our strength. If peace is broken, then our strength is broken,” said Yogendra Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-leaders-make-appeal-divert-blame-after-anarchy-reigns-101611686912418.html
27-01-2021||Delhi||DMRC closes multiple metro stations in Delhi after violence at farmers’ tractor rally||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday ordered closure of several metro stations in the city, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws. The clashes were reported from several areas of the national capital as farmers, who took out a tractor rally, tried to enter central Delhi.Multiple closures were announced by DMRC through its social media handles as a security measure.Entry and exit gates of all stations of Line-9 or grey line connecting Dwarka to Najafgarh has been declared closed. Following it, DMRC had also announced that entry and exit gates of Jama Masjid metro station, Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil and Mansarovar park have been closed too, as a security measure.Also read: Mobile internet suspended for 12 hours at 5 protest sites in DelhiOn the green line, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan, Ghevra, Mundka Industrial Area, Mundka, Rajdhani Park, Nangloi Railway Station, Nangloi stations, were closed. However, exit was still permitted. The exit gate of Lal Quila (Red Fort) metro station was also closed.Earlier in the day, protesting farmers deviated from the routes approved for the tractor rally, breaking through police barricades and defying tear gas. Thousands of tractors were seen on the roads in and around central Delhi as protesters marched towards ITO and Minto Road.The metro stations at Indraprastha and ITO were closed due to security reasons.Traffic has also been affected in the city following the protests. Despite earlier arrangements made, Delhi Traffic Police advised the public to “avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road, Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas marg, ITO, NH 24, Nizammudin Khatta, Noida link road, Peeragarhi & Outer Delhi, East & West Delhi border areas due to ongoing farmer protests.”Initially, the protesting farmer unions have announced that the tractor rally would be taken along three routes starting from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. However, some groups of farmers deviated from the proposed route and entered the Delhi city along with their tractors. In the clashes that ensued, police had resorted to lathi charge and tear gas shelling at many areas including Nangloi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-closes-several-metro-stations-in-delhi-farmers-tractor-rally-turns-violent-101611660273741.html
