31-01-2021||India||No point in opposition leaders seeking votes at protest sites, may raise the issue in Parliament: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said there would be no point in opposition leaders seeking votes from farmers for their support to the agitation against the farm laws adding that they could raise the issue in parliament.While talking to ANI at the Ghazipur border Tikait said, "We don't have any business with opposition parties. The opposition leaders must be coming out of empathy but there's no point for them to look for votes at the protest sites. It is not their protest.""Opposition may raise the issue in parliament," he added.The farmer leader said that the farm issue can only be settled through dialogue. "We will talk to the government as we believe that the issue can only be settled with dialogue," he added.Tikait had earlier said there will not be any agreement "under pressure". They will hold discussions on the farm law issue only after their people are released from jail, he said.The farmer leader had earlier stated that they will honour the dignity of the Prime Minister but also ensure that the self-respect of farmers is protected.So far, several rounds of talks have remained inconclusive between farmer leaders and government representatives on the farm issues.Days after the violent incidents during farmers tractor rally on January 26, PM Modi had on Saturday said that the government's proposal to farmers on suspending the three farm laws for 18 months still stands.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-point-in-opposition-leaders-seeking-votes-at-protest-sites-rakesh-tikait-101612115763613.html
31-01-2021||India||Farm laws a 'fire' which would lead to losses: Naresh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union national president Naresh Tikait has termed farm laws a "fire" (aag) which would lead to losses and has urged the Centre to repeal them.A video of Tikait speaking to reporters in Muzaffarnagar was shared on social media on Sunday.In the video, he said, "Repeal this bill, this is a fire. This is a fire which will lead to many losses. (iss bill ko dabaa do, yeh aag hai, yeh bahut nuksaan ki aag hai). If the laws are repealed then the government does not stand to lose anything. The bills have put on hold for one-and-half years. Accept your fault, and hold talks."Tikait also said, "In this government, Rajnath (Singh) jee is being humiliated (Rajnath jee ki tauheen ho rahi hai iss sarkaar mein). There is nothing in the control of our MPs, they are feeling afraid, and their sympathy is with the farmers."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-a-fire-which-would-lead-to-losses-naresh-tikait-101612110327603.html
31-01-2021||India||Delhi Police tracking owners of tractors that took wrong route on Republic Day||Delhi Police is tracking the addresses of tractor owners who took the wrong route during farmers' tractor rally on January 26, and sending them notices, said BK Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police, Delhi.Singh said a team from National Forensic Sciences University visited various spots in the national capital today and is also analysing videos collected by Delhi police of Republic day violence in Delhi."A team from National Forensic Sciences University is analysing videos of January 26 violence in Delhi. They visited various spots in Delhi today. Delhi Police's Crime Branch received more than 5,000 video footages and photos from the public," he informed.Also Read | Farmers deeply hurt by BJP's moves to defame them: Akhilesh Yadav"Videos of the wrong route the mob took on Republic Day are being collected. More than 50 notices have been issued. The tractors' registration numbers have been sent to licensing authority to track addresses of owners of tractors. Notices are being sent to them as well," ACP added.The Crime Branch of Delhi Police is seeking CCTV footage from traffic police, local police, National Highways Authority of India, Public Works Department, Municipal Corporation of Delhi, and resident welfare associations at Najafgarh, Nangloi, NH-9, and other places where the January 26 violence took place.To identify the accused in these videos, the National Forensics University, Gujarat has been roped in. The two teams that have already reached Delhi will help the Crime Branch identify the faces of the criminals which will be then run through the Face recognition system.The phone location of people including those seen in the videos is also being traced.Also Read | Farmers' stir: Thousands converge for third 'mahapanchayat' in western UPDelhi police on Saturday said its Crime branch has received 1,700 mobile clips and CCTV footage from the public in connection with the January 26 violence during farmers' tractor rally.On Republic Day, protestors did not follow the prearranged route and broke barricades to enter Delhi, clashed with police and vandalised property in several parts of the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws. They also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-tracking-owners-of-tractors-that-took-wrong-route-on-republic-day-101612109386484.html
31-01-2021||India||Farmers deeply hurt by BJP's moves to defame them: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the farmers were deeply hurt by the moves made by the BJP to defame them.He also alleged that the BJP has tortured common people."The farmers are feeling deeply hurt because of the moves made by the BJP to defame them. The BJP has enacted demonetisation, GST, labour laws and farm laws to give benefits only to the billionaires. The BJP has tortured the common people," the Samajwadi Party chief said in a tweet in Hindi.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protest took a violent turn during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26.Enacted in September 2020, the central government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-deeply-hurt-by-bjp-s-moves-to-defame-them-akhilesh-yadav-101612086693429.html
31-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers converge for third 'mahapanchayat' in western UP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers' stir: Thousands converge for third 'mahapanchayat' in western UPThe ripples of farmers' protest against the new agri laws on Delhi's borders spread further in western Uttar Pradesh with thousands of people converging for a 'mahapanchayat' on Sunday in Baghpat, the third such congregation in the region in as many days. Read moreTMC accuses BJP of insulting National Anthem, starts poll on social mediaThe ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of distorting and insulting the National Anthem and launched a voting on social media asking whether the saffron party was a “shame for the country or humanity”. Read morePassport applicants in Bihar drop by half as Covid-19 hits movement abroadWhile there were fewer people seeking mobility using rails and roads during Covid-19 period and subsequent lockdowns, those aspiring to migrate outside the country from Bihar also felt the impact of the pandemic. Read more'He guided me as a leader and taught me everything': Kuldeep Yadav highlights Gautam Gambhir's role early in his careerKuldeep Yadav was not even 20 years old when he got picked by Kolkata Knight Riders in the Indian Premier League auction. Kuldeep was coming off the Under-19 World Cup in 2014 when he grabbed the attention of KKR, and not only did he get to be part of the team, he even played his first game for the team in the Champions League later that year. Read moreXbox Series X review: Silent and beastlyThe gaming market is an upward-facing graph in India now and companies like Microsoft are trying to make the best of it. And its latest and most powerful gaming console, the Xbox Series X, is the prime example of that. Read more4-year-old girl discovers well-preserved dinosaur footprint on a beach in the UKIt isn't unusual to hear stories about odd things being found at the beach. From strange sea creatures to even unfamiliar fossils, tales of such discoveries often captivate netizens. Read more‘We honor PM, ready for talks but not under pressure’: BKU's Rakesh TikaitBKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that protesting farmers will honor the dignity of the prime minister, but are also committed to protecting their self-respect, a day after Narendra Modi said his government was just a "phone call away" for talks with them. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-converge-for-third-mahapanchayat-in-western-up-and-all-the-latest-news-101612105511799.html
31-01-2021||India||Farmers' stir: Thousands converge for third 'mahapanchayat' in western UP||The ripples of farmers' protest against the new agri laws on Delhi's borders spread further in western Uttar Pradesh with thousands of people converging for a 'mahapanchayat' on Sunday in Baghpat, the third such congregation in the region in as many days.The 'sarv khap mahapanchayat' took place at the Tehsil ground here with farmers pouring in from nearby districts as well in tractor-trollies, many of which are decked up with music systems, the tricolor and farmer unions' flags.This is the third 'mahapanchayat' of farmers in the region after a massive congregation in Muzaffarnagar on Friday and in Mathura on Saturday, both resolving to support the ongoing BKU-led protest at the Ghazipur border against the three new farm laws.BKU leader Rajendra Chaudhary told the crowd, “the movement has to be continued with full strength.”The 'mahapanchayat' is also deliberating on the January 26 police action against farmers protesting in Baghpat district against the new central farm laws, a local Baraut resident, who is attending the event, told PTI.Also Read | Not only BJP, PM Modi's credibility has been dented due to lies over farm laws: Manish SisodiaChaudhary Surendra Singh of the Desh Khap and Chaudhary Subhash Singh of the Chaubisi Khap are among key regional farmer leaders attending Sunday's 'sarv khap mahapanchayat', where supporters of Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) were also present.A khap is a traditional social council representing a community or a region in parts of north India with a Chaudhary as its titular head."Beshak Dilli mein police walon ne kisano ko dande maare hon, par hum aaj bhi bolte hain 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' (No doubt policemen hit farmers with batons in Delhi, but we are nevertheless saying: hail soldiers, hail farmers),” a local leader told the crowd from the stage.“Whatever happens, we will respond with non-violence and not violence. Our leaders at protest sites and our panch (leaders of the panchayat) will make decisions and we all will follow them,” he added.The two-month-long protest against the farm laws appeared to be losing steam after widespread violence during a tractor parade by farmers on the Republic Day, but an emotional appeal by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait gave it a fresh lease of life with thousands of farmers gathering at the Gazipur protest site and the 'mahapanchayats' from western UP extending support to the stir.The farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP, have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-thousands-converge-for-third-mahapanchayat-in-western-up-101612100175125.html
31-01-2021||India||AAP will take legal action against BJP: Sisodia over doctored video of Kejriwal||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that his party will take legal action against BJP for allegedly sharing a doctored video of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on social media.A BJP spokesperson had tweeted a video claiming that Kejriwal has supported the three contentious farm laws.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said, "The BJP knows that Kejriwal is the only leader with credibility and hence they have used his doctored interview to create a false impression among the people."Also Read | Not only BJP, PM Modi's credibility has been dented due to lies over farm laws: Manish Sisodia"This doctored video was created by selectively editing a long interview of Kejriwal and placing fake bytes in some places. The Aam Aadmi Party will not allow such machinations by the BJP and will take legal action against them," he said.Sisodia claimed that since the BJP has "failed in all its machinations" against the farmers, they plotted a new scheme riding on Kejriwal's popularity."We pity the BJP's tactics who despite having their government at the Centre and in many states, have lost people's trust and hence have to use Arvind Kejriwal's doctored video to save the farm laws," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-will-take-legal-action-against-bjp-sisodia-over-doctored-video-of-kejriwal-101612098626433.html
31-01-2021||India||You have a responsibility: AAP’s Raghav Chadha writes to Punjab CM, demands security for protesters||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday asked Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, to deploy police personnel from his state on camps around the borders of Delhi where the farmers are protesting against the three farm laws demanding their immediate withdrawal."Aam Aadmi Party demands that you deploy Punjab Police in sufficient numbers to surround the camps where the peaceful protests are being held from all sides. The Punjab Police must provide protection to our farmers brothers and sisters so no harm is done to them and they can continue to protest against the black laws in a peaceful manner," Chadha wrote in the letter.The AAP leader while taking a jibe at Singh and his Congress colleague Sunil Jhakar said, if Punjab police can go to Delhi with politicians, officers and random protectees of the state then why can’t they be deployed for the safety of the farmers.I write to @capt_amarinder Saab demanding deployment of Punjab Police to safeguard safety and security of peacefully protesting farmers, in the light of recent attacks on them engineered and executed by goons from BJP. pic.twitter.com/G3SpGNRmuY"I ask Captain Saab to advise his colleague Sh. Sunil Jhakar to eschew lying in public and embarrassing himself further. If Punjab Police cavalcade can go to Delhi along with Netas, officers and even random protectees of the State - then why can't they be deployed to protect farmers," the leader tweeted.Referring to the safety of the farmers in the light of the events following the Republic Day tractors rally, Chadha said in this letter, "While we understand until now you have turned a blind eye to the plight of the farmers, it is a matter of great shock and surprise that we are having to bring it to your attention that they are under the threat of physical violence and attack from the goons of BJP."Last Friday, clashes broke out at the Singhu border when some counter-protesters began stone pelting on the farmers protesting on the site. Earlier that day, AAP leaders Satyender Jain and Chadha had also alleged that the Delhi Police are not letting them enter the protest site nor are they allowing tankers from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to enter.Also Read | PM Modi's credibility has been dented due to lies over farm laws: Manish SisodiaThe ruling party in the national capital has extended its support to the farmers protesting against the three new agricultural laws enacted by the Centre. Earlier this week, electricity and water supply to the protesting sites of Delhi were snapped in an attempt to vacate the area. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait was also served with the notice to vacate the Ghazipur border protest site. The Delhi government had then extended its support by ensuring that the sites are able to access basic amenities like food, clean water and toilets.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had also visited the Ghazipur border to ensure all the services, especially water supply, have reached the protesting sites.Protesters from several states have been agitating against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, since past November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-have-a-responsibility-aap-s-raghav-chadha-writes-to-punjab-cm-demands-security-for-protesters-101612088850413.html
31-01-2021||India||Farmers 'ill-treatment' by PM Modi, Shah, may trigger unrest: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday cautioned the Central government over its handling of the ongoing farmers' protests against the three farm laws and said that the country has already experienced what happens when a spark of revolt was lit in the Sikh community. Raut, in his weekly column, said the politics is driving the country towards instability.The Sena leader in his column RokhThok, in party mouthpiece Saamana, said that the ill-treatment of the farmers’ from Punjab, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, would spark unrest in the country.On January 26, during the farmers’ tractor rally, groups of farmers deviated from the assigned routes, broke through security barriers and clashed with security personnel in several parts of Delhi. They also vandalised property and entered the Red Fort, where they hoisted the Nishan Sahib flag.Raut said that the events of January 26 could have been avoided by the Centre. He alleged that the ‘infiltration’ at Red Fort was engineered to cause a split among the protesting farmers.Raut also questioned the silence of PM Modi and Amit Shah over the entire issue. “Neither the Prime Minister has spoken, nor has our home minister. Modi and Shah are leading the country by occupying constitutional posts. Such a treatment of Punjab’s farmers is sparking unrest in the country,” the Sena leader wrote.He further added, “The country has once experienced what happens when a spark of revolt is lit in the Sikhs. Therefore, linking the farmer’s stir to Punjab’s issues and causing unrest in Punjab should not happen. The government has engineered a split in the farmers’ protest. The infiltration at Red Fort was done to cause a split. Politics is driving the country toward instability. This needs to be stopped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-ill-treatment-by-pm-modi-shah-may-trigger-unrest-sanjay-raut-101612085281122.html
31-01-2021||India||No question of closing door on talks with govt over farm laws: Farm union||There is no question of farmer organisations closing the door on talks with the government, said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday, adding they had noted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statements made earlier in the day about the Centre standing by its offer.In a statement signed by farmer leader Darshan Pal, the SKM said that it would continue to seek a full repeal of the three farm laws and a legal entitlement guaranteeing Minimum Support Price (MSP).Also Read | ‘Not going to war’: Farmers’ leader calls for peaceful protest"Samyukta Kisan Morcha noted the statement made by the Prime Minister about the Centre standing by its offer... Farmers have come all the way to the doorsteps of Delhi to converse with their elected government and therefore, there is no question of the farmer organisations closing the door on talks with the government," the statement said.It further noted that a one-day fast was observed across the country and farmers paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his martyr day."Learning from the life of Gandhiji, farmers took a pledge to keep fighting this movement peacefully," the statement said, adding that reports of Sadbhavana Diwas were coming in from all over the country, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Hayana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.The SKM further condemned attempts of the police to weaken the agitation by "unlawful use of security forces."Also Read | ‘Repeal of laws must to resolve impasse’: SAD president Sukbir Singh Badal"The continuous violence by the police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) goons clearly shows the palpable fear within the government. Police is randomly arresting protesters and journalists at protest sites," the statement said.The farmers' body demanded the immediate release of all peaceful protesters and condemn the attacks on journalists who have been covering the protest.Earlier on Thursday, Delhi witnessed chaotic and violent scenes during the tractor march by farmers on Republic Day to protest against three farm laws.The next round of talks between the farmers and the Centre is scheduled for February 2.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26, 2020, against the farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-question-of-closing-door-on-talks-with-govt-over-farm-laws-farm-union-101612056306606.html
31-01-2021||India||Let govt tell farmers why can’t it repeal farm laws: Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday asked the Centre to explain to farmers why it does not want to repeal the three farm laws, while promising it that they “will not let the government bow its head” before the world. TIkait appeared to make the conciliatory offer to the government from a position of strength amid swelling support for farmers' stir with hundreds of villagers pouring in at the key protest site, Gazipur’s UP Gate on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Also Read | ‘Not going to war’: Farmers’ leader calls for peaceful protest“What is the compulsion of the government that it is adamant on not repealing the new farm laws?,” asked Tikait, who has emerged virtually overnight as a potent face of farmers’ stir following his emotional appeal to the farming community against leaving the protest site. “The government can tell its reasons to farmers and we (farmers) are the kind of people who believe in the panchayat system. We will never let the government bow its head in shame in front of the world,” Tikait said, apparently striking a conciliatory note. “We have an ideological fight with the government, something which can neither be fought with sticks and guns nor suppressed by them. The farmers will return home only when the new laws are repealed,” the BKU national spokesperson asserted. The younger son of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s late president Mahendra Singh Tikait, made the assertion with hundreds of villagers, including women and children reaching the protest site at Delhi eastern border, during the day – some with water and homemade food and others with buttermilk -- in a symbolic show of support for protestors. Also Read | ‘Repeal of laws must to resolve impasse’: SAD president Sukbir Singh BadalThe day also saw more politicians throwing in their weight behind the Tikait’s growing strength and meeting him at the protest site. The BKU-led protest against the Centre's new farm laws appeared to be fizzling out following the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the tractor rally, but more protestors joined the stir after a 'mahapanchayat' of farmers on Saturday in Muzaffarnagar. Addressing the protesting farmers, Tkait said farmers believe in the Gandhian principle of non-violence and have full faith in the Constitution and appealed to everyone for maintaining peace. “The farmers won't mind if the police even baton-charged them but if goons of political parties dare touch them, neither the farmers nor their tractors would leave the site,” he asserted. “The tears that I shed the other day were not mine but of all farmers,” he added, imparting an emotional edge to his address. Politicians continued to reach the protest site at UP Gate for a second day, even as Tikait insisted that no political leader would be allowed on the central platform and meetings with them would happen only off stage. The political leaders who met Tkait on Saturday and extended his support to him included Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala and Gujjar leader and former MLA Madan Bbhaiyya. Tikait's spiritual guru and founder of Neelkanth Ashram Amit Maharaj also reached the protest site, carrying Gangajal for him. He gave the holy water to Tikait to consume and blessed him, paying God to give him the strength to transform the stir into a “mega movement” of farmers."The movement was and is strong," BKU's Meerut Zone president Pawan Khatana told PTI. Khatana said there has been continuous support for the "peaceful protest" against the farmers' demand for removal of the new farm laws. Asked about the estimated crowd size at the site, he said, "Farmers are coming in to show the solidarity and leaving. It is not a stagnant crowd." The Delhi Traffic Police said to-and-fro movement on the National Highway 24 (Delhi-Meerut Expressway) has been closed. “Three super zonal magistrates, 14 zonal magistrate and 34 sector magistrates from the administration besides senior police officers are on the ground where law and order is under control,” Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told PTI. “Mobile toilets have been stationed at the protest site and water facilities have been restored,” he said, adding the situation was being monitored at the border. Internet services, however, will remain suspended till Sunday night in view of the Centre's order to “maintain public safety and averting public emergency”, the administration said. Around 3,000 security personnel including those from the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Rapid Action Force (RAF) in anti-riot gears and civil police, were deployed at the protest site, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-govt-tell-farmers-why-can-t-it-repeal-farm-laws-rakesh-tikait-101612055024581.html
31-01-2021||India||‘Bare necessities delivered in 2018 significantly better than 2012 level’: CEA Krishnamurthy Subramanian||A day after he presented the Economic Survey, chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian spoke at length about the finer points of his assessment of the economy, India’s response to the Covid pandemic, the farm protests and more with Sunetra Choudhury. Edited excerpts:Did your office work closely in deciding the government response to the pandemic?As part of government process, it is expected that inputs are taken from all of us. The role that my office plays is that we look at research. Early on in the pandemic, we read a lot about the Spanish Flu. The other key part was a Hansen and Sargeant paper which said that when you are faced with an environment of enormous uncertainty, the right policy response is to minimise losses. The Mahabharata says “Saving a life that’s in jeopardy is the origin of dharma”. So we combined elements from economics, epidemiology and scriptures.What do you make of the Opposition’s criticism of your projection of 11% GDP growth?When the estimates of the first quarter were released, we mentioned that there will be a V-shaped recovery. None of us is an astrologer. We track 58 indicators to make our estimation. The 11% projection is certainly achievable. When people say that a decline has happened for the first time in 40 years, we must keep in mind that we have encountered a pandemic. Even if there was no lockdown, we would not have travelled or visited restaurants, and the uncertainty would have impacted discretionary spending, consumption and investment.Much of the government’s response came in the form of easier loans and credit. Many have argued that direct cash transfers would be better. What is your response to that?I think the Indian response was based on foundational economic principles, which is that when there is uncertainty, households do not spend on discretionary items. For instance, there is evidence in the economic survey that the balance of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana increased by 500 rupees. It is in the 400 million households at the bottom of the pyramid that the savings increased, which means that there was no consumption. During the lockdown, people would not have indulged in discretionary spending, it would have wasted fiscal space. Once the unlock was initiated, discretionary spending was focused on.What do you make of Dr Manmohan Singh’s statements that the pandemic has increased inequality?I think we have to look at the strength of the economic argument rather than the person making it. The chapter on inequality and growth in the Economic Survey has a resounding answer to such arguments. I think their commentaries are based on conversations in advanced economies, where there is a conflict between inequality and growth. In India, this kind of tension doesn’t manifest. The stage of India’s development is different. Our potential growth rate is much higher and the opportunity to lift people out of poverty is also different. So, we should be focusing on growth. We have stated in the Economic Survey that about 85% of the reduction in poverty has come from economic growth. Those resources can be used for redistribution.Are you saying that the trickle-down effect will lift the poor out of poverty?No, when you expand the pie, the resources that you get can be used for redistribution. The trickle-down effect does not involve redistribution. Dr Manmohan Singh should note that there has been significant improvement in the bare necessities delivered in 2018 vis-a-vis 2012.Would you look at redistribution of wealth taxes?Given our state of development, we have to be careful. We don’t just want to read the Thomas Pikettys of the world who make good arguments for advanced economies because we can’t cut, paste and implement them here. We should continue to focus on growth so that the pie expands.You praised the new farm laws but the IMF has said that they need safety nets. What kind of safety nets would you propose?I think the PM-Kisan [Yojana] has provided a safety net. It is important the small farmer is provided options. At present, the small farmer is beholden to APMC [system] and the middleman.Why aren’t the farmers accepting the laws?That is the political economy. If you go by the income of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, they are far richer than farmers in other states. There are other dimensions here that are beyond economics which I am not going to comment on. We must also note the number of surveys and the committees that have recommended these reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bare-necessities-delivered-in-2018-significantly-better-than-2012-level-cea-101612050432824.html
31-01-2021||India||‘Not going to war’: Farmers’ leader calls for peaceful protest||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday alleged that there was a “conspiracy” to provoke the farmers protesting at the Singhu border, adding that they would not indulge in any violence.“We have been holding a peaceful agitation at Delhi’s borders. The agitation is peaceful today as well,” Rajewal, the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), told reporters here.Stressing on the need to protest peacefully, Rajewal said, “I appeal to people to join the peaceful protest (in Delhi) but don’t do anything even under the sway of emotions if someone tries to instigate you. We should keep in mind that we are not going to war. This is our country and our government.”Rajewal’s comments come against the backdrop of the police and protesters clashing at the Singhu border after a group, claiming to be locals, pelted the protesters with stones.Also read: PM Modi at all-party meeting says offer to farmers standsAsserting that “local people” were with the farmers, Rajewal alleged those behind the Singhu border incident were “BJP and RSS people”. “The government is trying to provoke us for violence. We will not indulge in any violence. We are alert to prevent any violence,” he said.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the last 65 days in protest against Centre’s three new farm laws, which, they say, will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri-businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-going-to-war-farmers-leader-calls-for-peaceful-protest-101612050181285.html
31-01-2021||India||RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary urges farmers to stay united||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary on Saturday gave a call for unity among farmers.“How can one name farmers as traitors?” asked Chaudhary at a mahapanchayat at a college ground in Mathura district. Thousands of farmers participated in the meeting. Besides RLD leaders, Sanjay Lathar of the Samajwadi Party (SP) was present at the mahapanchayat.The leaders asked farmers to strengthen the agitation on Delhi borders and support Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.Thousands are protesting at key border points near Delhi, demanding repeal of three central agricultural laws that they say will hurt their livelihood. Tikait’s group has stayed put at the Ghazipur border despite an eviction notice by authorities.“We have to stay united in this fight and maintain our cool,” said Chaudhary. He informed the gathering that his father and RLD president Ajit Singh had spoken to Tikait on the phone and assured him all support.“We might have lost elections but would not let farmers be defeated,” he said.He reminded the gathering about his grandfather former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, who took up farmers’ issues with India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. He asked farmers to stand by those leaders and parties which backed their cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rld-leader-jayant-chaudhary-urges-farmers-to-stay-united-101612049476051.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Border internet cut, more arrests made||Authorities on Saturday arrested over 20 people in connection with the violence that broke out in the national capital during a farmers’ rally on Republic Day, while mobile internet services were suspended for two days at key border points near Delhi where thousands of protesters have been camping since November-end as a part of their ongoing movement against three agricultural laws.It was for the second time in a week that internet services were suspended at Singhu and Tikri borders connecting Delhi to Haryana and the Ghazipur border connecting Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The fresh decision to snap the services between 11pm on January 29 and 11pm on January 31 came after the Delhi Police’s request to the Union home ministry.As investigation into the violent protests gathered pace, Delhi Police officials raided several locations in Punjab and identified a person suspected to have hoisted a farmers’ union flag and a religious flag at Red Fort on Tuesday, people aware of the developments said.Police say the farmers deviated from the routes agreed upon, entered parts of central and New Delhi areas, resorted to vandalism and attacked police personnel. At least 38 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered and 84 people arrested --- 22 of them on Saturday --- in connection with the violence.On Tuesday too, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, when violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers who want the government to repeal the laws that they say will hurt their livelihood. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured in the clashes that broke out in several places, including the historic Red Fort and the ITO intersection.This was also the third time that mobile internet services were suspended in Delhi in the past 14 months. On December 19, 2019, the government snapped the internet connections during protests against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA.Kultar Singh, a farmer at Tikri, said the government was attempting to “derail” the movement and “break” the farmers’ communication channels by suspending internet services. “Our brothers are coming to join us from parts of Haryana and Punjab. To ensure that we are not able to communicate with them, the government blocked internet services. But they will not succeed. This government is terrified. So they are resorting to these tactics,” Singh said.The move came in the backdrop of a group of people, who said they were local residents, entering the protest site at Singhu, triggering clashes with the demonstrators on Friday. On the same day, tension spiralled at Tikri after farmers and locals almost came to blows even as the number of protesters swelled in Ghazipur.Meanwhile, Delhi Police teams conducted raids across Punjab to arrest those involved in the Republic Day violence.A Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be named, said a police team was in Jalandhar to trace a man named Jugraj Singh. The officer identified Singh as the person who hoisted two flags at the Red Fort – a flag of a farmers’ union and a religious flag -- on Tuesday. “He is a farmer and also a school dropout. He is currently on the run. We have met his family and the local police there. He hasn’t returned home,” the officer said.Officials who requested anonymity said police teams were also conducting raids in Ludhiana, Moga and Tarn Taran.A second officer said police were also looking at those caught on tape during the protests. “We have taken the assistance of Punjab police while conducting raids and arresting such suspects,” the second official said. He added that the special cell (police’s anti-terror unit) was separately probing the role of prominent faces of the protest because they believe the violence was planned.“Our first task is to arrest those who indulged in violence on the road. The second will be to probe how the ring leaders had got them to indulge the violence on Republic Day. Look out circulars (LOC) have already been issued against farm leaders to ensure that they do not flee. The investigation has just started,” the second officer added.A forensic team also visited Red Fort to collect samples of the alleged damage to the Archaeological Survey of India-protected structure and evidence related to the protesters assaulting police personnel inside the monument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/border-internet-cut-more-arrests-made-101612042437803.html
31-01-2021||India||Offer to farmers stands: PM at all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the Centre’s offer to protesting farmers of keeping three agri laws in abeyance for 18 months “still stands” as he told an all-party meeting that his government was “committed to reaching a solution through dialogue”, a remark that appeared to reach out to thousands of protesters who have hunkered down at the Capital’s borders.The Prime Minister, however, stood firm against the violence at the Red Fort and other areas of Delhi during a tractor parade by farmers and said the “law will take its own course.”On Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with the Delhi Police and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.Addressing the all-party meet ahead of the Union Budget, PM Modi said the government was only a “phone call away” for talks with farmers who have been involved in a two-month-long agitation over the three farm laws.Facing 18 opposition parties adamant on the repeal of the farm laws, the Prime Minister reminded them that smaller parties suffer the most if the House doesn’t run and told representatives of the smaller parties that “you must tell all parties, including the BJP and NDA partners, that the House should run so that we get a chance to speak”.Eighteen opposition parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to both houses of Parliament on Friday, the inaugural day of the Budget Session, to protest against the farm laws. The session will run from January 29 to April 8 with a recess from February 15 to March 7. The budget is to be presented in Parliament by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. Many opposition parties including the Congress are set to continue their protests in Parliament.As one leader after another spoke about the farm issue, the Prime Minister, who chaired the virtual meeting, referred to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s remarks after the 11th meeting between the government and the farm bodies that he was just a phone call away and will come whenever the farmer leaders want to discuss keeping the laws in abeyance.“The same offer of the Indian government still stands. If you know any protester, tell them that the offer is still there and I am sure everyone here wants a solution through dialogue. The government is continuing efforts to find a solution through dialogue,” the PM told the leaders.The PM also condemned the vandalism of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in California, US.“Nearly everyone spoke about the incidents on January 26. The law will take its own course. But on January 30, some people vandalised Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the US. Everyone must think about what are we giving to the country by creating this atmosphere of hatred?” he added.Modi also welcomed any criticism of public policies as they generate fresh ideas, and maintained that in a Post-Covid-19 world, India can’t afford to lose its opportunities.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said that had the three farm bills been sent to a House panel for review, “the protests happening today throughout the country, particularly in northern India and areas surrounding Delhi, would not have happened”. He “strongly condemned” the “unfortunate” and “shameful incident” at the Red Fort and demanded that the culprits be punished.However, he also hit out at the government and said: “It seems that the government, instead of catching the real culprits, is trying to implicate the farmers’ leaders. I don’t think that any sensible farmer leader was party to that incident at the Red fort.”Azad warned that “if innocent farmer leaders are framed, then this agitation will grow exponentially,” asking the government not to “make the mistake of framing the innocent farmer leaders, and it should not be a prestige issue as farmers are our annadaata, our own people”. He also demanded that a discussion be held on the status of the economy, the fall in GDP and growing unemployment. He also said that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir must be restored as the situation there is was grave.The Centre has pushed a set of agricultural laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. Farmers say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.All-party meetings such as the one on Saturday are held to discuss legislative agenda for a Parliament session, with leaders of various parties flagging important issues.Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said the opposition parties’ boycott of the President’s address was a “strong message for the Centre to withdraw the farm laws as majoritarianism cannot let farmers suffer”. He demanded an all-party meeting on the farm issue and asked for a threadbare debate on unemployment.The Biju Janata Dal’s Pinaki Misra, who was present at the meeting, said Odisha chief minister and BJD president Naveen Patnaik specifically requested the Union government to have the women’s reservation bill passed in this Budget Session.The Shiv Sena, meanwhile, said it wanted free vaccines for the entire poor population in Maharashtra. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), too, demanded free vaccines, and a debate on Sri Lankan Tamils, while the YSRCP asked for special category status for Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offer-to-farmers-stands-pm-at-all-party-meeting-101612041447381.html
31-01-2021||India||Farm laws like death warrants that must be taken back, says AAP's Sanjay Singh||The newly enacted farm laws like death warrants that must be taken back, said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh on Saturday.While speaking to ANI, Singh said, "Death warrants are taken back, not amended. These new laws are like death-warrant for the farmers."Regarding the suspension of internet services temporarily at the Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders and their adjoining areas till January 31, the AAP leader said, "They (government) can suspend the internet...can seize the properties of those protesting...they can do anything but will not be able to make the farmers protest stop as the farmers are determined."Singh further accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of defaming the farmers' protest."There were nine routes pre-decided for the farmer's tractor rally on January 26. There was a peaceful march on the seven routes. BJP was behind the violence at the Red Fort and other areas in Delhi. It was to defame the farmers' protest," he said.There was violence during the tractor march called by farmer unions on January 26 with protestors clashing with police and resorting to vandalism in different parts of Delhi.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-like-death-warrants-that-must-be-taken-back-says-aap-s-sanjay-singh-101612033647503.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||Day after clashes at Delhi borders, farmers, police step up vigil||New Delhi: As the number of protesters at three of Delhi borders continued to surge on Saturday, the police worked through the day to seal and isolate the agitation spots, even as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait warned of a response if “even one more” stone was pelt at any of the farmers.“I want to tell the government that the stone-pelting must stop now. From Sunday, the khap panchayats of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will be here. If there is even a single stone pelted after this, volunteers of the khap panchayats will catch them and treat them appropriately,” Tikait said on Saturday, as the crowd at Ghazipur border cheered on.Tikait’s was seemingly referring to stones pelt at farmers at Singhu border on Friday afternoon, allegedly by “local residents”. The incident led to clashes in which 15 farmers and six police personnel were injured and ended in the arrest of 44 people.In a similar incident at the Tikri agitation on Friday, a group claiming to be locals protested against the blockade, which they said was affecting their businesses and daily lives. Farmer bodies have dismissed these groups as people “propped up by the Centre”.But these clashes have led to the police sealing the borders in a way that has disrupted the farmers’ regular movement, and restricted their access to food, water, and toilets.At Singhu, the police on Saturday broke up the road behind the main protest site, a day after they had razed inner lanes that farmers and residents used for their commutes.But the worst affected at Singhu was the first stage, where Friday’s clashes broke out.The primary protest site at Singhu border, which stretches for over 10km, is divided into two parts, the first of which is occupied by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC). The second, larger, stage around 500 metres away houses protesters of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), and is behind the police barricades.“We cannot walk to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial a few hundred metres away, or use the toilets in that area. We are forced to relieve ourselves in the fields. Now, we have to make multiple trips to a spot about two kilometres away to bring water, whereas earlier we just used pipes to get water from Delhi Jal Board (DJB) tankers. The barricades have been placed only to cut off our supplies,” said Gursahib Singh, 25, a farmer from Theh Naushera village in Tarn Taran district in Punjab.Hussandeep Singh, 23, a farmer from Amritsar who has been serving as a volunteer at the KMSC stage, said, “Except for a narrow lane, our stage has been cut off from the main protest site. We worry that the single lane too will be cut off soon. If that happens, we will be completely isolated and vulnerable to attacks like the one on Friday,” he said.The barricades have also made it difficult for farmers reach the main stage to access vital supplies.On Saturday, the area remained tense. Around 3.40 pm, volunteers said they spotted a group of people attempting to march towards the stage area again. “As soon as our volunteers alerted us, we ran towards the spot to see. The group had dispersed by then,” said Major Singh, 65, a farmer from Kasel in Tarn Taran district, who is also a member of KSMC.A senior police officer, refusing to be named, said, “A group had arrived but we made them go back from the first barricade nearly 1.5km away.”Responding to complaints raised by farmers on multiple barricades, the officer said, “We have kept one side open for them and all sympathisers or protesters can travel from that road. That stretch is around 3km long.”Ghazipur cut offThe Ghazipur protest site too has been cut off from the Delhi side, making it difficult members of the public to access the farmers. But the mood here was relatively upbeat, a day after the gathering increased exponentially, after a video of Tikait in tears went viral online. In fact, the crowd, farmers said, had doubled on Saturday.A majority of the protesters gathered in front of the stage from which Tikait spoke, visibly more composed than a couple of days earlier.“People say Rakesh cried. Rakesh Tikait doesn’t cry. What you saw were not tears, they could be the water we use to irrigate fields,” he said.Tikait also used the stage to extend displays of inclusivity. “When I thought of quitting the protests, I remembered my Sikh brothers who fed me here for the last two months. I realised that this was a conspiracy to topple the turbans of Sikh farmers,” he said.While farmers were supposed to observe a day’s fast to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, this was limited to a few protesters and leaders, while langar continued uninterrupted.“If we don’t eat, how will we be able to fight this government?” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer from Pilibhit, who had organised a langar at Ghazipur border.Tikait, in his speeches, didn’t focus on the fasts either. Instead, he said rations and other necessities were in sufficient supply.“Some BJP office bearers have sent us 2,000 blankets, sugar and potatoes. They requested me not to identify them, so I won’t,” Tikait said, drawing laughs from the gathering.Ghazipur was transformed on Saturday, with several more tents being set up overnight, and the road packed with vehicles for almost a kilometre.Like Friday, political leaders continued to swarm the stage. On Saturday, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala arrived, accompanied by supporters in a large fleet of cars. Chautala resigned from the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday against the farm laws.Singhu and Tikri borders too saw the crowd swell.“More farmers from Haryana and Punjab will reach by Sunday. Khap panchayats are being held in villages across Haryana, and people from every household are arriving at the protest site. Around 2,000 tractors packed with farmers are on their way to Tikri border as well,” said Deepak Deswal, a farmer leader and a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said.Kulwinder Singh, a farmer leader who reached Tikri border from Sirsa on Saturday afternoon, said the police were stopping farmers at many locations in Haryana to discourage them from reaching the protest site. “Many tractors of farmers have been either stopped or diverted by the police at different locations such as Rohtak, Jind, Bahadurgarh in Haryana in order to suppress our movement. But we will not relent as more will join us in the next 24 hours. They cannot stop farmers to reach the protest site,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-clashes-at-delhi-borders-farmers-police-step-up-vigil-101612031721241.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||AAP says R-Day violence ‘scripted’, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the Central government imposed a mobile internet shutdown in and around Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where large groups of farmers have been protesting against three contentious farm laws passed in September last year.The AAP also claimed that the BJP “scripted” the January 26 tractor rally violence and the clash that happened at the Singhu protest site on Friday, while demanding an investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The BJP was quick to dismiss the allegations as “baseless” and hit back at the AAP calling the party “anarchist”.“The BJP scripted the violence that happened during the tractor rally on January 26 to malign the peaceful protest of farmers. Yesterday, BJP goons attacked the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders; they were not local residents. Today, they shut down the internet at all the protest sites. They have been calling the protesting farmers anti-national since the Day One of the protest. The NIA should probe the role of BJP leaders involved in the violence,” said the AAP’s spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.AAP’s spokesperson Raghav Chadha added, “The BJP is trying to crush the farmer’s agitation and their role in the January 26 violence stands exposed. Safety and security of the protesting farmers have become a major issue now. It is more concerning because the police in Delhi is also under the BJP government.”Delhi-BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, however, countered the claims by saying, “The AAP has proved that they are a party of anarchists. The farmers’ protest has been disturbing normal lives and livelihood of people living in the vicinity not for a few days but for around 70 days. It is sad that the AAP leaders can’t see their pain. They are also questioning the police, despite many police officers being injured after violence linked to the farmer protests. Their allegations are baseless. No BJP supporter or worker was involved in any violence or any protest against the farmer groups. It is the supporters of the AAP who are instigating violence and there is ample evidence on public domain that exposes them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-r-day-violence-scripted-bjp-hits-back-101612031302090.html
31-01-2021||Delhi||44 held for violence at Singhu, none of them are counter protesters||All 44 people arrested for the violence at Singhu border on Friday are farmers who had been protesting at the site, police said.None of the arrested suspects are from a mob of 200 , who claimed to be locals of the area and who indulged in a clash with protesting farmers on Friday, police officers, who did not wish to be named, claimed.Despite multiple barricades and at least 1,000 personnel of Delhi Police and paramilitary forces at the Singhu border, a mob of 200 people managed to reach near the main stage of the protest on Friday and attacked the farmers with sticks, besides pelting them with stones, leading to Friday afternoon’s clash. There were videos on social media — none of which could be verified independently — that showed a group of men pelting stones while police personnel stood next to them and watched. One video showed a masked man throwing stones. Another showed some police personnel in anti-riot gear standing and watching during the stone-pelting.Despite repeated phone calls and text messages, the special commissioner of police (west zone) Sanjay Singh or additional DCP (outer), Ghanshayam Bansal did not respond to a comment on why no locals were arrested for their involvement in violence.Delhi police had on Friday night released a statement saying they had arrested 44 persons for Friday’s violence, including a 22-year-old protesting farmer, who had allegedly stabbed a police inspector with a sword on his left palm. Police in their statement did not specify how many of the 44 people were farmers or locals.But Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, said that on Saturday he met all the 44 farmers lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, including Ranjit Singh — who was arrested for attacking the police inspector.“All the 44 people arrested for yesterday’s violence at Singhu border are farmers. We will be fighting the case of all farmers who have been arrested during the agitation. We have formed a special panel of lawyers to look into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/44-held-for-violence-at-singhu-none-of-them-are-counter-protesters-101612031241764.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers start regrouping at Haryana-Rajasthan border||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that their counterparts from both the states are mobilising once again at the protest site, after many left for their home towns following the violence in Delhi.Farmers from Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Hanumangarh and Ganganagar are expected to reach the protest site at the border by Monday, protesters said. Protesting leaders said that Tikait’s speech had given a fresh lease of life to the movement that seemed to be flagging temporarily.Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, who is camping at Shahjahanpur, said that around 200 farmers from Jaipur had reached the protest site on Saturday. “Protesters are joining the agitation once again. Today, around 200 people from Jaipur arrived here and took out a Tiranga yatra. The numbers of protesters here is steadily increasing,” said Sohlot.He said that Tikait’s emotional speech gave a fresh impetus to the ongoing agitation, especially among the Jat farmers of the state. “Protesters from Jaipur from the Jat community have also joined us. To a certain extent, the community is now against the government on this issue, following Tikait’s speech,” said Sohlot. He said that support from different places in Haryana was increasing and farmers on around 50 tractors from Bawal are set to join the agitation on Sunday.Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said, “Farmers have defeated the government’s plans of crushing the agitation taking place at Ghazipur under the leadership of Rakesh Tikait. They have decided that they will not give up or get up from the highway till the three laws are rolled back.”Harvinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said, “Farmers from Hanumangarh and Ganganagar have left their villages and should reach in a day or two,” said Gill.He said that while the situation was tense till January 27, things are improving for the better. “Post Republic Day, some people had raised slogans here. But everything is peaceful now. The movement will only gain strength now,” said Gill.Bharatiya Janata Party’s spokesperson for Haryana, Jawahar Yadav, said that if the numbers of protesters are increasing, it is likely due to the support of opposition parties. “Politicians from opposition parties are sharing the stage with Rakesh Tikait. It is becoming evident that these parties are backing the protests,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-start-regrouping-at-haryana-rajasthan-border-101612030762945.html
31-01-2021||Gurugram||FIR filed against Shashi Tharoor and six others for tweet on farmer’s death||The police have filed a case against seven people, including Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, for allegedly “misreporting” and “spreading disharmony” during the clashes between the police and the protesting farmers on Republic Day.The FIR was filed on Thursday night by Gurugram Police on the basis of a complaint by Jharsa resident Pankaj Singh (34), who works with a private company. The police said the complainant has accused Tharoor, Sardesai and five other journalists of spreading “false and misleading information”.Earlier on Thursday, another case was registered against the same set of people in Noida. The allegations levelled were also identical, said the police.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the police would probe the complaint that the suspects had spread fake news accusing the Delhi police of the murder of a person who was driving tractor during the riot in the Capital on Republic Day. “Gurugram Police has begun an investigation into the matter,” said Goel.On Tuesday, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws.A case under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Cyber police station of Gurugram.“I filed a complaint with the Gururgam Police on Thursday and attached the social media posts from the suspects Twitter handles. I was deeply aggrieved by widespread riots on Republic Day in the national Capital,” said Singh. “I am a middle-class person with no political affiliation,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fir-filed-against-shashi-tharoor-and-six-others-for-tweet-on-farmer-s-death-101611945557513.html
