02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI for forming special panels to probe ‘atrocities’ by police||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said he was in favour of forming standing committees headed by the Chief Justices of the High Courts to investigate complaints received from the common man of “atrocities” committed by the bureaucracy, especially police officers, in the country. The CJI’s oral observation comes even as some police officers are in the spotlight for committing serious crimes. Recently, police officers in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh have been accused of causing the death of a businessman during a raid in a hotel. In Tamil Nadu, the CBI had chargesheeted nine policemen for the custodial deaths of father-son duo P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks. There have been instances in which district administration officers were recorded on video physically manhandling citizens during the lockdown. “We are very disturbed by what the bureaucracy, particularly police officers, are doing... I was in favour of forming standing committees led by Chief Justices of High Courts to look into complaints of atrocities committed by bureaucrats, especially police officers, in this country,” Chief Justice Ramana said in court on Friday. The observation came when the court was reserving judgment on petitions filed by suspended Additional Director General of Police Gurjinder Pal Singh in Chhattisgarh. He had sought protection from arrest in various criminal cases, including sedition, extortion and criminal intimidation, arraigned against him by the current government. The court, in its order on Friday, refused to protect Mr. Singh in a corruption case filed against him. However, it protected him in the sedition and extortion cases till the High Court decides them on merit in two months. ‘Political vendetta’ The court recently made oral observations in the case about how police officers act with impunity with one government but have to “pay back with interest” when there is a regime change. It had, in an earlier instance, wondered at the plight of police officers caught between rival political parties who come to power one after the other. Political vendetta The Bench had highlighted how police officers become targets of political vendetta, stating that it was a “sad state of affairs”. The CJI said orally, “When a political party is in power, police officers side with a particular party. Then when a new party comes into power, the government initiates action against those officials.” The court stated that this new trend needed to be checked in its tracks. Senior lawyers F.S. Nariman and Vikas Singh appeared for him and the State government was represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Rakesh Dwivedi. Cases of sedition and other offences were lodged against Mr. Singh by the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-for-forming-special-panels-to-probe-atrocities-by-police/article36786981.ece
02 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Rawat, Amarinder spar as Congress crisis continues||Amid the ongoing crises in the Punjab Congress, party’s State affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday were embroiled in sharp exchange of words. While Mr. Rawat accused Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.) of failing to keep his promises on important issues including the ‘Bargari sacrilege, drugs, electricity’, the latter rejected the allegation, which he said were clearly prompted by the pathetic situation the party now found itself in Punjab after being on a winning spree for four and a half years. Hitting out at the former Chief Minister in an unusually strong statement, Mr. Rawat said, “There was a general perception throughout the State that Captain and the Badals are helping each other, and they have a secret understanding... The whole Bargari issue was mishandled by trusted lieutenants of Capt. Amarinder Singh.In Cabinet meetings, there were heated discussions on the issue and later, many prominent Ministers came to Delhi with a complaint that now with Capt. Amarinder at the helm of affairs, Congress can't win the elections.” ‘No issue settled’ “After prolonged discussions, the Chief Minister agreed to implement 18 points, which included Bargari, drugs etc. — issues that were suggested by the panel to the Congress president. He did not implement even one out of these 18 points... Later, we came down to 5 points, which he promised to implement within the next 10 days. After this, 20 days passed, and we didn't hear anything from him.” He said, “43 MLAs told the party that despite repeated efforts we could not get anything done by Capt. Singh, so please call a CLP (Congress Legislature Party) meeting; otherwise we are going to call a separate meeting. I tried to contact Amarinder Singhji thrice, but I could not get him on telephone.” “Then through one of his well-wishers I sent him a message that there is a demand for CLP meeting, and we have no option but to call the CLP meeting. Despite getting the message, Capt. Amarinder didn’t bother to telephone me. Then I suggested to the party high command, that if we delay the matter then many MLAs may form a separate group or may create some problem for the party. It was then decided to call a CLP meeting,” said Mr Rawat, adding “No humiliation was done to him.” The senior Congress leader alleged that after Capt.Amarinder met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the theory of humiliation is being circulated to gain the sympathy of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-rawat-spar-as-congress-crisis-continues/article36786982.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC notices to stop KLIP capacity enhancing works||Telangana High Court has issued notices to the State and the Central governments in a PIL petition seeking a direction to stop works enhancing capacity of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) from drawing 2 TMCft per day to 3 TMCft per day. A bench of justices Shameem Akther and K. Lakshman passed the interim direction after hearing the plea filed by Cheruku Srinivas Reddy. ‘File affidavits’ The bench instructed the governments to file affidavits within four weeks answering the contentions raised by the petitioner. The petitioner contended that Telangana government secured permission for KLIP to draw 2 TMCft water per day from the Godavari. Works related to the project started in 2016 and reached near completion in 2019. During the COVID pandemic in 2020, the government started additional land acquisition to enhance the project capacity to 3 TMCft per day. It called for tenders and started works during pandemic time “without completing the assessment and obtaining necessary statutory clearances,” the petitioner said. ‘Pressure tactics’ He stated that “with the pressure tactics of the executive and land acquisition officers, some farmers surrendered their lands”. While Union Jal Shakthi Minister wrote to Telangana Chief Minister not to go ahead with the new works relating to additional 1 TMCft capacity, the National Green Tribunal said in an order that the additional capacity works should be treated as a new project. For this, a new environment impact assessment and clearance was required. Not paying heed to such directions, the State government had gone ahead with the fresh construction works relating to the additional 1 TMCft capacity of the project, the petitioner contended. Meanwhile, the Central government exercising its powers under Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act-2014 issued a gazette notification no. 2637 on this July 16 constituting the River Boards for Krishna and Godavari rivers. Declaring the works relating to 1 TMCft as a new project, the Centre instructed the State government not to undertake any works pertaining to it. Despite such instructions, the State government had undertaken works putting at stake huge amounts of public money, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notices-to-stop-klip-capacity-enhancing-works/article36787214.ece
02 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Two COVID-19 deaths in DK||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 86 new cases on Friday. With 91 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 929. Test positivity rate stood at 0.89%. A fine of Rs. 1,06,84,270 has so far been collected in 87,915 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 23 new cases of which 13 are from Udupi taluk, three from Kundapur, six from Karkala, and one from outside the district. While 17 people are in home isolation, six are in healthcare facilities. With 52 patients discharged, there were 177 active cases in the district. Vaccination With 5,971 people vaccinated on Friday, the total number of people given the vaccine in Dakshina Kannada reached 21,68,897. Of these, 14,97,518 have received their first dose and 6,71,379 their second dose. In Udupi district, 3,189 people were vaccinated, taking the total to 13,38,092. Of these, 9,06,643 have received their first dose and 4,31,449 their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-covid-19-deaths-in-dk/article36787448.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. plans to restart midday meals in schools after Dasara holidays||In the backdrop of the growing demand for midday meals to be restarted in schools, the government is planning to reintroduce it after the Dasara holidays. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has written to all the Deputy Directors of Public Instruction asking about their preparedness. It has also sought suggestions on how the scheme can be implemented effectively. Teachers of government schools feel the attendance is likely to improve in schools if midday meals are provided. “Many children are not getting adequate nutrition as their families have been badly affected by the pandemic, financially. Providing midday meals in schools will ensure that the health of students improves,” said a teacher of a government school in North Bengaluru. Incidentally, S. Suresh Kumar, former Primary and Secondary Education Minister, met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday and explained the need to start the noon meal programme immediately. He later announced on social media that the Chief Minister had responded to his request and said that orders in connection to it would be issued immediately. For the 2020-21 academic year, when schools remained closed because of COVID-19, the government had provided dry ration such as foodgrains, toor dal, oil, salt, and milk powder to students. But for the 2021-22 academic year, it has neither provided dry ration nor served midday meals when classes reopened for high school and upper primary students. Sylvia Karpagam, who is part of the Right to Food campaign, said that the government was not addressing the malnutrition crisis in the State. “The midday meal is a crucial, legally mandated commitment that governments have made to children. By denying this for months on end, the government is not fulfilling the fundamental right of a child to life. The programme has to be restarted immediately. All vacant posts for cooks/helpers should be filled and with adequate remuneration. Hot cooked meals have to be prepared at schools,” she said. Health issues According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), stunting (low height for age) is prevalent in 35.4% of children under the age of five in Karnataka. In the same age group, the percentage of underweight (low weight for age) children is 32.9%, while 19.5% are wasted (low weight for height). Nutrition experts have highlighted the need for an independent assessment of the nutritional status of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-plans-to-restart-midday-meals-after-dasara-holidays/article36787011.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,||33 jockeys to come out of Kambala academy||Second year BCom student Rakshit Shetty was a regular at Kambalas — slush track buffaloe race — held in many parts of the coast along with his buffaloes since childhood. He is now among the 33 youngsters undergoing a 15-day training at Kadalakere in Moodbidri to realise the dream of becoming a Kambala jockey. Similar is the dream of Ritesh, who recently passed Class X. “I got injured while running in a Kambala event last year and hence had opted out. “Shrinivas Gowda, the popular Kambala jockey, inspired me to undergo the training. I hope to get a chance to run this season [which starts in November],” he said. The Kambala Samrakshana Nirvahana Mattu Tarabethi Academy has organised the fortnight-long training for 33 aspirants at Kadalakere in Moodbidri, the venue of annual Koti-Chennayya Kambala. The trainees are accommodated in a hall nearby. The training started on September 19 and it will end on October 4. The training was conducted at Miyar in Karkala taluk in the last five years. Academy director and Kambala exponent Gunapal Kadamba said the academy began the training with an intention to bring in youths from farmers’ families into Kambala. Of the 200-odd applicants, 33, aged between 18 and 25, were selected after screening, he said. Training coordinator John Cyril D’Souza alias Appanna said sessions start at 7 a.m. and go on till 8 p.m. Apart from warm-up exercises, the trainees are trained in handling buffaloes and other native skills involved in Kambala races. Trainees are also exposed to running on synthetic tracks in Swaraj Maidan, Mr. D’Souza said. Academy’s another director Seetaram Shetty said training is free while the academy spends about Rs. 35,000 on each trainee. The academy is using 42 ‘Kambala’ buffaloes offered by Kambala enthusiasts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts for the training and spends around Rs. 4.5 lakh to take care of buffaloes. Ajith Kumar Jain, a trainer and a former Kambala jockey, said the trainees need to work on the basic skills provided during training and make a mark in Kambla. “I worked for six years to be recognised as a jockey in Kambala events. Hope to see these young jockeys in the field at the earliest,” he said. As many as 60 people trained at the a cademy have made mark in Kambala events so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/33-jockeys-to-come-out-of-kambala-academy/article36787447.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||100% cut-off for some courses in DU first list||Delhi University (DU) on Friday released the first cut-off list for admission to various merit-based undergraduate programmes. Continuing with the trend of setting perfect scores for admission, four colleges offering Science courses and five colleges offering Arts and Commerce courses have pegged the cut-off at 100%. These colleges include Shri Ram College of Commerce for B.A. (Honours) in Economics and B.Com (Honours); Hindu College for B.A. in Political Science; Hansraj College, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College for B.Sc (Honours) in Computer Science; Ramjas College for B.A. in Political Science and B.Sc (Honours) in Physics; and Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College for B.Com (Honours). Jesus and Mary College, which issues its cut-off list separately, has set the requirement at 100% for B.A. (Honours) in Psychology for candidates who do not include the subject while calculating their best of four scores. The cut-off was expected to be higher this year with 70,000 students scoring above 95% in the CBSE Class XII exams, a spike from the 38,000 in 2020. The exams were cancelled this year owing to COVID-19 and results were calculated using a special formula based on past performances. Last year, Lady Shri Ram College pegged the cut-off at 100% for three courses — B.A. (Honours) in Economics, Political Science and Psychology. This year, the college has set the cut-off at 99.75% for the same courses.  As many as 70,000 seats across colleges are on offer. In previous years, the university has seen over three lakh applicants. This year, of the over 2.6 lakh applicants, 2.29 lakh appeared for the CBSE exam. Of the total applicants, 1,15,928 are from Delhi. The university said candidates can apply for admission under the first cut-off list between 10 a.m. on October 4 and 11.59 p.m. on October 6. Colleges will complete approvals by 5 p.m. on October 7 and the last day for payment of fees is 5 p.m. on October 8. Second list on Oct. 9 According to a notice issued by the university, the second cut-off list will be declared on October 9 and the last day for payment of fees will be October 13. The university is scheduled to release up to five cut-off lists, with the admission process continuing till November 16. The university has also made provisions for conducting special drives and special cut-off lists against vacant seats in colleges. Special drives are traditionally conducted to fill vacant reserved seats. The admission process will be conducted through the UG admission portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/100-cut-off-for-some-courses-in-du-first-list/article36787118.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Electricity tariff arrears to be collected in October-November||Arrears of the revised electricity tariff will be collected in October and November for April and May respectively without interest, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has announced. This is as per the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (KERC) order, according to which the revenue gap would be recovered from the first meter reading date falling on or after April 1, 2021, though the tariff revision was announced late. “In order to soften the burden due to the increase in tariff on the consumers during the lockdown period, the arrears towards revision of tariff for the energy consumed during the months of April and May, is allowed to be recovered during the month of October and November, 2021 respectively, without charging any interest,” the commission had said.  The KERC approved an average increase in tariff by 30 paise per unit for all electricity supply companies (Escoms) for the ongoing financial year in June, which was an average increase of 3.84%. The Escoms had sought an average increase of Rs. 1.35 per unit accounting for 17.31% increase. Fuel Cost Adjustment Charges In addition, consumers will also have to pay the fuel cost adjustment charges from this month. In accordance with the provisions of the KERC (Fuel Cost Adjustment Charges) Regulations, 2013, and amendments thereon, the commission, “having recognised the decrease (savings) in the fuel cost adjustment charges along with the decrease in the overall power purchase cost during the first quarter of FY22,” has allowed the Escoms to refund/ adjust the fuel cost adjustment charges per unit of sale in bills to be issued during the billing quarter from October 1 to December 31. The charges range from 5 to 8 paise per unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/electricity-tariff-arrears-to-be-collected-in-october-november/article36786990.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||You are choking Delhi, Supreme Court to farmers||The Supreme Court on Friday accused farmers of “strangulating the city [New Delhi]” with their protest against farm laws. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ body, for a direction to the Delhi Police to permit them to go on ‘satyagraha’ at Jantar Mantar. “On one hand, you have been strangulating the entire city and blocking highways... now you want to enter the city and protest here?” Justice Khanwilkar lashed out at the farmers’ body. The Bench asked why the farmers’ organisations continued with protests even after the laws were under challenge or sub judice in the Supreme Court. “Are you then protesting against the judiciary? Once you have approached the court, let the law take its own course... Instead, you continue with the protests and block the national highways... You have to trust us,” Justice Khanwilkar, flanked by Justice C.T. Ravikumar, chided the farmers’ organisation. Justice Khanwilkar asked the farmers whether they had taken the permission of citizens who lived near the protest sites on the national highways. “There is a right to protest, but there is a right to use public roads and free movement..” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/you-are-choking-delhi-supreme-court-to-farmers/article36786978.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,||ATM robbery: Haryana-based gang nabbed||In a major operation, Tiruvallur district police solved two cases of burglaries at ATMs and nabbed a Haryana-based gang which was moving in a lorry in several States carrying gas-cutters and other implements. On September 15, a masked gang entered an ATM at Elavur village in Arambakkam police station limits near Gummidipoondi and sprayed a liquid to blur the CCTV camera. Later, the thieves downed the shutter and broke open the ATM using a gas-cutter. The police personnel on night duty were swiftly sent to the spot after getting an alert on the mobile number of Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police. Close call On seeing the patrol team, the burglars fled the spot in a car with Andhra Pradesh registration number. As the two policemen chased them on a motorcycle, the accused abandoned the car near Mahalinga Nagar and took to their heels. They escaped under the cover of darkness. SP R.V. Varun Kumar formed special teams to trace the accused and intensified investigation. As per preliminary investigation, the car was stolen from Gawali, near Guntur in Andhra Pradesh. A special team collected certain clues. The next night, a gang stole Rs. 4 lakh from an ATM in Perungalathur in Arakkonam taluk police station limits in Ranipet district. The modus operandi was identical. On the advice of Inspector-General of Police Santhosh Kumar, the joint investigation by special teams from both districts was handled by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Arakkonam, Pugalendhi Ganesh. After analysing the CCTV footage, the police found a man withdrawing money from both ATMs before the crime was committed and facial features were matched. Police kept a vigil on his mobile phone number after getting the details from the bank and started tracking his mobile phone. The suspected man came by a lorry with Rajasthan registration to offload dal in SIPCOT, Gummidipoondi, and later was found travelling to Ranipet on the day the crime was committed. The special teams fanned across several places, including Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. The continued surveillance yielded results and the police found out that the burglars were returning to the State. The police chalked out a strategy and intercepted the container lorry at the check-post near Elavur. The suspects sped away but the police caught them after a chase. Mr. Varun Kumar told The Hindu , “We were working hard to detect the criminals in the case. After a heroic chase, we caught them. This is a unique case wherein old school policing and modern technology were used to nab the criminals.” Police apprehended Sajith, Harshad, Emandhan and a juvenile from Nuh district in Haryana. The gang travelled in the lorry on the pretext of transporting dal from north. It stopped the vehicle on roadsides and stole cars. Travelling by the cars, the accused would loot the ATMs using gas-cutters. Later, they would return to their native place with the booty. The police are investigating to find out if the gang was involved in more ATM robberies in the State.  This is a unique case wherein old school policing and modern technology were used R.V. Varun Kumar Tiruvallur SP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/atm-robbery-haryana-based-gang-nabbed/article36787037.ece
02 October 2021||Anantapur / Kakinada,||A ‘stitch’ ahead of Pawan Kalyan’s visit||Ahead of Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan’s proposed ‘shramadaan’ to repair the Puttaparthi-Dharmavaram State Highway at Kothacheruvu on Saturday, the R&B Department had hurriedly filled all the deep potholes and black-topped the entire badly damaged portion on Thursday night. Mr. Pawan Kalyan was scheduled to reach Kothacheruvu at 2 p.m. and start relaying the more than 1-km badly damaged portion of the road in the village as part of the party’s State-wide initiative.  In a similar development in East Godavari district, the authorities concerned on Friday evening carried out temporary repairs by filling the potholes on the Dowleswaram barrage road, where Mr. Pawan Kalyan had earlier announced to launch the party’s initiative on October 2 marking Gandhi jayanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-stitch-ahead-of-pawans-visit/article36787492.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST collections hit 5-month high||India’s gross GST revenues crossed Rs. 1.17 lakh crore in September, hitting a five-month high, and the Finance Ministry expects the positive trend to pick up further pace in the second half of the year. September’s revenues were 23% higher than a year ago and 27.3% more than collections in the pre-pandemic month of September 2019. “Coupled with economic growth, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers, have also been contributing to the enhanced GST collections,” the Finance Ministry said. For the eighth month in a row, the Ministry did not release any data on compliance levels or the number of GSTR 3B returns filed by taxpayers. However, State-wise revenue trends were disclosed for the third month in a row, after being skipped in January, April, May and June. Revenues from import of goods were 30% higher while indirect tax collected on domestic transactions, including the import of services, were 20% higher in September, compared to the same month in 2020. The significant increase in GST collections both from import and domestic transactions and the marked increase in the collections in key States indicates country-wide acceleration in business activities, said M.S. Mani, senior director at Deloitte India. “Most of the key manufacturing States are reporting a growth of over 20%,” he pointed out. Among the major States, GST revenues grew 29% in Karnataka, 28% in Gujarat, followed by 22% in Maharashtra and 21% each in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Telangana recorded a 25% surge in revenues, while Odisha saw a sharper 40% rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-collections-hit-5-month-high/article36786994.ece
02 October 2021||GUNTUR,||High Court sets aside Group-1 Mains results||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has set aside the results of Group-1 Mains examinations held in December 2018 and directed the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) to do manual evaluation of answer sheets in “conventional mode”, within three months. The judgment is expected to bring some relief to many aspirants. Petitioners had argued that the decision to hand over the conduct of Mains exam and evaluation procedure to a third party private agency had done gross injustice. The petitioners also questioned the validity of experience of the private organisation in handling a governmental recruitment examination, and sought to know the method in which the private organisation trained the evaluators and the parameters applied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-sets-aside-group-1-mains-results/article36786977.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST collections hit 5-month high in Sept.||India’s gross GST revenues crossed Rs. 1.17 lakh crore in September, hitting a five-month high, and the Finance Ministry expects the positive trend to pick up further pace in the second half of the year. September’s revenues were 23% higher than a year ago and 27.3% more than collections in the pre-pandemic month of September 2019. “Coupled with economic growth, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers have also been contributing to the enhanced GST collections,” the Finance Ministry said. For the eighth month in a row, the Ministry did not release any data on compliance levels or the number of GSTR 3B returns filed by taxpayers. However, State-wise revenue trends were disclosed for the third month in a row, after being skipped in January, April, May and June. Revenues from import of goods were 30% higher while indirect tax collected on domestic transactions, including the import of services, were 20% higher in September, compared to the same month in 2020. The significant increase in GST collections indicates country-wide acceleration in business activities, said M.S. Mani, senior director at Deloitte India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-collections-hit-5-month-high-in-sept/article36786979.ece
02 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam eviction: Cong. MLA served notice for ‘provocative’ comment||The Assam unit of the Congress party has issued a show-cause notice to one of its MLAs for a provocative statement linked to an eviction drive in the Darrang district. The party has also asked Sherman Ali Ahmed, who represents Baghbar constituency, to explain accusations that he has been acting as an agent of the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-eviction-cong-mla-served-notice-for-provocative-comment/article36787279.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Day of the elderly||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/day-of-the-elderly/article36787122.ece
02 October 2021||Belagavi,||Tortured girl succumbs to her injuries||The two-and-a-half-year-old girl who suffered torture in a suspected case of black magic at Halyal village near Athani died in Belagavi on Friday. Her identity is yet to be established. Burns The girl had suffered burns, suspected to be from camphor and almond oil. The police had suspected that she was a victim of black magic, based on burn marks that formed a pattern on her body. She was admitted in the paediatric intensive care unit. The girl was being treated for infections that spread from her burns and complications related to epilepsy, a doctor said. The post-mortem report is expected by Saturday, a police officer said. “All our staff worked hard to save the girl. But it was not possible. It is very unfortunate,” said Raj Viveki, director of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. He said the body has been kept in the freezer to see if anyone comes to claim it. “The body will be kept till Monday, when the police and Revenue officials will cremate it,” he said. Farmers had rescued the girl from a sugarcane field where she was thrown after being burnt on September 23. The girl was found in a semi-unconscious state. She had sustained burns from her nose to her private parts and on the back in straight lines. She was shifted to the district hospital after initial treatment in a private hospital in Athani. A case has been registered under sections of murder and other relevant sections of IPC and some provisions of the POCSO Act and Juvenile Justice Act. An investigator said the girl could have been a victim of black magic or her parents or relatives may have gone to a quack to cure her of epilepsy where an unscientific and crude method could have been used. “We were trying to trace her family by sharing information with border States and the general public. But no information is forthcoming. We have released the details again, hoping to get some clue,” said Lakshman Nimbaragi, SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tortured-girl-succumbs-to-her-injuries/article36787197.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||It was the same leopard||In a relief to the residents of Hubballi, it has now been confirmed that the leopard trapped at Kavalageri village was the same one that was sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Betta in Hubballi. The leopard was first sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Betta and during the combing operation the forest personnel had found its pug marks and droppings. Even as the search operations were on, leopard sighting was reported from Kavalageri near Dharwad, where the leopard was finally trapped last Sunday. As it was not sure whether there were two leopards or the same one, the scat of the leopard was sent to a Hyderabad laboratory for testing. Meanwhile the forest personnel had continued their vigil around Nrupatunga Betta and the Deputy Commissioner had ordered for closure of 12 schools in the locality as a precautionary measure. On Friday, the laboratory report confirmed it was the same leopard. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar tweeted that leopard scat samples collected from Nrupatunga Betta in Hubballi and Kavalageri were of the same leopard as per the DNA report from CCMB (Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology), Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-was-the-same-leopard/article36787199.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bandi’s ‘Yatra’ concludes today||The first phase of Praja Sangrama Yatra undertaken by State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar will end on Saturday after a 36-day walkathon with a public meeting at Husnabad and not the original choice of Huzurnagar due to the election code of conduct for the prestigious bypoll scheduled for November. The BJP leader began his walk on August 28 from Bhagyalakshmi temple in Charminar and travelled about 438 km and addressed 35 public meetings besides several impromptu gatherings as people of all walks of life greeted him or poured out their problems. He covered about 19 Assembly and six parliamentary constituencies in the eight districts including Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak, Kamareddy, Sircilla and Siddipet. On Friday, Mr. Kumar criticised KCR for ignoring irrigation projects like Gowravelli and Gandipelli in Husnabad and depriving oustees of proper rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-phase-of-bandis-yatra-concludes-today/article36787243.ece
02 October 2021||Hassan,||Decision on classes for standard 1 to 5 after Dasara||The government will take a decision on starting classes for students of standard 1 to 5 after the Dasara festival. Speaking to mediapersons in Chikkamagaluru on Friday, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh said the response from students to offline classes for standard 6 and above had been impressive. “We will take a call on conducting classes for students of classes 1 to 5 after Dasara. The positivity rate of COVID-19 infection has come down. The government will take a decision after considering all factors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-classes-for-standard-1-to-5-after-dasara/article36787198.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||You are choking Delhi, SC tells farmers||The Supreme Court on Friday accused farmers of “strangulating the city [New Delhi]” with their protest against the farm laws. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ body, for a direction to the Delhi Police to permit them to go on satyagraha at Jantar Mantar. “You have been strangulating the entire city and blocking highways... Now you want to enter the city and protest here?” Justice Khanwilkar lashed out.  The Bench asked why the farmers’ organisations continued with protests even after the laws were under challenge or sub judice in the Supreme Court. ‘Let law take its course’ “Are you then protesting against the judiciary? Once you have approached the court, let the law take its own course... Instead, you continue with the protests and block the national highways... You have to trust us,” Justice Khanwilkar said. Justice Khanwilkar asked the farmers whether they had taken the permission of citizens who lived near the protest sites on the national highways and public roads. “Have you taken permission of the citizens living nearby? There is a right to protest, but there is a right to use public roads and free movement,” he said. “You are even obstructing defence personnel’s movement. You block trains and then say you are protesting peacefully. There is no point in continuing to protest once you have come to the court,” he stated. The mahapanchayat’s counsel, advocate Ajay Choudhary, said the police had blocked the highways and not farmers, who only stressed on their right to protest peacefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/you-are-strangulating-delhi-sc-tells-farmers/article36786993.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||SC slams U.P. for shielding police||The Supreme Court has condemned the U.P. government for shielding police officers accused in an encounter death even as the victim’s father was made to run from pillar to post for justice for 19 years. A Bench led by Justice Vineet Saran ordered the State government to cough up Rs. 7 lakh as costs within a week. The amount would be withdrawn by the father, Yash Pal Singh. In a scathing order, the apex court said, “This is a very serious case where the petitioner, who is father of the deceased, is running from pillar to post to ensure that justice is given to him in a case which was registered against the accused, who were all police officers.”page 16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-slams-up-for-shielding-police/article36787152.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,||State turns its focus on monthly jab target||Karnataka’s vaccination rate has been uneven, with numbers high on ‘Lasika Utsav’ days and lower than the targeted five lakh on others. However, with over 78% of the 4.97 crore adult population having received at least one dose, health officials say the focus is now on the monthly target of 1.4 crore rather than daily numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-turns-its-focus-on-monthly-jab-target/article36786992.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Religious places in Delhi open doors for devotees||Religious places in the Capital were permitted to reopen for devotees from Friday till mid-October, the DDMA said in an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/religious-places-in-delhi-open-doors-for-devotees/article36787120.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab CM urges PM to withdraw farm laws||At his first meeting with the Prime Minister on Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged him to end the deadlock with the agitating farmers by repealing the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-withdraw-farm-laws/article36787280.ece
02 October 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal floods: two dead, 22 lakh hit||Two people, including a child, have died and over 22 lakh people have been affected by floods in West Bengal, the State’s Chief Secretary said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-floods-two-dead-22-lakh-hit/article36787281.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||All eyes on Maharashtra govt.’s move on Param Bir||A day after the Maharashtra Home Minister expressed the possibility of former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh “escaping from India”, there was intense speculation on whether the State would suspend the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eyes-on-maharashtra-govts-move-on-param-bir/article36787283.ece
02 October 2021||Udhagamandalam,||Order passed to hunt tiger that killed humans||An order to hunt the tiger, T23, was passed by the Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden on Friday after the animal killed one more person at Masinagudi in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-passed-to-hunt-tiger-that-killed-humans/article36787182.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Govt. will create global market for farm produce’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that the Union government is making all out efforts to create a global market for agricultural produce of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-create-global-market-for-farm-produce/article36787203.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab CM urges PM to withdraw farm laws||At his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged him to end the deadlock with the agitating farmers by repealing the three farm laws and resuming talks. He also requested that the procurement of paddy be started immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-withdraw-farm-laws/article36787352.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||All eyes on Maharashtra govt.’s move on Param Bir||A day after the Maharashtra Home Minister expressed the possibility of former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh “escaping from India”, there was intense speculation on whether the State would suspend the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eyes-on-maharashtra-govts-move-on-param-bir/article36787353.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab CM urges PM to withdraw farm laws||At his first meeting with the Prime Minister on Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged him to end the deadlock with the agitating farmers by repealing the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-withdraw-farm-laws/article36787469.ece
02 October 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal floods: two dead, 22 lakh hit||Two people, including a child, have died and over 22 lakh people have been affected by floods in West Bengal, the State’s Chief Secretary said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-floods-two-dead-22-lakh-hit/article36787470.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||All eyes on Maharashtra govt.’s move on Param Bir||A day after the Maharashtra Home Minister expressed the possibility of former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh “escaping from India”, there was intense speculation on whether the State would suspend the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eyes-on-maharashtra-govts-move-on-param-bir/article36787471.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Call to focus on plastic waste recycling||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara on Friday said gram panchayat members need to focus more on collection and recycling of plastic waste. He was speaking after launching an awareness campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-to-focus-on-plastic-waste-recycling/article36787450.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab CM urges PM to withdraw farm laws||At his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged him to end the deadlock with the agitating farmers by repealing the three farm laws and resuming talks. During his meeting, the Chief Minister also requested that the procurement of paddy in Punjab be commenced immediately; the process has been put off till OCtober 10. “I asked the PM to resolve the matter of farmers’ protest and resume dialogue with the protesting farmers. I demanded that the three laws should be scrapped,” Mr. Channi told reporters after his meeting with Mr. Modi. Since November 26 last year, farmers have been protesting outside the Delhi border as well as a few other States. Though the Centre has held a few rounds of talks with the farmers’ association, there has no breakthrough as the farmers have been insisting on repealing the three laws. “I have told him that Punjab’s economy is agriculture driven and Punjab can only progress if our farmers and farm labourers are happy,” the Chief Minster said. Kartarpur Corridor The newly appointed Chief Minister also requested the Prime Minister to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor that had been closed as part of the COVID-19 restrictions. Amid an ongoing crisis in the Punjab Congress over the resignation of State unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the newly appointed Chief Minister returned to Chandigarh without meeting the party’s top leadership. Sources in the party however said no meetings were scheduled because the high command did not want to send a signal that it was trying to micro-manage the issue and wanted the State leadership to resolve the problem with Mr. Sidhu. In a parallel development, Congress president Sonia Gandhi met former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and party veteran Kamal Nath on Friday. As Mr. Nath is known to be close to former Punjab Chief Minister Capt. (retd.) Amarinder Singh, the meeting fuelled speculation about developments on the Punjab crisis. However, there was no official word on the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-withdraw-farm-laws/article36786882.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Shringla begins four-day visit to Sri Lanka today||Assessing progress on a number of infrastructure and energy projects, and Sri Lanka’s need for economic assistance, will be at the top of the agenda as Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla arrives in Colombo on Saturday for a four-day visit to Sri Lanka. An MEA release announcing the visit said, “The visit of Foreign Secretary will provide an opportunity to review our bilateral ties, progress of ongoing bilateral projects and ongoing cooperation to tackle COVID-related disruptions.” The release said that Sri Lanka occupies a “central place” in India’s “neighbourhood first” policy. The visit is being seen as an attempt to reset ties that have been under a strain over the Sri Lankan decision to cancel an MoU with India and Japan for Colombo’s East Container Terminal, and slow progress in a number of other proposals, including the Trincomalee oil farms, the Sampur power project (which is being converted to a solar project), and the development of the northern part of the island nation. In particular, New Delhi has been concerned by the perception that while Indian projects have taken inordinately long to be cleared, projects helmed by China have been cleared even during the pandemic, as with the Sri Lankan government’s Parliament vote to facilitate the $1.4 billion China-backed Colombo Port City development in May this year. However, sources said that the Modi government is satisfied that India has a place in the Colombo port with President Gotabaya offering the West Coast Terminal to Adani Ports, for which an agreement was signed on Thursday.  In meetings with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda, the Foreign and Finance Ministers, and his counterpart, Sri Lankan Foreign Secretary Admiral Jayanath Colombage, Mr. Shringla is expected to raise concerns about the reconciliation process and promises of devolution of power to northern Sri Lanka, which have remained unfulfilled more than a decade after the end of the war on the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 2009.   ( With inputs from Meera Srinivasan in Colombo )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-begins-four-day-visit-to-sri-lanka-today/article36786898.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India imposes tit-for-tat travel restrictions on U.K. nationals||India on Friday imposed reciprocal quarantine measures on citizens of the United Kingdom. Sources said the new regulations would enforce a 10-day quarantine on all British nationals in the way that the U.K. currently enforced similar quarantine measures on fully vaccinated Indian nationals. The new measures would come into force from October 4, unless U.K. reverses its decision, said sources, suggesting there was some place for talks. However, the announcement indicated that the talks held so far between officials, and during a meeting of Foreign Ministers in New York last week, had not led anywhere. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had first mentioned the possibility of imposing reciprocal measures on September 21 as the U.K. had not relaxed the quarantine requirement till then. According to the new regulations, all British nationals arriving in India from the U.K., irrespective of their vaccination status, would have to undertake a COVID-19 RT-PCR test within 72 hours before travel, followed by a similar test upon arrival at an Indian airport, which was to be followed by another RT-PCR test on the eighth day after arrival in India. British travellers to India would also have to be in “mandatory quarantine at home or in the destination address for 10 days after arrival in India”. The deepening dispute regarding vaccination certificates and the quarantine period has cast a shadow on expected high-level visits from London to India. Sources explained that the move would not affect the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) staying in the U.K. with permits, but was likely to affect Person of Indian Origin (PIOs) and Overseas Citizen Of India (OCI)-cardholders as they may be citizens of the U.K. The new measures has been imposed though there is no tourist traffic from the U.K. to India at the moment as New Delhi has not resumed issuing tourist visas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-imposes-tit-for-tat-travel-restrictions-on-uk-nationals/article36786906.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Zero tolerance for corruption in Uttarakhand’||Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni , who is also the national media head for the BJP, speaks on the upcoming Assembly election in Uttarakhand and the reasons for multiple changes of Chief Ministers, but denies any schisms within the party.  The BJP changed three CMs in Uttarakhand within a year. Is it a good message going into the polls? The changes reflect our thinking that like in football whoever is close to the goal post is given the pass. Thus Trivendra Singh Rawat passed the ball to Pushkar Singh Dhami and he will be the striker to score the goal. Whatever is required for the State of Uttarakhand and its welfare will be done. There were issues like the Devasthanam Board Act that had hurt feelings in the State but that hasn't been reversed yet. In Trivendra Rawatji’s time, we had set up the Devasthanam Board, we have the Chardham in Uttarakhand and in Devbhoomi (abode of the gods — a term that refers to Uttarakhand) there were many such religious places. But we found that there was some uneasiness among the pandas and purohits in these places of worship. They are our brothers and part of our society and, therefore, we took them on board and set up a committee, under the leadership of our senior leader and MP Manohar Kant Dhyaniji to review the Act, to address all the objections to the Board. When Tirath Singh Rawat was appointed Chief Minister, wasn’t the fact that he would need to fight a bypoll for the Assembly taken into account? Why then was he removed? When he was made Chief Minister, there was a little more than a year left for the term of the Assembly. But circumstances intervened in the form of the second wave of COVID-19 when bypolls or any other elections were not being held, and thus such a decision had to be taken. Bypolls have been held for West Bengal and other Assemblies. Couldn’t polls have been held in Uttarakhand for one seat? At that particular time (when Tirath Singh Rawat quit) there was no prospect of polls being held, and as more and more days were passing and the Assembly elections were looming, we had to take the decision that we did. The big regional rivalry in Uttarakhand is said to be Kumaon vs Garhwal. Now with a Chief Minister from Kumaon, it is said that there is widespread resentment in the Garhwal area, considered a stronghold for the BJP. I myself am from Garhwal, along with Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, as well as several other senior leaders of the BJP. Thus, I can tell you there is no such resentment. This can be a subject for media speculation, but is not the actual situation on the ground. The BJP has started something called the Assam Model, where it is not necessary that the Chief Minister under whom the party wins an election is repeated. It is being said that the same might be repeated for Uttarakhand. What is decided later is a matter for the party, but the fact is that the captain of our team is Pushkar Singh Dhami and our entire team is fighting alongside him. State unit chief Madan Kaushik will lead the party and Dhamiji will lead the government. Our goal is to win the poll. Through these chief ministerial changes what do you think is the achievement of the government that you will go to the people with? The Uttarakhand government under BJP has zero tolerance for corruption and its our record that no allegation of corruption has been laid against our door. This is a big departure from what was there under the Harish Rawat government of the Congress. Under the Congress, there was politics of appeasement in this Devbhoomi ; then chief minister Harish Rawat used to visit the holy shrines of only one particular community and instituted the Jumma holiday. When the BJP came to power we made sure we took every community along and ended the politics of appeasement. Our government provides Rs. 1 per litre water in the State and has covered every household under the Atal Ayushman Yojana. Uttarakhand is the first State where women have equal rights to property. The Haridwar Kumbh saw a big scam with regard to fake testing and other controversies, will this affect your prospects? You people unfairly compared the Prayag Kumbh to the Hardwar Kumbh. The scam of testing that you are talking about was not at the level it has been portrayed, there were issues but the government is dealing with it.  Dhamiji will lead the government. Our goal is to win the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zero-tolerance-for-corruption-in-uttarakhand/article36786878.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India, Sri Lanka can learn a lot from each other’||After several months of strain in India-Sri Lanka ties, and the COVID lockdown, the visit by Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla to Colombo on Saturday is being seen as an effort to reset ties. In an exclusive interview, Sri Lankan High Commissioner Milinda Moragoda says the visit will see a full review of bilateral projects and proposals in the area of ports, oil, energy and digital technology . In the integrated country strategy for India that you presented to your government before you came to Delhi, you spoke of a “growing trust deficit” between India and Sri Lanka. What is the primary cause of it? Our relationship is civilisational, that dates from Buddha and Rama and our relationship is defined by those two aspects. In the context of the trust deficits, I think from time to time, these things happen. Just like in the 1980s, there was a perception that Sri Lanka was close to the U.S. and now the perception is that we are there with China. Our PM Mahinda Rajapaksa says that India and Sri Lanka are like brothers and sisters, and therefore, there can be misunderstandings, there can be wrong perceptions. But those are things we discuss with each other, and as long as we don't always look at every little episode as a huge issue, we can resolve these [perceptions]. Do you think that the decision to scrap the India-Japan MoU on the East Coast terminal in 2020 has damaged India- Sri Lanka relations perceptibly? I don’t think it has damaged… I mean, the basic reality is we are a democracy and we are a South Asian democracy… if it was a dictatorship, the ECT could have been given by simply issuing an order, but as there was resistance to that particular terminal being handed over, the government offered another Terminal, the West Coast Terminal, for which the agreement was signed yesterday by the Adani group. And from a commercial point of view, we expect a doubling of our capacity in Colombo harbour, between the two ports in the next five years or so, most of which — about 80% — is trans-shipment to India. Sri Lanka’s track record has not been good – apart from the ECT, the government has backtracked on the Trincomalee oil tank farms project, Mattala airport. There is a sense in India that Sri Lanka is hesitant to go ahead with projects promised to India… I think that is wrong. I mean, the Adani port is one where from the moment President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced the decision for the WCT, it was a matter of months. In fact that the deal was signed one month earlier than it was due to be signed, it was actually ready to be signed early November. I hope that we can build such strategic projects in ports, oil and gas, renewable energy with a common grid and the digital area. One area we are looking at seriously is India’s Aadhar card project. We will move sometimes one step back, sometimes three steps forward. That's how it works. In your integrated country strategy, there is little mention on the Tamil reconciliation process. Does that mean that you believe India no longer has a role in the resolution of Sri Lanka's problems in the north? We said in the strategy that the two countries could learn from each other when it comes to democracy and diversity, because we have a lot to learn from each other. There is there's no question about saying India has no role. In the context of the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka, I feel we should think afresh. In Sri Lanka the way we are divided, we are a highly polarised society. We are polarised on party lines, on ethnic lines, on religious lines, on language lines. And that reconciliation has to be across the board because the trauma has been across the country. I think we need to give President Gotabaya the opportunity to implement what he was elected for. [India-Sri Lanka] need to talk about it, we should engage each other. But finally, the solution we have to find out on our own. With [India’s] support. Prime Minister Modi announced very recently that India will restart its exports of vaccines that had been suddenly stopped after the second wave here. Is Sri Lanka hopeful of getting some of those vaccines? We will obviously appreciate it if vaccines are available. Our vaccination programme is going quite smoothly so far. We would like it if India does start re exporting but we have been able to, I think, manage [the vaccine situation] here.  We are like brothers and sisters, and there can be misunderstandings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sri-lanka-can-learn-a-lot-from-each-other/article36786900.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC slams U.P. for shielding police in encounter case||In a shocking case of the State virtually supporting an extrajudicial killing, the Supreme Court has condemned the Uttar Pradesh government for screening police officers accused in an encounter death even as the victim’s father was made to run from pillar to post for justice for 19 long years. A Bench led by Justice Vineet Saran ordered the State government to cough up Rs. 7 lakh as costs within a week. The amount would be withdrawn by the father, Yash Pal Singh. In a scathing order, the apex court said, “This is a very serious case where the petitioner, who is father of the deceased, is running from pillar to post to ensure that justice is given to him in a case which was registered against the accused, who were all police officers.” The order coincides with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressing his strong reservations about the conduct of police officers and bureaucracy in the country. In its order, the Bench of Justices Saran and Aniruddha Bose detailed the horror of the plight of a father fighting against the odds piled on him relentlessly by the State. Closure report The incident dates back to 2002. The police shortly after filed a closure report in the death, favouring the accused police officers. However, the trial court had not been convinced and rejected the closure report in January 2005. The trial court gave detailed reasons for declining to close the case in favour of the accused. None of the police officers were arrested for the murder for the next nine months though there was no stay order on their arrest. The first arrest was in October 2005 of just one accused. The case remained pending for over a decade without further arrest. Even the Allahabad High Court’s refusal to quash the case did not prompt an arrest. Successive orders of the trial court to stop payment of salaries to the accused were ignored by the State government. The court has listed the case again on October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-slams-up-for-shielding-police-officers/article36786908.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covishield will be treated as recognised vaccine: Australia||Australia has recognised the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII). In a statement to the media, Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday said Covishield will be treated as part of the “recognised vaccines” in Australia. However, it was not yet clear if the recognition of the India-made vaccine would help Indian tourists and students visit Australia. According to a spokesperson from the Australian High Commission, vaccinated travellers would have to produce a vaccination certificate to enter Australia. “Today, the TGA [Therapeutic Goods Administration] has published its initial assessment of the data on the protection offered by the Coronavac [Sinovac] and Covishield [AstraZeneca/SII] vaccines and has advised that these vaccines should be considered as ‘recognised vaccines’ for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated,” said Mr. Morrison, emphasising that the latest announcement was aimed at reuniting Australian families and to welcome tourists back to Australia. This announcement was likely to help Australian nationals who had taken Covishield doses and were expecting to travel to Australia, which had travel barriers at the moment. The government of Australia was committed to ensure that Australians who were “fully vaccinated” abroad could return home without unnecessary obstacles, the statement said. “The recognition of these two additional vaccines is a major milestone towards more Australians vaccinated overseas getting home sooner,” said Mr. Morrison. The announcement came a day after Mr. Morrison indicated that the status of Covishield in Australia was pending before the TGA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covishield-will-be-treated-as-recognised-vaccine-australia/article36786922.ece
02 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Take action against police in jawan torture case, says HC||The Allahahad High Court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to take immediate action as per law against the policemen accused of assaulting and torturing a former Army jawan in Pilibhit district in May. It also asked the State to conclude the investigation expeditiously, preferably within three months, while ensuring a fair probe into the charges levelled by the victim, Resham Singh, as well the first information report (FIR) lodged for “violating COVID-19 protocol and using force against officials to deter them from carrying out their duty”. “A public functionary if he acts maliciously or oppressively and the exercise of power results in harassment and agony, then it is not an exercise of power but its abuse,” a Division Bench of Justices Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Piyush Agrawal said. They said the preliminary inquiry report was yet to be submitted. Resham Singh had said that on May 3, when he, with his mother and two sisters, was going from Pilibhit to Lalhimpur Kheri to pay homage to his brother-in-law, who had died a day earlier, they were stopped by the police in Puranpu. The police demanded the papers of the car they were travelling in. Since sorting the papers took some time, the police on duty got annoyed and started abusing the family, he alleged. The police took him and his family to the police station. They beat him using sticks, gave him third degree torture and abused him, he alleged. While the government had told the court that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) had been constituted, Mr. Singh accused the police of not fairly investigating the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-action-against-police-in-jawan-torture-case-says-hc/article36786911.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Key road projects begin in Ladakh||Five major road infrastructure development projects were launched in Ladakh from Turtuk, the northernmost village of India, on Friday by Governor of Ladakh R.K. Mathur. The projects include preparation of greenfield alignment and upgradation of major single-lane roads to double-lane and tunnelling works, the Defence Ministry said. Following the Memorandum of Understanding signed on September 3 between the Ladakh administration and the Border Roa- ds Organisation (BRO), projects involving construction, improvement of roads and tunnels were assigned to BRO for development of connectivity in the hilly region, a Ministry statement said. The construction of the Hanuthang-Handanbroke-Zungpal-Turtuk road, a 26.6-k.m.-long greenfield road, is planned to provide inter-valley connectivity between Hanuthang-Handanbroke (Indus Valley) and Zungpal-Turtuk (Shyok Valley) across the Stakpuchan range. “This will also reduce the travel time to three and half hours from existing nine hours to Turtuk via Leh without crossing the treache rous Khardungla pass,” the statement said. The upgradation of four major single-lane roads has also commenced. These are the 78 km road from Khalse to Batallik, 50 km road from Kargil to Dumgil, which will also include construction of a tunnel at Hambotingla, 70 km road from Khalsar to Shyokvia Agham and 31 km from Tangtse to Lukung, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-road-projects-begin-in-ladakh/article36786892.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air Marshal Sandeep Singh takes over as Vice Chief of Air Staff||Air Marshal Sandeep Singh took over as Vice Chief of the Air Staff (VCAS) on Friday. In other appointments, the Integrated Defence Staff and the Western Air Command also got new chiefs. A new Chief Hydrographer to the government was also appointed. “An alumnus of National Defence Academy, Air Marshal Singh was commissioned in the flying branch of IAF in December 1983 as a fighter pilot. He is an Experimental Test Pilot and a Qualified Flying Instructor,” an IAF statement said. He has more than 4,400 hours of flying experience in operational and experimental test-flying of various types of fighter aircraft, it added. Air Marshal B.R. Krishna took over as the Chief of the Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC). He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 1983 and is a qualified flying instructor and experimental test pilot. Air Marshal Amit Dev assumed office as the Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C) of the Western Air Command.  Vice-Admiral Adhir Arora took charge as the Chief Hydrographer to the Government of India from Vice-Admiral Vinay Badhwar, who superannuated from active service on September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-marshal-sandeep-singh-takes-over-as-vice-chief-of-air-staff/article36786967.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.S. to set up working group on defence industrial security||India and the United States have agreed in principle to establish a Indo-U.S. Industrial Security Joint Working Group, the Defence Ministry said on Friday. “This group will meet periodically to align the policies and procedures expeditiously that will allow the defence industries to collaborate on cutting edge defence technologies,” a Ministry statement stated. This was agreed during the Industrial Security Agreement summit held between the two sides from September 27 to October 1 in New Delhi. The summit was organised to develop protocol for exchanging classified information between the defence industries of both the nations, the statement noted. It was led by Designated Security Authorities (DSA) Anurag Bajpai and David Paul Bagnati from India and the U.S. respectively. The DSAs also visited Indian defence industry in preparation of a road map.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-to-set-up-working-group-on-defence-industrial-security/article36786896.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Unions challenge delay in paddy procurement||A number of farmer unions from Punjab and Haryana have raised objections to the Centre’s decision to postpone procurement of paddy in both States until October 11, citing higher moisture content due to rainfall. The unions have called on farmers to protest the move outside the homes of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) legislators from Saturday. Procurement of paddy at minimum support prices (MSP) for the 2021-2022 kharif marketing season was originally scheduled to start on October 1 in Punjab, and from September 25 in Haryana. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha platform of protesting unions, the majority of which are based in Punjab and Haryana, plans to hold protests against the postponement from Saturday, by gheraoing legislators from the BJP and its ally the JJP, as well as District Commissioners’ offices. “The government’s excuse that it is being done due to delayed rains has no validity because the government itself has sanctioned short term varieties of paddy which are ready and which are waiting in the markets,” said a statement. “From 10 o’clock [on Saturday], Haryana farmers should take their paddy to the homes of BJP-JJP MLAs and demand that their paddy be weighed right there,” said Rakesh Tikait, leader of another faction of the BKU. The Food Ministry stated, “Procurement of paddy at high moisture content is fraught with risk of increase in damage percentage of rice grain. Also the grain will become vulnerable to shrivelling, blackening, discolouration and prone to infestation. This may lead to rejection at procurement centres and would lead to distress sale of paddy and consequent loss to the farmers.” “The better course would be to harvest the paddy crop offered after a period of 10 days i.e. after proper maturity then the problem of moisture can be minimised,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-challenge-delay-in-paddy-procurement/article36786880.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Blood pressure, cholesterol control key for Type 1 diabetes||Good control of not only blood sugar but also blood pressure and cholesterol is essential for survival and a good quality of life among Type 1 diabetics (T1D), according to a pan-India study of long-term survivors with the condition. A first-of-its kind report of long-term survivors of T1D from India, a multi-centric study was published in the peer-reviewed journal Diabetes Technology and Therapeutics . Comparing survivors for over 40 years with people who did not survive up to 40 years, the researchers found that “survivors had better glycemic and blood pressure control, more favourable lipid profiles and lower prevalence of complications compared to non-survivors”. However, they added that “there could be other protective factors as well, which merit further studies”. The survivors also had better height and weight parameters compared to the other group. Individuals with T1D have increased morbidity and excess premature mortality compared to those without diabetes and their life expectancy is reduced by an estimated 15-20 years, even with the life-saving insulin to their assistance. However, long-term survival with T1D is possible and 40% of European individuals with T1D are reported to survive for more than 40 years with life expectancy now extending almost up to 70 years, the paper added. In fact, two patients in the study have lived over 70 years with T1D, said V. Mohan, of Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialties Centre (DMDSC), and lead author. A total of 127 participants with T1D were included in the study which comprised of 76 survivors of over 40 years duration and 51 non-survivors. Of the 76 survivors, 59 were from DMDSC, the coordinating centre in Chennai, and 17 from other participating centres (5 from the Madras Medical College, Chennai; 5 from Ahmedabad, 3 from Delhi, 2 from Kolkata and 1 each from Mumbai and Nagpur). Among the 76 T1D survivors, 58 individuals had survived 40-49 years with diabetes, 12 individuals 50-59 years and 6 individuals, over 60 years with diabetes. India is home to more than 95,000 children with T1D, reported to be the highest in the world, according to the 9th International Diabetes Federation Atlas, the study points out, but most reports on long term survival were from the U.S. and Europe and none from India. Given that life expectancy in India is in general lower, the subject definitely needs attention, the authors argued. ‘More study needed’ While the study showed a significant differentiation in blood glucose, blood pressure and cholesterol levels determining better survival and quality of life, Dr. Mohan said it was interesting that many of the long-term survivors in the study were not prescribed intensive insulin therapy in the first 10 years or so after diagnosis, and they still seemed to be protected from complications. This definitely calls for more studies, he added.  Survivors of T1D had better glycemic and blood pressure control, more favourable lipid profiles and lower prevalence of complications compared to non-survivors Authors of the study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blood-pressure-cholesterol-control-key-for-type-1-diabetes/article36786968.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||HC notices over KLIP third TMCft works||He stated that “with the pressure tactics of the executive and land acquisition officers, some farmers surrendered their lands”. While Union Jal Shakthi Minister wrote to Telangana Chief Minister not to go ahead with the new works relating to additional 1 TMCft capacity, the National Green Tribunal said in an order that the additional capacity works should be treated as a new project. For this, a new environment impact assessment and clearance was required. Not paying heed to such directions, the State government had gone ahead with the fresh construction works relating to the additional 1 TMCft capacity of the project, the petitioner contended. Meanwhile, the Centre exercising its powers under AP Reorganisation Act-2014 issued a gazette notification no. 2637 on this July 16 constituting the River Boards for Krishna and Godavari rivers. Declaring the works relating to 1 TMCft as a new project, the Centre instructed the State government not to undertake any works pertaining to it, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notices-over-klip-third-tmcft-works/article36787217.ece
02 October 2021||Jaipur,||Modi praises Rajasthan Chief Minister Gehlot||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during a foundation stone laying ceremony of medical colleges in the State, even as the senior Congress leader is caught in a war of nerves with the party’s high command over sharing of power with the rival camp led by his former deputy, Sachin Pilot. Mr. Modi thanked Mr. Gehlot at the virtual event on Thursday for trusting him with a number of tasks. He said this kind of “friendship, trust and faith” was the real strength of democracy. The Chief Minister had opened his heart and expressed his faith in a display of strong relationship, he stated. “I was listening to the Chief Minister of Rajasthan. He has given a long list of projects. His political ideology and party is different and mine is different, but he has so much faith in me. This friendship, trust and faith is a big strength of democracy,” Mr. Modi noted. Mr. Gehlot had requested the Prime Minister to take a decision for opening medical colleges in the remaining districts of the State, approve a medical device park in Jodhpur and a bulk drug park in Kota. The virtual programme marked the foundation stone laying of medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa districts. Mr. Modi's remarks assumed significance amid speculations that former Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retd.) Amarinder Singh may forge a relationship with the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is exploring its options in that State.  His political ideology and party is different and mine is different, but he has so much faith in me Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-praises-rajasthan-chief-minister-gehlot/article36786874.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||CJI for special panels to probe police ‘atrocities’||The observation came when the court was reserving judgment on petitions filed by suspended Additional Director General of Police Gurjinder Pal Singh in Chhattisgarh. He had sought protection from arrest in various criminal cases, including sedition, extortion and criminal intimidation, arraigned against him by the current government. The court, in its order on Friday, refused to protect Mr. Singh in a corruption case filed against him. However, it protected him in the sedition and extortion cases till the High Court decided them on merit in two months. The court recently made oral observations in the case about how police officers act with impunity with one government but have to “pay back with interest” when there is a regime change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-for-special-panels-to-probe-police-atrocities/article36786964.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||You are choking Delhi, SC tells farmers||The Bench asked why the farmers’ organisations continued with protests even after the laws were under challenge or sub judice in the Supreme Court. “Are you then protesting against the judiciary? Once you have approached the court, let the law take its own course... Instead, you continue with the protests and block the national highways... You have to trust us,” Justice Khanwilkar said. Justice Khanwilkar asked the farmers whether they had taken the permission of citizens who lived near the protest sites on the national highways and public roads. “Have you taken permission of the citizens living nearby? There is a right to protest, but there is a right to use public roads and free movement,” he said. “You are even obstructing defence personnel’s movement. You block trains and then say you are protesting peacefully. There is no point in continuing to protest once you have come to the court,” he stated. ‘Police to blame’ The mahapanchayat’s counsel, advocate Ajay Choudhary, said the police had blocked the highways and not farmers, who only stressed on their right to protest peacefully. The Bench directed the petitioner to serve an advance copy of their petition on the Attorney General and listed the case for Monday. The court also ordered the organisation to file an affidavit “declaring they are not part of the protest being carried out, blocking the highways”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/you-are-choking-delhi-sc-tells-farmers/article36786876.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Renunciation of Indian citizenship now simpler||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has simplified the process for Indians who want to renounce their citizenship. Provisions have been made for applicants to upload documents online, with an upper limit of 60 days for the renunciation process to be completed. Over 6.7 lakh Indians renounced their citizenship between 2015-19, the Lok Sabha was informed in February. In 2018, the MHA revised the Form XXII under the Citizenship Rules for declaration of renunciation of citizenship, which for the first time included a column on “circumstances/reasons due to which applicant intends to acquire foreign citizenship and renounce Indian citizenship”. An official familiar with the subject said there was no sudden surge in the number of applications to renounce citizenship but the online process has been initiated to check fraudulent documents and “reduce the compliance burden”. As many as 1,41,656 Indians renounced their citizenship in the year 2015, while in the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, the numbers stood at 1,44,942, 1,27,905, 1,25,130 and 1,36,441, respectively. The Ministry issued new guidelines on September 16 stating that the form, after being filled online, has to be downloaded, signed and submitted at the District Magistrate’s office, if the applicant is in India, or at the nearest Indian mission, if she or he is in a foreign country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/renunciation-of-indian-citizenship-now-simpler/article36786884.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||GST collections hit 5-month high in Sept.||Indirect tax collected on domestic transactions, including the import of services, were 20% higher in September, compared to the same month in 2020. The significant increase in GST collections both from import and domestic transactions and the marked increase in the collections in key States indicates country-wide acceleration in business activities, said M.S. Mani, senior director at Deloitte India. “Most of the key manufacturing States are reporting a growth of over 20%,” he pointed out. Among the major States, GST revenues grew 29% in Karnataka, 28% in Gujarat, followed by 22% in Maharashtra and 21% each in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Telangana recorded a 25% surge in revenues, while Odisha saw a sharper 40% rise. “The average monthly gross GST collection for the second quarter of the current year has been Rs. 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5% higher than the average monthly collection of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year. This clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace,” the Finance Ministry said. “Although the pace of growth eased relative to the 30% logged in August 2021, this owes to a normalising base,” noted Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA. “The release of GST compensation cess of Rs. 22,000 crore will benefit the States' cash flow situation, allowing accelerated spending in the third quarter of 2021-22 that would complement the expected boost to central government spending after the easing of cash management guidelines,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-collections-hit-5-month-high-in-sept/article36786885.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Amarinder, Rawat spar as Cong. crisis continues||“Then through one of his well-wishers I sent him a message that there is a demand for CLP meeting, and we have no option but to call the CLP meeting. Despite getting the message, Capt. Amarinder didn’t bother to telephone me. Then I suggested to the party high command, that if we delay the matter then many MLAs may form a separate group or may create some problem for the party. It was then decided to call a CLP meeting,” said Mr Rawat, adding “No humiliation was done to him.” The senior Congress leader alleged that after Capt.Amarinder met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the theory of humiliation is being circulated to gain the sympathy of the people. ‘Loyalty questioned’ Countering the allegations, Capt. Amarinder in a statement said: “Three weeks before stepping down as CM, I had offered my resignation to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi but she had asked me to continue.” Stating that the humiliating manner in which he was pushed into resigning just hours before the CLP meeting, which was clearly convened to oust him, was a matter of public record, he said, “The world saw the humiliation and the insult heaped on me, and yet Mr. Rawat is making claims to the contrary.” “If this was not humiliation then what was it?” Capt. Amarinder said. The former CM of Punjab recalled that Mr. Rawat himself had publicly stated after meeting him that he was satisfied by his government’s track record on the 2017 poll promises. In fact, the Mr. Rawat had categorically stated, as recently as September 1, that the 2022 elections would be fought under his (Capt. Amarinder’s) leadership and the high command had no intention of replacing him, he pointed out. “So how can he now claim that the party leadership was dissatisfied with me, and if they were, then why did he deliberately keep me in the dark all this time?” he questioned. On Mr. Rawat’s remarks that he [Capt. Amarinder] seemed to be under pressure, the former Chief Minister said the only pressure he had been under for the past few months was that of his own loyalty to the Congress, because of which he continued to tolerate insult after insult. “If the party did not intend to humiliate me then why was Navjot Singh Sidhu allowed to openly criticise and attack me on social media and other public platforms for months? Why did the party give the rebels, led by Sidhu, a free hand in undermining my authority? Why was no cognisance given to the uninterrupted spree of electoral wins I handed over to the party through the four-and-a-half years I was in the saddle,” he asked. ‘Lies about phone call’ Dismissing claims that he did not answer calls from Mr Rawat, Capt. Amarinder said it was all humbug. “We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Mr. Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works and even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this,” the former Chief Minister added. Capt. Amarinder also dismissed as total nonsense Mr. Rawat’s remarks that he was ‘circulating the theory of humiliation after meeting Amit Shah’, and pointed out that he had clearly said on the day of his resignation (long before his meeting with the Union Home Minister) that he had been humiliated thrice by the Congress party, which had sidelined him to convene CLP meetings twice in Delhi and the last time in Chandigarh even though he was the CLP leader then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-rawat-spar-as-cong-crisis-continues/article36786886.ece
02 October 2021||washington,||Rawat meets Milley||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat met his U.S. counterpart, General Mark Milley, here on Thursday and they discussed a range of issues, including ways to ensure regional security, the Pentagon said. “The two leaders agreed to continued cooperation in training exercises and creating more opportunities to increase interoperability between the two militaries,” Joint Staff Spokesperson Col. Dave Butler said in a readout on the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rawat-meets-milley/article36786894.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Why disqualify the 72 women Army officers?’||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to explain the reasons for finding 72 women Army officers ineligible for permanent commission. It said they should not be relieved from service till the next date of court hearing. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna intervened after the lawyers for the women officers said their clients were disqualified despite satisfying the 60% assessment threshold for permanent commission as prescribed by the court in a judgment in March last. The March 25 order directed the government to grant permanent commission to “Women Short Service Commissions Officers who obtained 60% marks in their assessment subject to their meeting the medical criteria prescribed by the Army’s August 1, 2020 order and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance”. The women officers, represented by senior advocates Meenakshi Arora, Husefa Ahmadi and V. Mohana, said their disqualification was a gross violation of the March judgment. The court has asked the government to produce a complete chart of the reasons. It posted the case for October 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-disqualification-of-72-women-army-officers/article36786910.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army chief reviews ground situation in eastern Ladakh||Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Naravane on Friday visited the forward areas and was briefed on the security situation and operational preparedness. The visit comes as India and China continue discussions for complete disengagement and de-escalation to end the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the area. Both sides are undertaking winter stocking to support the thousands of troops deployed along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since the stand-off began in May last year. “Gen. Naravane visited Rezang La memorial in eastern Ladakh and paid homage to the bravehearts who laid down their lives for the nation,” the Army said. He also interacted with the troops and complimented them for their resoluteness and high morale. The memorial is close to the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake), which saw action last August when both sides deployed tanks within couple of hundred metres from each other. These, along with other armoured elements and troops, were withdrawn as part of the first phase of disengagement from both banks of Pangong Tso in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-chief-reviews-ground-situation-in-eastern-ladakh/article36786891.ece
02 October 2021||Srinagar,||RSS to widen base across J&K ‘to inculcate patriotism’||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, on Friday called upon his followers to set up a network of shakhas (units) in the Union Territory to “inculcate patriotism among people”. He chaired a meeting with members at Keshav Bhawan, the headquarters of the RSS in Jammu. Mr. Bhagwat held deliberations over the spreading of organisational work in new areas. He called for the setting up of a network of RSS shakhas in every nook and corner of Jammu and Kashmir, an RSS spokesman said. The RSS has a strong base in the Jammu-Samba-Kathua belt and has been able to set up newer units in the Pir Panjal and the Chenab Valley since 2014.  Reaching out Mr. Bhagwat emphasised the need for further spreading organisational networks so as to reach out to every home with the message of the RSS, the spokesman said.  Mr. Bhagwat reviewed various projects initiated by the RSS wing of J&K for the development of villages and rural economy. He also called for a comprehensive training programme to meet the challenge of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-to-widen-base-across-jk-to-inculcate-patriotism/article36786893.ece
02 October 2021||Srinagar,||Gupkar Alliance terms MHA report on J&K as ‘fabricated’||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, an amalgam of regional parties fighting for the restoration of the special constitutional position of Jammu and Kashmir, on Friday termed a report by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on the region “concocted and fabricated” and said “the ground situation belies these claims”. “The claims in a recently released report by the Union Home Ministry titled ‘The dream of one nation, one law, one symbol fulfilled’ is far from the reality. The reality is that there is a systematic disempowerment of the people of J&K, which is continuing to happen through bureaucratic rule,” Gupkar Alliance spokesman and CPI(M) leader M.Y Tarigami said. He said there were “concocted and fabricated” claims of the BJP government that the abrogation of the special status and downgrading of a State into two Union Territories had paved the way for new industries, created new employment opportunities, decreased terror incidents, brought atmosphere of peace and security, nurtured democracy, eradicated corruption, and brought new Central laws for the betterment of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gupkar-alliance-terms-mha-report-on-jk-as-fabricated/article36786895.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||NGRI working on early warning systems for landslide and floods||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has launched an ‘Environmental Seismology’ group to develop a ‘Landslide and Flood Early Warning System’ for the Himalayan region based on real-time monitoring with dense seismological networks, coupled with satellite data, numerical modelling and geomorphic analysis. “This would enable a crucial warning several hours prior, which will save precious human lives and property in future during such events,” said director V.M. Tiwari on Friday. The need for such an early warning system was necessitated following February’s rockslide flood disaster in Chamoli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngri-working-on-early-warning-systems-for-landslide-and-floods/article36787204.ece
02 October 2021||Patna,||Chirag seeks LJP symbol for bypolls||The Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party has claimed the right to use party’s name and symbol for the upcoming bypoll on two Assembly seats in Bihar, and has written to the Election Commission to reject the claim of his estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras to be party president. The bypoll on two seats — Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwarsthan in Darbhanga — is scheduled for October 30 with results to be announced on November 2. “Paras’ claim of being the party president also violates the party’s constitution,” said Abdul Khaliq, general secretary of the LJP(Chirag faction). However, Mr. Paras has asserted that LJP and its election symbol — the bungalow — belonged to his faction only. Meanwhile, the RJD has announced that it will contest both the seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chirag-seeks-ljp-symbol-for-bypolls/article36786963.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Modi launches missions for better cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation would be aimed at making cities free of garbage and ensuring safe drinking water. It would also be ensured that no untreated water was discharged into any of the rivers in the country. Launching the second edition of the mission, he applauded the country for fulfilling the pledge of making it free of open defecation. Mr. Modi said that people came to cities seeking a better life. Even if they managed to find employment, their living standards often suffered. It was a double whammy for workers: first they were away from their homes and then they were forced to live in deplorable conditions, he stated, adding that the missions would improve cities. India was processing about one lakh tonnes of waste every day. Under the new phases of the two missions, the garbage mountains that pile up at the borders of cities would be processed and completely removed, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-launches-missions-for-better-cities/article36786965.ece
02 October 2021||Kolkata,||‘Bengal tops in per capita income growth’||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Friday said that the State had ranked number one in terms of net per capita income growth in 2020-21 as per the Reserve Bank of India’s ‘Handbook of Statistics on Indian Economy’. “W.Bengal ranked No 1 State by RBI on Net PerCapita Income Growth in 2020-21. Bravo ! WB’s growth + 7.16% while India average - 3.99. Flying colours for @MamataOfficial...,” Mr. Mitra posted on his Twitter feed. The West Bengal Finance Minister’s tweet was highlighted by several leaders of the Trinamool Congress, including the party’s national spokesperson Derek O’Brien who added that, “and now you [know] why people in other States are taking note”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-tops-in-per-capita-income-growth/article36786913.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||Congress needs full-time chief, says Sena; claims party's old guard in ‘secret pact with BJP’ to stop Rahul Gandhi||The Shiv Sena on Friday emphasised the need to appoint a full-time Congress president, and said the confusion prevailing over the leadership in the party was as much responsible for the political crisis in Punjab as the BJP. It also claimed that the old guard in the party had a secret pact with the BJP and were “trying to sink” the Congress by creating obstacles for new people.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-needs-full-time-chief-says-sena-claims-partys-old-guard-in-secret-pact-with-bjp-to-stop-rahul-gandhi/article36786872.ece
02 October 2021||Lucknow,||Akhilesh accuses BJP of deploying U.P. officials for ‘political work’||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh was deploying administrative officials and police officers for “political work” to help it win elections, and this was the reason why no action was taken against them in cases of wrongdoing or criminal allegations against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-accuses-bjp-of-deploying-up-officials-for-political-work/article36786888.ece
02 October 2021||Srinagar,||LeT militant killed, another arrested in Kashmir Valley||A Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant was killed in south Kashmir on Friday, while a resident of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and a local LeT militant were arrested in two separate operations in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-militant-killed-another-arrested-in-kashmir-valley/article36786912.ece
02 October 2021||Kolkata,||Durga Puja pandals in Bengal to remain out of bounds to visitors||Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal will remain out of bounds to visitors for a second year in a row due to COVID-19 curbs. The State on Friday informed the Calcutta High Court that curbs imposed last year would be enforced this year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/durga-puja-pandals-in-bengal-to-remain-out-of-bounds-to-visitors/article36786914.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai court issues summons to Deshmukh in ED case||A magistrate court on Friday issued process (summons) against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for not appearing before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) despite it issuing five summonses to him. The court was hearing an application by the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-court-issues-summons-to-deshmukh-in-ed-case/article36786920.ece
02 October 2021||Jaipur,||Digvijay seeks probe into drug seizure||Veteran Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh on Friday demanded a judicial inquiry into the seizure of heroin worth Rs. 21,000 crore at the Mundra Port in Gujarat, saying he had no faith in the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which was set to take over the probe. Mr. Singh alleged that some BJP leaders were involved in drug smuggling. Mr. Singh stated at a press conference here that the BJP government at the Centre should reveal what action it had taken under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against those involved in drug peddling. The NIA could not be trusted because it had worked for acquittal of the people having connections with the BJP and involved in terrorist activities. He said a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge should conduct the inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digvijay-seeks-probe-into-drug-seizure/article36786873.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Khurshid for talks between party leaders||With P. Chidambaram expressing helplessness over lack of “meaningful conversations” within the Congress, party colleague Salman Khurshid on Friday said he had hoped the discussions the former Finance Minister spoke of might have been led by him and called for a dialogue between the leaders of the party. “But of course Mr Chidambaram let us all talk, not just talk but talk with each other,” Mr. Khurshid wrote in a long Facebook post. In an apparent swipe at the ‘Group of 23’ leaders and Kapil Sibal’s remarks questioning the party’s functioning, Mr. Khurshid, known to be close to the Gandhi family, said questioning time-tested leadership style and substance in isolation from the popular prevailing opinion of ground-level workers was “very worrying.” Weighing in on the internal bickering within the Congress following Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation as the party’s Punjab unit chief, Mr. Khurshid, in a long Facebook post, said just “as we saw” a ray of hope in the appointment of the new Chief Minister of Punjab “things tumbled out of control”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khurshid-for-talks-between-party-leaders/article36786889.ece
02 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal floods: two dead, 22 lakh hit||Two persons, including a child, have died and over 22 lakh persons have been affected by floods in West Bengal, the State’s Chief Secretary said on Friday. Speaking to presspersons at the State Secretariat Nabanna Buildings, West Bengal Chief Secretary H.K. Dwivedi said the flood situation had become serious because of discharge of water from the reservoir of two river systems, the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) on the Damodar river, and the Sikatiya Barrage on the Ajay river. Mr. Dwivedi said preliminary estimates suggested that over 1 lakh houses had been damaged, and 2 lakh persons had taken shelter in about 1,500 camps in south Bengal. About 4 lakh persons had been evacuated in these areas. Several areas of Howrah, Hooghly, Paschim Medinipur, Paschim Bardhaman and Birbhum had been affected by the floods. Eight columns of the Army had been deployed in the affected areas, along with 25 companies of the National Disaster Response Force and 24 companies of the State Disaster Response Force. About 200 boats had also been pressed into service in the affected areas. The State government had provided necessary relief, including foodgrains and about 6 lakh tarpaulins. Among the blocks affected by floods were Arambagh and Khanakhul in Hooghly; Udaynarayanpur and Amta in Howrah; Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman; Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur; and Nanoor in Birbhum. Mr. Dwivedi said this was the second flood that the region had seen this year. The people of the region had faced a similar flood situation in July and the first week of August 2021, but it was more grim this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-floods-two-dead-22-lakh-hit/article36786918.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI seeks sanction to prosecute ex-Telecom Minister in assets case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought sanction to prosecute former Telecom Minister A. Raja in an alleged disproportionate assets case registered in 2015, said an agency official. “The request was sent in February,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-seeks-sanction-to-prosecute-ex-telecom-minister-in-assets-case/article36786969.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five missing as avalanche hits summit||A search and rescue effort has been launched for five Navy personnel who went missing after an expedition team was hit by an avalanche while attempting to summit Mount Trishul in Uttarakhand. The 20-member team was flagged off from Mumbai on September 3 last to summit Mount Trishul. “Ten climbers started their approach on the final leg to the summit this morning, but were caught in an avalanche short of the summit,” the Navy said a statement. While five were safe, search and rescue of the remaining persons was on, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-missing-as-avalanche-hits-summit/article36786904.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Respond to plea on course: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the government on a plea challenging a notification for NEET-Super Specialities 2021 in August allowing postgraduates from a broad spectrum of medical disciplines to apply for Doctorate of Medicine (Medical Genetics) and Doctorate of National Board in Medical Genetics courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-plea-on-course-sc/article36786909.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Funds sought to clear weeds on urban stretches of the Cooum||The urban stretch of the Cooum river may be rid of the overgrown vegetation in several portions as the Water Resources Department has sought funds to carry out the task. While the department has started desilting the channels in and around the city ahead of northeast monsoon, both the Cooum and Adyar rivers have been left out of the drive. As part of the efforts to ensure free flow of floodwater during the monsoon, the department has planned to remove thick vegetation and desilt both the waterways in the city limits. The Cooum’s width varies from 70 metres to 250 metres in the city limits. The river bed is filled with seemai karuvelam trees ( prosopis juliflora ) and water hyacinth in several portions, including near Arumbakkam. Such major desilting operation was last carried out in 2017-18. Officials said Rs. 2.6 crore had been sought from the State government to weed out the growth of invasive species in the river bed as part of yearly maintenance. Such efforts were needed regularly due to sewage pollution in the river and prevent water stagnation. Garbage continues to be dumped along the river on various stretches, including Ethiraj Salai and Pudupet area, which would be cleared during the desilting exercise. However, residents of various areas, including Nerkundram, want the department to take action against dumping of sewage and slurry from construction sites into the river. Similarly, portions of the Adyar in the urban limits would be cleared of vegetation till the estuary. Meanwhile, the department is coordinating with the Greater Chennai Corporation to remove nearly 2,000 encroachments along the Cooum in Aminjikarai and Arumbakkam. Officials said the enumeration of encroachments in localities such as Bharathipuram, Gajalakshmi Colony in Aminjikarai and Radhakrishnan Nagar in Arumbakkam was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-sought-to-clear-weeds-on-urban-stretches-of-the-cooum/article36787048.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 infections drop below 1,600||After 17 days, fresh COVID-19 infections on Friday dropped below 1,600 in Tamil Nadu — as many as 1,597 people tested positive, with Chennai continuing to top the table. Five districts recorded 100-plus cases — 190 people tested positive in Chennai, followed by 170 people in Coimbatore; Chengalpattu logged 111 cases, Thanjavur 107 and Erode 102. There were 80 cases in Tiruppur, while Tiruvallur and Tiruchi recorded 66 and 59 infections respectively. Namakkal saw 58 cases, while there were 56 cases in Salem. Six districts recorded under 10 cases each, with Tenkasi logging the least number of cases at three. The fresh cases took the State’s case tally to 26,65,386. Twenty-five people died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 35,603. All 25 of the deceased had co-morbidities. There was no fatality in 21 districts. Chengalpattu and Chennai recorded three deaths each, while Coimbatore reported two. Another 1,623 people, including 208 in Chennai and 186 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,12,684. Active cases fell to 17,099. Coimbatore accounts for 2,022 active cases and Chennai 1,952. As many as 1,53,829 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,71,47,671. Three more private laboratories — Dr. Remedies Labs Private Limited in Chennai, Metro Diagnostics in Coimbatore and Sri Sai Diagnostics in Perambalur — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 304 testing facilities in the State. A total of 2,79,008 people were inoculated against COVID-19 in the State on Friday, taking the coverage in government vaccination centres to 4,53,07,115. Of the 2,79,008 people, 1,75,875 were in the 18-44 age group and 77,244 were aged 45 to 59.  Another 1,623 people, including 208 in Chennai and 186 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,12,684. Active cases fell to 17,099||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-infections-drop-below-1600/article36787080.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annual conference of RCOG begins||The 34th annual conference of All India Coordination Committee (AICC) Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) 2021 began on Friday. In a message, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said globally, the Kerala model of development was hailed for breakthroughs in two areas — education and health. He said the State had brought down infant mortality rate to seven (per 1,000 live births). Mr. Vijayan said that Kerala had the best figures in maternal mortality ratio (MMR) in the country, according to the Sample Registration System. The State’s MMR was 43 per one lakh live births as against the national target of 70 per one lakh live births by 2030, he said. Women’s health was one of the major concerns for Kerala government and it ensured the best healthcare services for women. Inaugurating the three-day conference virtually, Eddie Morris, president of RCOG, said RCOG was a global college with India having the highest concentration of global members. Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the institution had come up with guidance for which the second highest users were in India. A message from Kerala Minister for Health and Women and Child Development Veena George was aired as part of the inaugural session. The conference was held on the theme of “Empowerment through education.” Kate Lancaster, chief executive of RCOG; Bhaskar Pal, All India Chair, AICC RCOG; and Uma Ram, chair, South Zone, AICC RCOG; spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-conference-of-rcog-begins/article36787053.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway’s push for green energy pays dividend||The Southern Railway’s push for green energy through commissioning of solar plants, electrification of tracks, upgrade of suburban trains with three-phase electricity, and installation of LED lights, has resulted in making it an energy-efficient organisation. The organisation has saved nearly 600 million units (MU) of power for the financial year 2020-21. This also resulted in preventing carbon footprint of 5,88,000 tonnes, which is estimated at Rs. 377 crore. According to a press release from the Southern Railway, by installing solar power at several important railway stations, including Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Chennai Central, Moore Market Complex, Katpadi, Tambaram, Guindy, Mambalam, and Chengalpattu stations, it had generated 12 MUs of power with this year’s contribution being 4 MUs. This saved the organisation Rs. 1.77 crore. As part of the 100% electrification project, the Southern Railway has electrified 370 km of its track network this year and thus reduced the contracted power load with the State electricity utilities. Along with the electrification, the introduction of 3-phase electrical multiple units (EMUs) in Chennai suburban and mainline electrical multiple units (MEMUs) in other remote areas has resulted in average energy savings of 25%. The Southern Railway, which has solar capacity of 5 mega watt (MW), plans to add 109 MW by using 288 acres of vacant land. Already, tender had been floated by REMCL for 119 acres and tender process is under way for the remaining 169 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railways-push-for-green-energy-pays-dividend/article36787059.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over a crore vaccine doses allocated for Oct., says Health Minister||The Union government has sanctioned 1,23,09,370 more doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu for October, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Friday. Since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16, the highest number of vaccine doses were administered in September, including during the three mega vaccination camps, he said, adding: “The Union government had fixed an allocation of 1,04,98,000 doses for September. Following our performance including at the three mega camps, it allocated an additional 37.68 lakh doses. So we administered 1,42,66,000 doses in September.” Recalling that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had written to the Prime Minister and the Union Health Minister, seeking 50 lakh doses of vaccines a week — two crore a month — the Minister said the government had sanctioned 1,23,09,370 doses for October, with the first lot expected by Friday evening, he told reporters after launching a month-long breast cancer screening camp at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. Fourth mega camp Mr. Subramanian said a few days ago, they had announced that a fourth mega vaccination camp would not be held this Sunday, as officials and employees of the local administration would be involved in organising grama sabhas. After officials of the district administration and Health Department expressed willingness to make arrangements for the camp, it has been decided that the fourth camp will be held on Sunday. “We have 24,98,365 vaccine doses in hand and will organise 20,000 camps on the day,” Mr. Subramanian added. He added that the aim was to achieve a first-dose coverage of 75%-80% by the end of October. “In the last mega camp, 10 lakh people received their second dose. We request all those due for their second doses to take it soon — after a 28-day gap for Covaxin and 84 days for Covishield. We have five to six lakh doses of Covaxin in hand and are distributing to all camps,” the Health Minister said. Holiday for health staff Monday will be a holiday for the health staff involved in the mega camp, he added. Taking part in an event to mark the National Voluntary Blood Donation Day, the Minister said there were 318 blood banks in the State (98 State government banks, 10 Union government blood banks and 212 private ones), 393 government blood storage centres and 155 private blood storage centres. A total of 778 blood donation camps were held through government blood banks from April to August this year, through which 1,18,363 units of blood have been collected, the Health Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-a-crore-vaccine-doses-allocated-for-oct-says-health-minister/article36787078.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crop insurance scheme may cover 25 lakh farmers||The Tamil Nadu government hopes to maintain the enrolment of 25 lakh farmers and the coverage of 42 lakh acres this year, too, under the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana), despite a late start. Though only about one lakh farmers have been brought under the scheme this time, officials of the Agriculture Department hope the enrolment drive will gather pace in the weeks to come as the farmers intensify their operations during the current ‘samba’, ‘thaladi’ and ‘pishanam’ cultivation season. Special season As far as insurance coverage is concerned, the crops raised during the ‘samba’ season fall under the special season, given the uniqueness of the situation in the State. Otherwise, for the purpose of insurance, it is either kharif or rabi season. Last year, 25.77 lakh farmers were enrolled for an area of about 42.77 lakh acres. During the 2020-21 special season, about 12.4 lakh farmers alone had enrolled themselves. The importance of the ongoing ‘samba’ season can be gauged from the fact that the season accounts for nearly two-thirds of the annual rice production. This time, there is one more reason for the authorities to ensure a very good coverage. During the kharif season this year, the coverage was hardly one-fourth of what the State had achieved last year. This was due to a variety of reasons such as the enforcement of the model code of conduct for the Assembly election and the consequent delay in the selection of insurance companies. By the time Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited and IFFCO-Tokio General Insurance Company were chosen in late August, the harvest of paddy raised during the ‘kuruvai’ season had begun. This was why paddy alone could not be covered this year, explain the officials. Enrolment period Normally, the enrolment of farmers during the special season ends on December 15. But, in the case of paddy, it gets over by the middle of November in most of the districts. Other crops that can be covered are maize, cotton and onion. As for rabi, the registration process is expected to begin in the third week of October, and will go on till February. However, there will be district-wise and crop-wise cut-off dates.  During the kharif season this year, the coverage was hardly one-fourth of what the State had achieved last year. This was due to reasons like enforcement of model code of conduct for the election   During the kharif season this year, the coverage was hardly one-fourth of what the State had achieved last year. This was due to a variety of reasons such as the enforcement of the model code of conduct for the Assembly election and the consequent delay in the selection of insurance companies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-insurance-scheme-may-cover-25-lakh-farmers/article36787084.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State poll body to ensure video recording at all booths||The Madras High Court on Friday recorded the submission of Advocate-General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram that continuous video recording would be ensured at as many polling booths as possible during the local body polls to be held in the nine newly created districts this month. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu recorded the submission made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the AIADMK, seeking elaborate security measures to ensure the purity of the electoral process. Former A-G Vijay Narayan, representing the AIADMK, said the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) had decided to install CCTV cameras at only 20% of the booths and record only critical events. He insisted that there should be 100% continuous video coverage at all booths. Stating that what could be a critical event and what could not be would be left to the subjective satisfaction of officials, he said with the technology available, it should not be a Herculean task to ensure video recording at all booths. The court recorded the A-G’s submission that observers would be appointed at the block level, instead of the present plan to appoint one IAS officer as observer for each district. Mr. Narayan had said that one officer might not be able to cover an entire district. The judges, however, rejected the plea to make public the names of micro observers after Mr. Shunmugasundaram said the officials were supposed to operate in secrecy. On yet another plea made by the AIADMK to install CCTV cameras not just outside the strong rooms, but inside them as well, the A-G agreed to ensure the same. After commending the manner in which the A-G and former A-G conducted the case, the judges hoped that the local body polls are held in the same spirit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-poll-body-to-ensure-video-recording-at-all-booths/article36787094.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-DGP allowed to take cap, badge marked as ‘evidence’ in Rajiv Gandhi case temporarily||IPS officer Prateep V. Philip, who on Thursday retired as the Director General of Police, Training, was permitted by a court to temporarily take possession of his bloodstained cap and name badge, marked as material objects in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Mr. Prateep, as Assistant SP, had miraculously survived the human bomb blast on the fateful night in Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991. In the impact of the blast, he had sustained injuries, and his cap and name badge had fallen off. They were collected by the Special Investigation Team, as part of evidence, from the scene of crime. They remained in the custody of the trial court since then. A few days ahead of his retirement, a petition was filed on behalf of Mr. Prateep before the First Additional Sessions Court, seeking to allow him to take possession of the cap and name badge. The trial court concluded the trial in the assassination case and pronounced judgment on January 28, 1998. The convicted persons and the respondent in the case have exhausted all their appeals and all the material evidence and objects available with the Special Investigation Team are no longer required to be preserved, the petition said. ‘Sentimental value’ Sanjay Pinto, counsel for Mr. Prateep, said the petitioner, who faced a near death experience in the line of duty, wished to take back his blood-stained cap and name badge, which were his personal belongings with immense sentimental value, a reminder of the call of duty during his formative years in the service of the nation, and literally symbolise his blood, sweat and tears over 34 years of his professional career. First Additional Sessions Judge T. Chandrasekaran on September 28 allowed the petition of Mr. Prateep and ordered the return of his cap and name badge for his interim custody on execution of own bond for Rs. 1 lakh. The court said they should be handed over to the court on or before October 28 after the purpose is served. Mr. Prateep is a 1987-batch officer and a recipient of the Prime Minister’s Medal for Meritorious Service in 2003 and the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service in 2012. He is the founder of the Friends of Police concept in India, which won him the coveted Queen’s Award in 2002. In his 34-year career, he has held several sensitive posts. He was given a farewell at the Rajarathinam stadium by officers and personnel led by DGP C. Sylendra Babu, and a ceremonial parade too was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-dgp-allowed-to-take-cap-badge-marked-as-evidence-in-rajiv-gandhi-case-temporarily/article36787089.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP to stage protest on October 7||Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai on Friday said his party would hold protests in front of important temples to condemn the State government’s decision to keep all places of worship, including temples, closed from Fridays to Sundays due to COVID-19 regulations. The party wants temples to be opened on all days. Former national secretary of the BJP H. Raja will be coordinating the protests, he said. The party will hold the protests on October 7 at 11 a.m. Mr. Annamalai urged the people to join the protests and extend their support as the Navaratri is approaching and people should be able to visit temples every day. He accused the DMK government of functioning on “their philosophy of atheism”, which, he claimed, was evident from the banning of Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations and the proposal to melt the “sacred gold” offered by devotees to temples. He said lakhs of small traders who were dependent on temples to sell offerings to the deities were severely hit due to the closure of temples for three days each week. Mr. Annamalai said if the government did no heed to the demand for reopening temples on all days, the BJP will convert the issue into a people’s movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-protest-in-front-of-temples/article36787076.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Remember Anna’s words, says Stalin||Felicitating candidates who secured various ranks in the civil services examination 2020, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday advised them to remember the words of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai when faced with challenges at work. “Go to the people, live among them, learn from them, love them, serve them, plan with them, start with what they know, build with what they have,” Mr. Stalin quoted Annadurai as having said. Every civil servant who has cleared the exam must keep these words in their heart, Mr. Stalin said, adding: “Remember these words whenever you face a challenge at work.” A felicitation of those from Tamil Nadu who succeeded in the exams was organised at the Anna Institute of Management. Be it in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) or in any other service, it is important for officers to remember that they are working for the welfare of the people, Mr. Stalin said. “You should not misuse government facilities,” he said. Civil servants should be honest and clean and have a sense of duty to the people, Mr. Stalin said. “Succeeding in the civil services examination is only a passport, and not a travelling ticket. You are going to face situations,” he said. Candidates’ success in the civil services exams is a matter of pride not just to their families, but also to the State, he said. “I hope when you sit in high government positions, you will ensure that the benefits due to Tamil Nadu reach it,” he said. Minister for Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remember-annas-words-says-stalin/article36787087.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco cannot impose transformer cost on consumers: ombudsman||S. Devarajan, Tamil Nadu’s electricity ombudsman, has ruled that the collection of costs towards the installation of distribution transformers along with associated equipment, is in violation of regulations and directives of the State power regulator and directed Tangedco to refund the excess estimate charges collected from five Chennai-based real estate developers. He also instructed Tangedco to prepare the estimate in line with regulations of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Distribution Code and revise the estimate for all such similar cases and refund the excess charges collected from consumers. In separate petitions, Kamalalaya Hi Soft Limited, Navin Housing and Properties Pvt. Ltd, Akshaya Pvt. Ltd., Casa Grand Pvt. Ltd, High Value Developers had sought refunds for the excess charges, including the equipment costs paid under protest. Transformers/equipment/cables/line costs are also included in the estimate charges contrary to regulations. The demand was without any approval from the State power regulator, they said. The ombudsman noted that regulation 29(11)(c) of the code, which came into effect from January 27, 2021 clearly states that the cost of installation works from the distribution transformer to the consumer’s meter, including portion of any HT line within the consumer’s premises, shall alone be collected from the consumer. Collection of costs towards installation of distribution transformers with associated equipment/ accessories is in violation of the regulations and directions issued by Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), he said. A compliance report shall be submitted within 60 days, the ombudsman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-cannot-impose-transformer-cost-on-consumers-ombudsman/article36787077.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two special police officers posted to Tambaram, Avadi||Additional Director-Generals of Police M.Ravi and Sandeep Rai Rathore have been posted as special officers for the formation of police commissionerates in Tambaram and Avadi. During the demand for grants speech in Assembly for police department, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced the creation of two additional police commissionerates, with Avadi and Tambaram as headquarters. The Chennai City Police Commissionerate was bifurcated during the DMK regime in 2008 and S.R. Jangid was appointed Commissioner of the new commissionerate. When the AIADMK returned to power in 2011, the suburban commissionerate was merged again with Chennai city police. Meanwhile, the Home Department issued an order stating that Abin Dinesh Modak, Inspector-General of Police, Economic Offences wing, will hold full additional charge of the post of Additional Director-General of Police, Economic Offences wing, until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-special-police-officers-posted-to-tambaram-avadi/article36787035.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Car catches fire near Kotturpuram||A car caught fire during peak hour evening traffic near Kottupuram on Friday. No one was injured, police sources said. Around 8 p.m. on Sardar Patel Road, smoke started emanating from the bonnet of the car which was proceeding from Guindy to Madhya Kailash. The car owner stopped the vehicle and immediately got out. Passers-by came to his help and the police were alerted. Two fire tenders rushed to the spot to put out the blaze. The incident led to traffic piling up for a while and it took the police about an hour to clear the congestion in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-catches-fire-near-kotturpuram/article36787038.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man wanted in 70 cases arrested||The city police have arrested a 54-year-old man on charges of stealing money from a sweet shop in Kolathur. The police said M. Kalidas, 54, a native of Thiruparakundram in Madurai, stole Rs. 22,000 from a sweet shop in Kolathur police station limits. Based on a complaint from the shopkeeper, the police arrested Kalidas from a hideout n Sivaganga. The police said he was wanted in 70 cases across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-wanted-in-70-cases-arrested/article36787040.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on oral cancer to be held tomorrow||A webinar on “Understanding oral cancer”, organised by Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons of India, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry branch, and MedPiper Technologies will be held at 11 a.m. on October 3. Pradeep Jeevadhas, Oral Maxillofacial and Oncology surgeon, Holy Cross Hospital, Nagercoil, and Senthil Murugan, professor of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Saveetha Dental College and Hospital, will speak. Jimson S, head, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Tagore Dental College and Hospital, Chennai, will be the moderator. To register, visit www.journomed.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-oral-cancer-to-be-held-tomorrow/article36787046.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KMC’s Breast Clinic opens screening camp||With October being observed as the Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the Breast Clinic of the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital has launched a month-long screening camp. Women aged above 40 can get screened and undergo mammogram during the camp. The clinic is equipped with 3D digital mammogram, contrast and tomosynthesis, ultrasound and elastography and breast MRI with special breast coil. The facility is managed by women doctors and a team of women radiographers. On Friday, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian launched the month-long screening camp. “Mammogram is very important for women aged above 40 for early detection of breast cancer. For ‘Pink October’, the Breast Clinic has launched the screening camp. If necessary, a contrast study can be done. Tomosynthesis can help in picking up very minute nodules in the breast. Those with a family history of cancer or those with risk factors should take up regular self-examination of the breasts and come for check-up,” R. Shanthi Malar, dean of KMC, said. If necessary, in case of abnormal findings, a biopsy would be done and sample sent for study. The screening would be done free of cost for those covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme while it would be done for others at a cost of Rs. 1,000. Women can walk in from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on all days till October 31. For details and registration, interested persons may call 7305877472.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmcs-breast-clinic-opens-month-long-screening-camp/article36787052.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan meets Chief Minister over ‘police excesses’ at Morur||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at Anna Arivalayam here on Friday over the alleged police excesses at Morur in Salem district against his party workers after they tried to erect the party flag. CM’s promise Speaking to reporters later, he said he informed the Chief Minister of the situation at Morur. “Not all but some” police officers were biased against the party. “Casteist forces as well as the police indulged in violence... The VCK protested against the incident in Chennai, Salem and Madurai. Since the Chief Minister wanted to meet [us], we postponed the protest at Salem and Madurai. He promised us that he would look into the matter.” Mr. Thirumavalavan said he did not expect these long-pending issues to be resolved immediately, but the VCK wanted to bring the problem to the Chief Minister’s attention. “I haven’t insisted that he take action.” He said, “In Morur, police officers claimed that the PMK or non-Dalits had opposed it [the installation of the VCK flag pole at the bus stand]. It isn’t true. In fact, the bus stand and the panchayat union office have been built on the land given by a Dalit panchayat president in the 1940s. DMK, DMDK, PMK and Vanniyar Sangam flags and actor Vijay’s fan club board have been installed there. When the police said they were going to remove all the flags soon, VCK workers replied that the VCK flag could then be removed along with the others. That’s how the issue snowballed.” Mr. Thirumavalavan said the police, irrespective of the party in power, opposed the installation of party flag poles at many places. “Recently, we have been told that we need the permission of revenue officials. When we seek their consent, they say that only the police will handle these issues. So the revenue officials and the police pass the buck to prevent us from raising our party flag. As the police act in this manner, the casteist forces also act against our workers. The police didn’t prevent others from congregating at that place. We had explained all this to the Chief Minister,” he said. He said some police officers refused such requests on the assumption that there would be a problem if the VCK installed its flag poles. “They have the power to maintain law and order but they take decisions with a bias against certain communities and they like certain parties. These are the challenges we face... These issues have existed for long,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirumavalavan-meets-stalin-over-police-excesses-in-morur/article36787075.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Geriatrician V.S. Natarajan gets Vayoshreshtha Samman||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu presented the Vayoshreshtha Samman National Award to senior geriatrician V.S. Natarajan. On October 1, World Elders Day every year, the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment presents this award to those who have remarkably served the elderly fraternity and this year, the awards were given to 13 individuals and private organisations, according to a press release. The award presented to Dr. Natarajan for the elders welfare initiatives that were provided through the Dr. V.S. Natarajan Geriatric Foundation, instituted four years ago. From conducting lectures on “preventive geriatrics” to medical camps throughout the State, the Foundation did quite a lot of services. Also, a “Geriatric Immunisation Centre” to prevent deaths owing to pneumonia was instituted. “The Government of Tamil Nadu accepted the Foundation’s appeal to administer free vaccination to elders residing in government-run old age homes and sanctioned a sum to vaccinate around 1,853 elders. The Foundation obtained a GO from Government of Tamil Nadu and facilitated schools across Tamil Nadu to conduct the “let us respect elders” pledge on June 15 for the past 3 years,” the release said. Delhi Tamil Sangam too felicitated Dr. Natarajan on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/geriatrician-vs-natarajan-gets-vayoshreshtha-samman/article36787061.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||700 kg of gutkha seized||A team of officials of the Food Safety Department raided a transport company office premises in Maddady on Friday and seized about 700 kg of gutkha. Led by P. Satheesh Kumar, Designated Officer, Food Safety Department, the team found the banned products in the godown. “We have seized the products and issued a notice to the company for possession of the banned products,” Dr. Kumar said. An autorickshaw in which the banned products were loaded was seized by the officials. He said the police would investigate the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/700-kg-of-gutkha-seized/article36787042.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge miffed at holding up of traffic||Justice N. Anand Venkatesh of the Madras High Court on Friday expressed his strong displeasure over the police holding up road traffic for long due to the 93rd birth anniversary celebrations of actor Sivaji Ganesan at his memorial in Chennai. After reaching the court, the judge asked the Home Secretary to appear through video call and said that he was late because of the traffic jam. Official’s assurance The Home Secretary apologised and assured the judge that it would not happen again. Accepting his apology, the judge said he expected the police to keep their promise and not cause hindrance to public servants. The judge lives in his own flat in Besant Nagar and drives to the High Court every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judge-miffed-at-holding-up-of-traffic/article36787055.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin greets President on his birthday||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday extended birthday greetings to President Ram Nath Kovind. “Heartiest birthday greetings to the honourable President of India,” he tweeted. “Wish you lead a long life with good health. The love and warmth you showed during the centenary celebrations of the Tamil Nadu legislature and the unveiling of our leader Kalaignar’ s portrait will stay in my heart forever,” Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Stalin paid floral tributes to the portrait of late thespian Sivaji Ganesan on the latter’s 93rd birth anniversary at the manimandapam constructed in honour of the legendary actor in Adyar. Ministers, Parliamentarians, legislators, friends and family of the actor were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-greets-president-on-his-birthday/article36787085.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former CM urges Stalin to put down criminals||The AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Friday reminded Chief Minister M.K. Stalin that it was the foremost duty of the latter, as one holding the portfolio of Home, to prevent incidence of crime, put down criminals and ensure safety of the public. In a statement, he referred to a series of incidents concerning law and order over the last five months and the events had not only got “people of the State in deep panic but also made them agitated.” Referring to reports in sections of the media that it was on the instructions of Governor R. N. Ravi that 12,000 persons with criminal background were arrested, Mr Palaniswami contended that there was no information about 8,000 persons. As many as 2,000 persons had been remanded in custody, while 1,750 had been released after getting undertakings from them. Nurse agitation issue In another statement, the AIADMK coordinator, O Panneerselvam, wanted the Chief Minister to get the issue of agitating nurses resolved by inviting them for talks and addressing grievances of the nurses regarding job security and regularisation. During the day, he visited Chengalpattu district to address the party workers, engaged in the work for polls to rural local bodies. In a series of tweets, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, criticised the Centre for giving nod to the establishment of a Spent Fuel Storage facility on the site of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project. He urged the Centre to take back the permission.  Events in the last five months have not only got people of the State in deep panic but made them agitated too Edappadi K. Palaniswami Former Chief Minister   the last five months and the events had not only got “people of the State in deep panic but also made them agitated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-urges-stalin-to-put-down-criminals/article36787072.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CII invites entries for CFO Excellence Awards||The Confederation of India Industry, Southern Region, on Friday launched the first edition of its CFO Excellence Awards 2021. The award has been instituted for identifying and acknowledging CFOs who have demonstrated outstanding capabilities and exemplary achievements in the finance function amid the pandemic, according to a release. Nominations are invited from CFOs across the country for 18 categories through the website http://ciicfoawards.com/. The last date to apply is November 15. The steering committee for the awards instituted in collaboration with the technical partner, Protiviti Member Firm for India, has developed an assessment methodology to analyse and evaluate the achievements of the CFOs from across small, mid-size and large firms across India, the CII said. The steering committee is chaired by Gopal Mahadevan, chief financial officer, Ashok Leyland. It includes B. Ganesh Shenoy, CFO, MTR Foods Pvt Ltd; M.P. Vijay Kumar, CFO, Sify Technologies; Milind Kulkarni, CFO, Tech Mahindra; and Sachin Tayal, MD, Protiviti Member Firm for India. The jury, comprising eminent and senior members, would assess the nominations to adjudge the winners across all categories, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-invites-entries-for-cfo-excellence-awards/article36787043.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter caught with drugs||A history-sheeter with huge quantity of psychotropic drugs and ganja was arrested on Thursday in New Washermenpet police station limits. The police said the accused tried to flee when he was intercepted by a special team near Vaidyanathan bridge, Tondiarpet. He was caught after a chase and on searching him, the police found the contraband with him. The accused was identified as Sathish alias ‘Manga’ Sathish, 28, of Tondiarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-caught-with-ganja/article36787041.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||17 assessees owe Rs. 42.30 crore to Coimbatore Corpn. in tax||After delaying its response to an RTI query, the Coimbatore Corporation has finally revealed that 17 property tax assessees owed Rs. 42.30 crore and three assessees Rs. 4.18 crore in vacant land tax. In its reply to RTI petitioner and activist S.P. Thiyagarajan, the Corporation had said of the 17 assessments, in six the Corporation could not move forward because of litigation pending before either the tax appellate committee or court. In the assessment related to property tax on the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Academy, the Corporation had decided to give exemption and forego Rs. 2.24 crore. In another case, the ruling was in favour of the petitioner, meaning that Corporation had to exempt the building from tax and forego Rs. 1.48 crore. In four cases where tax amounted to Rs. 7.55 crore, the ruling was in its favour, the Corporation had said in its reply to the petitioner. The Corporation had also said that the defaulters included government establishments as well – Coimbatore Medical College Hospital that owed Rs. 2.93 crore, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital that owed Rs. 3.53 crore and TIDEL Park, Coimbatore Ltd. that owed Rs. 4.92 crore. The Corporation furnished the details to Mr. Thiyagarajan, who had sought information on assessees who owed tax more than Rs. 1 crore and since 2011. He had also sought details of defaulters of vacant land tax. In reply to the vacant land tax query, the Corporation had identified three assessments, said one case for Rs. 1.58 crore was ruled in its favour, another case for tax worth Rs. 1.54 crore was ruled in the petitioner’s favour and another case for Rs. 1.05 crore was pending. The Corporation furnished the information to the petitioner a few days ago after he had moved an appeal to the Deputy Commissioner. He was forced to move the appeal as the then Assistant Commissioner, Revenue, failed to reply to his petition of June 28, 2021, he added.  The civic body furnished the details to an RTI activist who sought information on assessees who owed tax more than Rs. 1 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-assessees-owe-rs-4230-crore-to-coimbatore-corpn-in-tax/article36787106.ece
02 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hospital introduces chatbot for breast cancer awareness||To raise awareness on breast cancer, Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Oncology and Research (SRIOR) launched a chatbot here on Friday. A press release said that the ‘Pink Bot’ was launched at Sri Ramakrishna Multispecialty Hospital to mark the Breast Cancer Awareness Month of October. Available in English and Tamil, the chatbot is integrated with WhatsApp messaging application and users can start interacting by sending a ‘Hi’ message on WhatsApp number 97397 38558. The ‘Pink Bot’ will provide information ranging from basic queries on breast cancer to various treatment options, the release said. Apart from text messages, the chatbot will also provide an option to the users to play the messages in audio format. The initiative was launched by Director and Chief Medical Oncologist of SRIOR P. Guhan, Chief Operating Officer of Sri Ramakrishna Multispecialty Hospital Swathy Rohit and Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust D. Lakshminarayanaswamy. Apart from this, the hospital will also have month-long mammogram for women older than 40 years with symptoms of breast cancer on all working days from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. free of cost, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-introduces-chatbot-for-breast-cancer-awareness/article36787111.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Camps for regularisation of unapproved plots||To provide an opportunity to owners of plots in unapproved layouts to regularise their lands, the Coimbatore Corporation will conduct a camp on October 11. A release from the civic body said those in possession of unapproved sub-divided sites or plots registered after January 1, 1980 and before October 20, 2016 could make use of the camp that it would hold from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Owners of plots in unapproved layouts where at least one plot owner had obtained the SPF could also make use of the opportunity. While asking the plot owners to attend the camp that would be held in all five zonal offices, the Corporation said at the time of submitting application for regularisation, plot owners should present all relevant documents, pay regularisation fee and development charges.  The release further said that SPF was the number that the Coimbatore Local Planning Authority provided at the time of plot owners applying for regularisation on its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camps-for-regularisation-of-unapproved-plots/article36787108.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Micro units need financial support’||The Central and State governments should come out with schemes to extend financial support to micro units that do not have loan accounts with banks, said S. Surulivel, newly-elected vice-president of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA). Representatives of the association plan to meet officials in the Central and State governments on this issue, he said. The Union government had declared extension of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. However, even now the scheme did not benefit those who did not have loan accounts with banks. The scheme should be extended to all MSMEs, he said. Another area of concern to the MSMEs was the frequent revision of raw material prices. Though job working units were getting orders, the hike in raw material prices was causing uncertainties. “How can we quote prices to take up job work as we are unsure of the raw material prices? A couple of days ago, the price of steel was increased by Rs. 3 and it is said that there will be another hike by Rs. 5 shortly. For MSMEs that take up job orders with public sector undertakings, the agreement is on an annual basis. We cannot do job work for a loss. We are unable to quote prices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-need-financial-support/article36787099.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation organises events to mark 75th I-Day||To commemorate the 75th year of Independence the Coimbatore Corporation has organised various events, including a cyclathon till October 3. The civic body said in a release the events began on Friday with a road safety awareness programme by school and college students. Seventy-five saplings -- to mark the 75th year of Independence -- would be planted in Gurusamy Layout between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. on October 2. Later, between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m., a programme to explain the functions of the Integrated Command and Control Centre to the public would be held at the R.S. Puram Kalaiarangam. On October 3, a ‘cyclathon’ would be held between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. Members of the public could participate with their bicycles. Bicycle repair clinics, a programme to identify 75 young champions, and bicycle donation have also been organised. To participate in the cyclathon, people could call on 80125-89892. Further details are available at www.coimbatoresmartcity.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-organises-events-to-mark-75th-i-day/article36787098.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Suez India opens customer service centre||Suez India Pvt. Ltd. has opened a customer service centre to help the old city residents – those from 60 wards – get assistance related to drinking water supply. Assistant Executive Engineer R. Ramasamy, Drinking Water Project Management Advisory Board Chairman P. Gopalakrishnan and Sasikala, Chairman of Chandra Yuva Foundation, an NGO engaged in awareness creation on civic issues, inaugurated the centre, which would function out of the Coimbatore Corporation tax collection centre on Mettupalayam Road, near T.V. Samy Road junction. A communique from the Suez India Pvt. Ltd. said that the centre would provide all services related to drinking water supply – right from applying for a new connection to attending complaints on leak, contamination, etc., for now and soon start collecting tax on the Corporation’s behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suez-india-opens-customer-service-centre/article36787107.ece
02 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 170 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported 170 new cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 2,42,664. The Health Department reported two more deaths, which took the district’s toll to 2,342. The district had 2,022 active cases and 186 patients were reported to have recovered on the day. Tiruppur district reported 80 fresh cases on Friday and the overall tally rose to 93,107. The district had 873 active cases and 98 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on the day. Thirty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 32,774. A total of 354 persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-170-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article36787115.ece
02 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for robbery||The Pollachi East police on Thursday arrested five persons on charges of robbing a man of Rs. 1.04 lakh. A statement from the police said that Raja and four of his aides stole the money from Sathishkumar, who was running a liquor shop. The gang also took away his gold jewellery and phone before absconding from the spot. The police formed special teams and found that the gang was hiding in the Nilgiris district and recovered Rs. 88,200, gold chain and a phone along with sharp weapons. The accused were remanded in judicial custody, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-robbery/article36787104.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Aliyar reservoir||The district administration has asked people living along the banks of River Aliyar to stay cautious owing to the release of water from the Aliyar reservoir. Revenue Department sources in Pollachi told The Hindu the caution was sounded also because the water level in the reservoir was only half a foot below the full reservoir level of 120 feet, and rain was predicted in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-aliyar-reservoir/article36787109.ece
02 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special trains announced||The Salem Division of Southern Railway has announced fully reserved special trains between Coimbatore and Mannargudi from October 7. A press release said that Train No. 06616 Coimbatore – Mannargudi Daily Special Train will leave Coimbatore at 12.30 a.m. every day from October 7 and will reach Mannargudi at 7.40 a.m. the same day. Similarly, Train No.06615 Mannargudi – Coimbatore Daily Special Train will leave Mannargudi at 8.25 p.m. every day from October 7 to reach Coimbatore at 4.45 a.m. the next day. The stoppages will be at Tiruppur, Erode, Karur, Tiruchirappalli, Budalur, Thanjavur and Nidamangalam Junctions.    Principal District and Sessions Judge, Tiruppur, Swarnam J. Natarajan conducted a review meeting on Friday regarding the 45-day nationwide campaign to be organised by the National Legal Services Authority. A release said that the campaign would be organised by District Legal Services Authority, District Administration and Lawyers Association from October 2 to November 14 across Tiruppur district and the campaign would focus on raising awareness on crimes against women, children and drugs. District Collector S. Vineeth and Judge, Family Court, Tiruppur V.P. Sugandhi participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-announced/article36787105.ece
02 October 2021||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years jail in cheating case||A special court on Friday awarded 10 years of imprisonment to a man who was involved in a country chicken farm that cheated 16 depositors to the tune of over Rs. 40 lakh. Sources said that M. Mahesh (37) and his elder brother Prakash were running Sri Charu Farms near Perundurai in Erode district in 2012. The firm cheated 16 depositors to the tune of Rs. 40.56 lakh. The two were booked under Sections 120 B (Punishment for criminal conspiracy), 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) along with sections of Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act. Judge A.S. Ravi of the Special Court for TNPID Act awarded 10 years of simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 12 lakhs on Mahesh. In April, the court had sentenced his elder brother Prakash to 10 years simple imprisonment and levied Rs. 21 lakhs as fine. Special Public Prosecutor S. Manickaraj appeared on behalf of the State government for both the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-10-years-jail-in-cheating-case/article36787103.ece
02 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs 38 cases||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday. As many as 38 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the overall tally in the district to 63,437. The district saw 62,196 recoveries and 383 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 18 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,474. Kallakurichi district reported 19 positive cases on Friday, taking the district’s overall tally to 30,969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-nil-deaths-38-cases/article36787403.ece
02 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Grievance redressal camp for police held||A grievance redress camp for police personnel was held here on Friday. Superintendent of Police C. Kalaiselvan heard the grievances of personnel under ‘Ungal Thuraiyil Mudhalvar’ scheme at the District Police office. As many as 260 personnel took part in the camp and conveyed their grievances. Mr. Kalaiselvan assured them that necessary action would be taken on the petitions. Senior police officials were present at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-redressal-camp-for-police-held/article36787192.ece
02 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||e-beat system introduced in Dindigul||Dindigul District Police have introduced e-beat system in Dindigul Town sub-division and Dindigul Rural sub-division that would help the police officials to monitor the duty of beat constables from the District Police Office. Under the new-system launched by Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, on Thursday, a total of 441 spots that needs to be mandatorily visited by the beat constables have been brought under the digital supervision. “Instead of signing the patta books kept at important locations as a proof of visit by the beat constables, the constables now can scan the QR code pasted at different locations and electronically mark their visit,” the Superintendent of Police said. The GPS-based software will give the exact location of the constable at the time of scanning the QR Code that would prevent any proxy marking. A total of 312 spots under the Dindigul rural range and 129 spots under Dindigul town range have been brought under the e-beat system. The rest of the 1,508 spots will be soon brought under the new system. The officials need not visit the beat spots to verify whether the beat constables have visited them at the prescribed time. They can access the details with the exact time of visit by logging into the computers or through their mobile phones. “This will ensure 100% compliance of the beat system duty,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-beat-system-introduced-in-dindigul/article36787172.ece
02 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family electrocuted||A family of three was electrocuted at Chettiyapatti under Ambathurai police station limits on Friday. The deceased were Tirupathi, 45, and his sons, Vijay Ganapathi, 17, and Santhosh Kumar, 15. “The man tried to take a towel hanging outside the house when he was electrocuted,” said Sub-Inspector of Police S. Murugan. One end of the clothesline was tied close to the electricity meter. Following the overnight rain, power passed through the clothesline to the farmhand and he was electrocuted. His two sons rushed to his help, but were also electrocuted. A neighbour who tried to hit the hand of Tirupathi with a stick suffered partial shock. Tirupathi’s wife Vasantha who had gone out for work was the only survivor in the family. The death of the three persons of the same family, including the sons studying in Classes 12 and 9, shocked the villagers. The bodies were handed over to the family after post-mortem. Ambathurai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-a-family-electrocuted/article36787071.ece
02 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||10th phase of excavation ends at Kodumanal||The 10th session of archaeological excavation at Kodumanal ended on Thursday as the licence period for the latest phase was till September 30. Official sources said that they were completely winding up excavation activities in the site. The Kodumanal excavation was started in 1985 and archaeological excavation had been carried out in the site in 10 phases. According to officials, the licence for excavation was taken for a period of one year and it was due by September 30. Official sources said that the land would be returned to its owners. However, decision on retaining it as an open site had to be taken by the State government. J. Ranjith, Project Director said that over two acres of land had been excavated as part of the project and in the 10th phase alone, over 2,000 artefacts were excavated. During the entire study, over 9,000 artefacts were excavated from the site. Mr. Ranjith said that they had engaged about 10 student scholars to complete the photo-documentation, writing, and drawing works. The excavations at Kodumanal brought to light aspects about megalithic and early historic cultural periods. Mentioned as Kodumanam in Sangam literature, the village was an industrial and trade centre about 2,300 years ago and they made iron, steel, bangles out of shells and exquisite beads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10th-phase-of-excavation-ends-at-kodumanal/article36787183.ece
02 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for hoarding 1,920 liquor bottles||The Kallakurichi police arrested two persons and seized 1,920 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in a drive in the district on Thursday. Following a tip-off, a team conducted a raid at Kariappa Nagar in Emapper and arrested Saravanan and Velu for hoarding liquor bottles. Investigations by the police revealed that the duo had procured the bottles in bulk from a Tasmac outlet in Kachirapalayam for selling them at premium prices during ‘dry days’ in view of the upcoming rural local bodies election on October 6 and 9. Sources said the Tasmac management had suspended the shop supervisor M. Periyasamy and salesmen Munusamy and Balu for resorting to bulk sales of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-hoarding-1920-liquor-bottles-in-kallakurichi/article36787402.ece
02 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer reviews monsoon preparedness||District Monitoring Officer Beela Rajesh reviewed the preparedness for monsoon and assessed disaster response measures in the district on Friday. Ms. Rajesh advised officials to keep equipment required for disaster response in a ready state and gather contact details of persons with required equipment like JCB and tree cutters. The district had identified 35 places as vulnerable to monsoon rain and 47 relief centres had been readied here. Ms. Rajesh said in a release that 2,994 persons in the district had undergone disaster response training and 90% mass cleaning works had been completed in the district. Ms. Rajesh said the Forest Department was taking measures to prevent wildlife getting affected due to monsoon and the Veterinary Department was advised to ready relief camps. She later visited the district control room and the Devasamuthiram panchayat union primary school where relief camp had been planned. Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article36787189.ece
02 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers told to get vaccinated||Pon Kumar, Chairman of Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board held a meeting with labour associations here and advised them that all construction workers must get vaccinated against COVID-19 disease. Mr. Kumar said that the Chief Minister had announced houses for construction workers and works were progressing in this regard. Necessary action would be taken by the board on petitions received from workers within a month. He added that workers could get easily registered under the board online using their Aadhaar and ration cards. He added that 1.86 lakh persons had registered under the board in the district and advised them all to get vaccinated. He added that special vaccination camps would be organised from October 4 in the district for construction workers. Mr. Kumar also distributed welfare assistance to 153 beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-told-to-get-vaccinated/article36787191.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File report on probe into illegal child adoption case, HC tells State||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the State to file a status report on the progress made in the investigation into the illegal child adoption case involving the Idhayam Trust in Madurai. Justice B. Pugalendhi sought a report on the stage of the investigation and the role played by Madarsha, the second accused in the case. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Madarsha, an employee of the Trust. The court had dismissed his earlier bail petition. During the course of the hearing, the State submitted that the petitioner was involved in the case and had prepared fake documents and certificates. However, the petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him. Earlier, the court had denied bail to the main accused in the case G.R. Sivakumar, Director of Idhayam Trust. The accused had allegedly sold infants to childless couples. The couples were made to believe that the adoption was done legally. A woman who was unable to maintain her children had handed them over to the home run by the trust. Under these circumstances, Sivakumar is said to have told the woman that one of her children was affected by COVID-19. He told her that he would take the infant to the hospital for treatment. Later, he informed her that the child had died and the final rites were performed as per COVID-19 protocol. The woman suspected the activities of Sivakumar and lodged a complaint. It was brought to light that he had sold the infant to a childless couple. Also, he had sold another infant to another childless couple. He had allegedly told them that the legal formalities would be completed later. The court has granted bail to the two childless couples and three other accused in the case, that included an employee, a social worker and a vegetable merchant. The court then adjourned the hearing in the bail petition filed by Madarsha to October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-report-on-probe-into-illegal-child-adoption-case-high-court/article36787178.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Thrombolysis therapy remains underutilised in non-urban areas’||Changing lifestyle has led to a daunting increase in the incidence and prevalence of stroke among population. The inequality in healthcare facilities available in rural, semi-urban and urban areas, social stigma, lack of awareness and financial constraints often result in higher morbidity and mortality due to stroke among patients living in the interior belts of the country. For efficacy report, Apollo Reach Hospital in Karaikudi did thrombolysis therapy for 112 patients of acute ischaemic stroke between 2012 and 2021. Outlining the success of the treatment modality made available under a secondary healthcare set-up in a semi-urban town in Karaikudi, general medicine consultant, Dr. Thirupathy Sankaralingam said the clinical outcome has confirmed and reiterated the importance and safety of thrombolysis therapy which, unfortunately, remains underutilised in non-urban areas. In Thrombolytic therapy, clot busting drug called lytics are administered to dissolve blood clots that suddenly block the major arteries or veins in an individual and pose potentially serious complications. It is used in treating myocardial infarction, stroke and venous thrombo-embolism. According to Dr.Thirupathy, in non-urban areas, less than three per cent of stroke patients are treated with this therapy compared to almost 45 per cent in urban areas. “Non-availability of neurology specialists in the interiors and fear of bleeding and any other complication, have kept the therapy out of reach for the rural and semi-urban patients,” he said. Based on clinical experience, he said, only one patient out of 112 treated had bleeding issues with the risk of mortality rate less than one per cent. All other patients — oldest was 85 years and youngest 29 — have recovered their neurologic skills, muscle strength, anti-gravity functions, speech ability and are able to do their activities of daily life independently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thrombolysis-therapy-for-stroke-patients-stressed/article36787179.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Interim anticipatory bail to main accused in illegal sand quarrying case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted interim anticipatory bail to Manuvel George, the main accused in the Tirunelveli illegal sand quarrying case. The case is being investigated by the CB-CID. Justice B. Pugalendhi took into account the fact that the accused was willing to cooperate in the investigation and granted him interim anticipatory bail till October 8. The judge directed him to appear before the CB-CID from October 2 with all the relevant documents and materials. The court had dismissed his earlier anticipatory bail petition. The authorities concerned had imposed a penalty of Rs. 9.5 crore on him for the offence of illegal sand quarrying. The court took a serious view of the illegal sand quarrying. Earlier, a Division Bench of the High Court had transferred the investigation into the case to the CB-CID taking note of the fact that government officials from various departments were involved and facilitated the illegal sand quarrying. It is said that Manuvel George was granted licence for storing and processing rough stone, m-sand, gravel and crusher dust in Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. But, he instead indulged in illegal quarrying in the adjacent lands including Vandala Odai dam. The Tahsildar of Ambasamudram inspected the site and the illegal activities were brought to light. Subsequently, the Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi also inspected the site. A penalty of Rs. 9.5 crore was imposed on him for the offence. Manuvel George, a resident of Kerala had misused the licence granted to him. The High Court while transferring the case to CB-CID observed that with the connivance of local revenue and police officials, he had exploited and transported sand for commercial purposes. Earlier, the court had directed the State government to set up a monitoring unit at the Taluk, District and State levels in order to tackle the menace of illegal sand quarrying. The court adjourned the hearing in the anticipatory bail petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-anticipatory-bail-to-main-accused-in-illegal-sand-quarrying-case/article36787432.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to take part in grama sabha||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will on Saturday take part in a grama sabha at the Pappapatti reserved panchayat, which became notorious for not allowing people belonging to the Scheduled Castes to become the head of the caste Hindu-dominated rural local body for 10 years. The district administration has spruced up the local body for the first-ever visit of a Chief Minister for the grama sabha, to be held on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi. “It is a momentous occasion, as the Chief Minister himself is coming to our panchayat,” said two-time president of Pappapatti, S. Muruganantham. Along with Pappapatti, Keeripatti and Nattamangalam in the district and Kottakatchiyendal in Virudhunagar had become an eye-sore after local caste Hindus put a spoke into the process of electing the president, after the panchayats were reserved for SCs in 1996. The election could not be held for 10 years, as eligible persons were not allowed to file nominations. However, when the district administration tried to initiate penal action, the caste Hindus made their SC representatives file nominations, elected them and then forced them to resign. After the DMK came back to power in 2006, the then Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, and Local Administration Minister M.K. Stalin showed special interest to conduct elections to all the four reserved panchayats. The then Collector, T. Udhayachandran, took all-out efforts and conducted an election in 2006. “Besides the political will of the government, the strategies of the Collector and the then SP, T.S. Anbu, the continuous efforts of CPI(M) field workers made the poll possible,” said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. “Things have changed a lot. I am under no pressure from any quarter, and with the other members, I make independent decisions,” said Mr. Muruganantham. The Chief Minister will inspect the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society in K. Nattarpatti, visit the Gandhi Memorial on West Masi Street, inaugurate a Khadicraft sale and visit the Gandhi Museum. He will later inspect the site where the Kalaignar Memorial Library has been proposed to be built.  When the district administration tried to initiate penal action, the caste Hindus made SC representatives file nominations, elected them and then forced them to resign||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-take-part-in-grama-sabha/article36787090.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ascertain if Tasmac shop is near PHC’||In order to ascertain whether a Tasmac outlet in Pudukkottai district was close to a primary health centre as alleged by a petitioner, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed him to make a representation to the Collector and also deposit Rs. 10,000 with the Collector, before an inquiry was made. If the Collector finds out that the Tasmac outlet was not in consonance with guidelines, appropriate steps should be taken against the Tasmac shop. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy observed that on inquiry, if the Collector finds out that there was no breach in the guidelines for setting up the Tasmac shop, the deposit will be forfeited and put into government treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ascertain-if-tasmac-shop-is-near-phc/article36787441.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to plant saplings||Madurai Corporation will commence planting of saplings using the Miyawaki method, a Japanese technique used to raise dense forests, along the roadside and vacant lands from October 2 onwards. Volunteers interested in planting saplings and maintaining them can contact Assistant Commissioners. Zone 1 and 3: 9443739512, Zone 2: 9443739518, Zone 4: 9894429957 and Madurai Corporation call centre: 8428425000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-plant-saplings/article36787442.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||31 sovereigns of stolen gold chains recovered||Madurai city police have solved 15 out of 19 chain-snatching incidents reported in the city in September with the arrest of 12 persons and recovered 31 sovereigns of gold. Besides recovery of gold worth Rs. 11 lakh, the police have seized seven two-wheelers that were used for the crime, a press release said. The police said that the chain-snatching incidents were reported under Karimedu, Subramaniyapuram, Tirunagar, Avaniyapuram, Anna Nagar and Mathichiyam police station limits. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha appreciated the police officials for the quick recovery of the crime properties. Stating that the presence of closed-circuit television cameras was handy in identifying the criminals involved in the incidents, the Commissioner appealed to the residents to install CCTV cameras in their localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-sovereigns-of-stolen-gold-chains-recovered/article36787444.ece
02 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.55 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 686 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 53.05 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,048 cusecs and a discharge of 1,669 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,413 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Periyar 10, Thekkadi 11, Gudalur 17.5, Shanmuganadhi 10.2, Uthamapalayam 11.3, Veerapandi 22, Vaigai dam 14.6, Manjalar dam 15, Maruthanadhi 20, Sothupparai 10, Peranai 58, Kuppanampatti 22, Andipatti 64.2and Kodaikanal 8.6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36787170.ece
02 October 2021||NAMAKKAL/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Namakkal and Erode districts||Heavy rain lashed parts of Namakkal and Erode districts on Friday inundating several areas. In Namakkal, areas in Tiruchengode and Pallipalayam regions were severely affected by the rain during the early hours of Friday as several low-lying areas were flooded. The Cauvery bridge was flooded affecting traffic movement. Rainwater inundated important areas of the town. Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued persons stuck in vehicles and shifted them to safer places. District Collector Shreya P. Singh visited the affected areas and directed officials to take immediate relief measures. Talking to presspersons, Ms. Singh said that rainwater had also stagnated in a few parts of Allampalayam town panchayat. A few houses in Tiruchengode had been affected. Two schools in the region had been granted holiday for the day, she said. Ms. Singh said that the Agriculture Department had been advised to check agricultural lands affected by rain. She added that revenue officials had been advised to take action against encroachments in water channels. Ms. Singh said that 60% of works had been completed as part of mass cleaning works. Hence, areas in Kumarapalayam had not been affected by the rain. She added that the mass cleaning works would continue until 100% of the works were completed. A total of 230 persons at Suriyapalayam in Tiruchengode were shifted to relief camps and immediate relief funds had been released, Ms. Singh said. The Collector conducted a review of relief measures at the Tiruchengode Municipality and said that officials had been instructed to identify encroachments and remove them within a week. She added that patta would be given to eligible persons living in encroachments before they were removed from the place. Fire and Rescue Services had mobilised teams in nearby areas to conduct rescue operations, if required. An average of rainfall of 38.2 mm was recorded in Namakkal on Friday. 20 mm rainfall was recorded in Erumapatti, 71.4 mm in Kumarapalayam, 7 mm in Mangalapuram, 36 mm in Mohanur, 9 mm in Namakkal, 24 mm in Paramathi Vellur, 45 mm in Puduchatram, 72 mm in Rasipuram, 4 mm in Senthamangalam, 92 mm in Tiruchengode, 7 mm in District Collectorate premises and 71 mm in Kolli Hills. In Erode, rainwater inundated Karpagam layout, R.K. Road, Pallampalayam and a few other areas. An average rainfall of 57.42 mm was recorded in the district. 100 mm rainfall was recorded in Erode, 64 mm in Perundurai, 41.4 mm in Gobi, 18 mm in Thalavadi, 27 mm in Sathy, 14.4 mm in Bhavani Sagar, 103.6 mm in Bhavani, 98.2 mm in Kodumudi, 36 mm in Nambiyur, 11 mm in Chennimalai, 54 mm in Modakkuruchi, 144.2 mm Kavundapadi, 49.2 mm in Elanthakuttai Medu, 30 mm in Ammapet, 32.2 mm in Kodiveri, 51.6 mm in Kunderipallam, and 61.2 mm in Varattupallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-districts/article36787186.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC refuses to hear Jaleel’s plea against Lokayukta order||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a petition filed by former Kerala Education Minister K.T. Jaleel challenging a decision of the State High Court upholding a Lokayukta report finding him guilty of nepotism and abuse of office. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said the charges, far from being ambiguous, clearly show favouritism towards a relative. The case revolves around Mr. Jaleel’s appointment of his relative, K.T. Adeeb, as general manager with the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation, on deputation from a private bank. He had to resign as Minister in the LDF government after the Lokayukta report. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for Mr. Jaleel, said his client was not heard before the charges were laid against him. He said the case was foisted on his client by a rival political party that was facing recovery of arrears from certain NPA accounts. Mr. Sankaranarayanan submitted that the person alleged to be his client’s relative had resigned within a month after the controversy. He argued that additional requirements made in the appointment norms to the post in the Corporation were approved by the government. But the court did not budge, following which Mr. Sankaranarayanan sought to withdraw the petition. ‘No merit’ The Kerala High Court in April had observed that the Lokayukta was acting within the scope of its power and Mr. Jaleel’s challenge was “without any merit and the same is accordingly dismissed in limine .” The High Court had said abuse of public resources or position in public life for private gain would certainly amount to corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-refuses-to-hear-jaleels-plea-against-lokayukta-order/article36786925.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops permitted to function as usual||All categories of liquor shops have been allowed to function for the usual prescribed hours in new COVID-19-related lockdown relaxations that took effect on Friday and will remain in force till midnight of October 15. A government circular stated that the rules applied to all types of liquor shops — FL 1/ FL 2 / FL 2 tourism category/arrack/toddy shops. The timing is from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. for FL1/FL2 shops and from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. for arrack and toddy shops. While FL 2 regular bars have to shut at 10 p.m., the tourism category licensees can stay open till 11 p.m. The 50% seating cap has to be followed, T. Sudhakar, Deputy Excise Commissioner said. The circular also directed liquor shops to strictly adhere to all COVID-19 safety protocols prescribed by the Puducherry State Executive Committee while extending the lockdown by further easing restrictions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The stipulations include barricading the licensed premises with social distance markings to regulate crowding of customers near sales counter, implementing a proper queue system adhering to social distancing, ensuring wearing of masks by the customers and employees and frequent sanitising of the licensed premises. No liquor shall be sold to the customer if he/ she is not wearing face mask. Additional staff shall be deployed by the licensees to regulate the crowd in the shop; particularly more such staff shall be deployed at the liquor and arrack shops located in the border areas for crowd regulation and thermal scanning for customers shall be done at all licensed premises, the circular said.  No liquor shall be sold to a customer if he/ she is not wearing face mask. Additional staff shall be deployed by the licensees to regulate the crowd in the shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-permitted-to-function-as-usual/article36787397.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre gives nod for grade separator in Puducherry||The long-pending demand to have a grade separator connecting Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi squares will become a reality with Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) giving the nod to the Public Works Department to invite bids to choose a consultant to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) “The competent authority in the Ministry has accorded approval for inviting bids for engaging a consultant to prepare DPR for the construction of an elevated grade separator connecting Indira Gandhi Square and Rajiv Gandhi Square..” a communication to the Chief Engineer, PWD, from MoRTH last week said. The Ministry has asked the department to furnish the project report to initiate further steps. The communication followed a visit by officials from the Ministry for site inspection and consultation with the territorial administration in July and August. The 1.1-km grade separator would cost around Rs. 360 crore, a top official told The Hindu . The separator would start near Kokkupark and end on the flyover near RTO. “The Centre has in-principle agreed to fund the project fully. So unlike other projects, delays due to funds crunch will not happen and help in speedy completion of the project,” he also added. In the initial stages of conceptualisation of the project, the work utility was planning to have two grade separators — one at Indira Gandhi Square and another at Rajiv Gandhi square. After the site inspection by the MoRTH officials, the concept was changed to have a single grade separator taking into account the heavy flow of traffic. The move to have the grade separator assumed more relevance now with the government’s plan to construct a new Assembly complex near Rajiv Gandhi Square. The Ministry had also agreed to fund the strengthening and widening of the stretch from Marappalam to Cuddalore border. The project would cost around Rs. 19 crore, he also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-gives-nod-for-grade-separator-in-puducherry/article36787401.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No death reported in Union Territory||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as new cases dropped to 64 on Friday. Puducherry logged 38 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,365 tests, followed by Karaikal (16), Yanam (1) and Mahe (9). The test positivity rate was 1.19%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.92%. With 103 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 791. While 114 patients were in hospitals, 677 were in home isolation. The cumulative toll was 1,840 — Puducherry (1,443), Karaikal (247), Yanam (106) and Mahe (44). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,26,431 cases against 1,23,800 recoveries. Of an estimated 17.96 lakh tests administered so far, over 15.25 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 6,276 persons took the COVID-19 shot in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 10,09,289 doses, including 3,15,319 second doses. 20 new cases in Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,417 with 20 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 48,047 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 249. The district's death toll is 1,121. In Ranipet district, 15 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,060. In Tirupattur district, 18 new cases were reported on Friday and the total stood at 29,006. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 27, taking the total number of cases to 54,370.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-reported-in-union-territory/article36787395.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Varsity plans to permit students on campus from October 25||Pondicherry University is planning to permit the students into the campus in a phased manner, beginning with research scholars from October 25. In subsequent phases, final year PG students/students opting for exit option and then the other students would be allowed into the campus, the Pondicherry University said. In this regard detailed guidelines / SOPs will be notified shortly. Under a tentative schedule for permitting students on the campus, research scholars (Science, Engineering & Technology; Humanities 4th year, 5th year and research period-extended scholars would be allowed from October 25, Ph.D scholars from November 15, science, engineering, technology stream final year PG students and 3rd year PG (5 year integrated programme) from December 6 and social sciences and humanities stream from January 17. Re-entry of all other PG students and first year Ph.D. scholars admitted in 2021-22 would be decided later, the University said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-plans-to-permit-students-on-campus-from-october-25/article36787399.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Reshuffle of top officials||In a reshuffle of top officers, Pondicherry University has appointed C. K. Ramaiah, librarian (in-charge) as Controller of Examinations (in-charge) in the place of the incumbent D. Lazer who has been posted as Finance Officer (in-charge). Amaresh Samantaraya is the new Registrar (in-charge). B. Chitra, Joint Registrar and Registrar (in-charge) has been appointed Principal (in-charge), Community College. G. Chandrasekaran, incumbent, shall work as adviser till October 31, or until further orders, the University circular said. In other changes, Pramod Singh is Librarian (in-charge), M.S. Pandian, Chief Vigilance Officer (in-charge), K. Tharanikarasu and K. Chellamani, Coordinators (Recruitment) and V. Arulmurugan, Coordinator (Karaikal campus).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reshuffle-of-top-officials/article36787398.ece
02 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets death sentence for murdering his mother||The Mahila Court here on Friday awarded death sentence to a man who beheaded his mother owing to a property dispute at Maravanpatti in March 2018. Holding the accused T. Anand, now aged 27, guilty, Judge R. Sathya also slapped a fine of Rs. 50,000 on him. His mother T. Tilaka Rani was 45 years when she was murdered. Anand beheaded the woman at the bus stop and surrendered before the Village Administrative Officer. The Malaiyur police booked a case under IPC section 302 (murder) and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-death-sentence-for-murdering-his-mother/article36787154.ece
02 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram sows 17,71,840 palmyra seeds||Ramanathapuram district administration on Friday created a world record by sowing most number of palmyra seeds in 12 hours across the district in connection with Gandhi Jayanthi on October 2. A total of 17,71,840 palmyra seeds were sown at 993 locations in 429 village panchayats in the district, said Additional District Collector (District Rural Development Agency), K. J. Praveenkumar. District Revenue Officer, A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan, was present at the inaugural of the sowing exercise. “This is a way of expressing gratitude to the Father of the Nation by the workers of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme on the eve of his birth anniversary,” he said. The DRDA engaged 1,45,245 women workers of MGNREGA to sow the seeds weighing around 3.26 lakh kg. District Collector J. U. Chandrakala, took efforts to collect the seeds in the last three months. This project is also in line with Palmyra Protection Programme launched by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin and Speaker M. Appavu, had also donated one lakh palmyra seeds recently. “Palmyra is the State tree which numerous benefits to people like palm fruit, palm jelly, palm root, candy, jaggery, syrup (neera). Without realising it benefits, people have cut them down in the last few years. This massive exercise will also create an awareness about the benefits of the palm,” he said. The district administration had carefully selected the location for sowing the seeds along irrigation tanks, channel poramboke land. “The palm trees need very minimum maintenance and the monsoon season will help the growth in a big way,” he added. Adjudicatros from Elite World Records, Asian Records Academy, India Records Academy and Tamilan Book of Records who recorded the event have given provisional world record certificate for “Most Palmyra Palm Seeds Planted at Multiple Locations in 12 hours,” Mr. Praveenkumar said. The event that started at 7 a.m. got over by 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-sets-record-by-sowing-1771840-palmyra-seeds/article36787175.ece
02 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 5,000 cusecs on Friday. According to PWD officials , the water level in the dam was 72.68 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 35,046 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 9,018 cusecs of water. The discharge from the dam for irrigation was reduced from 12,000 cusecs to 5,000 cusecs of water from 4.30 p.m. on Friday owing to recent rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article36787188.ece
02 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vigilance raids conducted at govt. offices||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted raids at the government offices in districts here on Thursday and seized cash and documents. In Salem, DVAC sleuths raided RTO office, East and seized Rs. 60,700. In Namakkal, officials raided the office of Kumarapalayam Motor Vehicle Inspector and seized Rs. 24,000. In Erode, officials raided RTO office, East and seized Rs. 1.31 lakh. In Dharmapuri, officials raided the Arur town panchayat office and seized various documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigilance-raids-conducted-at-govt-offices/article36787190.ece
02 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 102 new cases in Erode||A total of 102 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Erode on Friday. As per bulletin, the district has 1,165 active cases. In Salem, 56 cases were reported. Health officials said 18 cases were indigenous and seven were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 58 cases were reported. In Krishnagiri, 28 cases were reported and in Dharmapuri, 43 cases. As per bulletin, six deaths were reported in the region including one in Salem, one in Namakkal, two in Dharmapuri and two in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-102-new-cases-in-erode/article36787187.ece
02 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bus crew resort to flash strike||Bus crew attached to the State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam division, Thanjavur Jabamalaipuram depot, resorted to a flash strike on Friday morning protesting the alleged derogatory remarks made recently by a senior member of the Tamil Nadu Cabinet against the Corporation employees. Inquiries reveal that some of the bus crew members who arrived at the Jabamalaipuram depot on Friday early morning to take out vehicles for routine town and mofussil services resorted to a flash strike, saying they were hurt by the words uttered by a senior Minister in connection with the implementation of ‘free travel’ facility offered to womenfolk in the STC services. The Minister, they claimed, responding to a query from the media on the implementation of ‘free travel’ facility, had said that the bus crew should be beaten up with ‘muram’ (rice cleaning equipment used in households) if they failed to treat the women passengers properly. Condemning the Minister for painting the entire bus crew of the STCs in black for the errant behaviour of some conductors or drivers of the public transport facility, the demonstrators exhorted the Corporation and the State government to first address their demand to consider the ‘free travel tickets’ issued to the women also for calculating the daily bata of the crew. Corporation officials rushed in and pacified the demonstrators by pointing out that “such issues” could be sorted out only through a proper channel. The officials also warned them that disruption of service for any reason without issuing prior notice would put the striking employees in a disadvantageous position. Subsequently, the buses started rolling out of the depot by around 7.15 a.m, sources said.  First address our demand to consider ‘free travel tickets’ also for calculating daily bata TNSTC crew||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-crew-resort-to-flash-strike-over-ministers-derogatory-remarks/article36787156.ece
02 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||New train service||The Thanjavur District Railway Users Association has thanked the Southern Railway for conceding its demand for a daily train between Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi. It said in a statement that an ‘unreserved express special’ is to be introduced from October 6: train no. 06414 will leave Tiruchi at 6.15 p.m. to reach Mayiladuthurai at 9.40 p.m. From the next day onwards, train no: 06413 will leave Mayiladuthurai at 6.30 a.m. to reach Tiruchi at 9.45 a.m. It will have stoppages at Kuttalam, Aduthurai, Kumbakonam, Sundaraperumalkovil, Papanasam, Pandaravadai, Thittai, Thanjavur, Alakudi, Budalur, Solagampatti, Tiruverumbur, Manjathidal and Ponmalai. Thanking the elected representatives and railway officials for their support in ensuring the introduction of this train, the Association expressed hope that their expectations of operation of MEMU service in this section would also be addressed by the Southern Railway positively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-train-facility/article36787157.ece
02 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi to get Integrated Command and Control Centre||The corporation, which is executing development projects worth Rs. 1,000 crore under its ongoing ‘Smart City’ programme, is all set to establish an ‘Integrated Command and Control Centre’ on an outlay of Rs. 10 crore for fine-tuning vehicular traffic regulation, drinking water supply, underground drainage system, street-lighting etc. As the Corporation is upgrading roads, bus-stands, bus-stops, drinking water distribution, storm water drainage, parks, vehicle parking bays etc. under the ‘Smart City’ programme, the urban civic body has embarked on establishing an ‘Integrated Command and Control Center’ to streamline the vehicular traffic, drinking water distribution, vehicle parking, time-table of mofussil buses, sewerage pumping etc. and sharing these information with the public. In this connection, the Corporation held discussion with the stakeholders comprising school and college students, teachers, representatives of traders’ associations, autorickshaw and cab drivers and non-governmental organisations. After Assistant Executive Engineer Saravanan and Assistant Engineer Prince explained in detail about the facilities available in the ‘Integrated Command and Control Center’ and its advantages through power-point presentation, Executive Engineer Ruben Suresh Ponniah, who was chairing the meeting, summed-up the ‘Smart City’ projects. “Since the public can register complaints with the ‘Integrated Command and Control Center’ in case of any complaints relating to the Center, it will come in handy for the Corporation to attend the problem within next few minutes to ensure normalcy at the earliest,” Mr. Ruben Suresh Ponniah said adding that the public could get any information relating to Corporation from this Center. After clarifying the doubts of the participants, the officials also recorded the suggestions given by them to make the system more effective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-to-get-integrated-command-and-control-centre/article36787431.ece
02 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Three held for buying baby||Police have arrested three persons, including a couple, for buying a 9-month-old male baby illegally for Rs. 3 lakh. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Manikandan, 38, of Aruppukottai, who married Jeba Malar, 28, of Masons’ Colony here in 2019, was living separately following frequent domestic quarrel after she gave birth to a male baby nine months ago. Since Jeba Malar’s parents were taking steps for conducting a remarriage for her, they thought that the baby would be an obstacle for their efforts. Jeba Malar, her brother Antony, father Selvaraj, mother Kiruba and relative Daniel sold the baby for Rs. 3 lakh to a couple - Selvamani, 52, and Sri Devi, 40, - from Mela Soorankudi in Nagercoil on September 23 with the help of brokers - Jesudas and Karthikeyan. When Manikandan came to know about the sale of his son, he filed a complaint with SIPCOT Police, who arrested Selvamani, Sridevi and broker Karthikeyan from Reddiyarpatti in Rajapalayam and rescued the baby. The baby was handed over to the District Child Protection Officer. The hunt is on to nab Jeba Malar, Antony, Selvaraj, Kiruba, Daniel and Jesudas. “Since illegal adoption is a crime, three persons have been arrested and the police are on the lookout for six others including the baby’s mother. Those who want to adopt a child should follow the guidelines stipulated by the government and adopt the baby from authorised adoption centre where the couple should register their names in advance,” Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-buying-baby/article36787176.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi police on the trail of history-sheeters on the run||Continuing the drive against anti-social elements, the Tiruchi Rural Police have formed special teams at every sub-division across the district to track down and apprehend absconding history-sheeters. They have a list of 70 such persons, obtained from the Organised Crime Intelligence Unit.. On the direction of Superintendent of Police Pa. Moorthy, five-member teams have been constituted in the sub-divisions of Jeeyapuram, Manapparai, Musiri, Lalgudi and Tiruverumbur. Each team will have a Sub-Inspector and four constables and a separate list of history-sheeters to look for. They have been equipped with arms and vehicles to carry out the task. These team members have been spared of other duties so that they can focus on their assigned task, the Superintendent of Police told The Hindu . Four categories The criminals have been classified as A+, A, B and C categories. Those falling under A+ category are those who carry out inter-district criminal activities. During ‘Operation Disarm’ drive carried out in the district as per the instruction of the Director General of Police, 19 history-sheeters were arrested and remanded in custody. Their weapons were also seized. List of workshops Having compiled a list of workshops manufacturing knives and other weapons, the police have asked their owners to collect information about their customers in a given format. In Tiruchi district, 40 such workshops have been identified. The owners must maintain a register and enter the name and address of the buyer; reason for buying; type of the weapon and its size. They have also been asked to enter the Aadhaar number of the buyer and pass on the information to the police who would cross-check the details in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System (CCTNS). In case the buyer’s name finds place in the history-sheeter list, he would be secured. The police are also planning to create WhatsApp groups in every sub-division with owners of work sheds as members so as to share the details. A separate team has been formed to examine closed history sheets and track down those people to confirm that their ‘inactive’ status.  The hunt is on Special teams have been formed in the five sub-divisions of Tiruchi district Five-man police teams are in search with a list 70 history-sheeters obtained from intelligence unit Closed history sheets opened to confirm their ‘inactive’ status||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-police-on-the-trail-of-history-sheeters-on-the-run/article36787153.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rockfort glows in pink for breast cancer awareness||The city's iconic landmark - Rockfort - will be illuminated in pink this month to commemorate the Breast Cancer Awareness month. Organised by Harshamitra Super Speciality Cancer Centre and Research Institute, the lights are an attempt at creating awareness about the disease and early intervention. An awareness programme was inaugurated by MLA S. Inigo Irudhayaraj near the Rockfort temple on Friday. According to statistics, the number of patients diagnosed with the illness is increasing every year. However, early intervention can prevent mortality, Mr. Irudhayaraj said. As per data, for every two women newly diagnosed with breast cancer, one dies in India. This is due to a lack of awareness, due to which the condition is detected at a later stage. “Women over the age of 40 must undergo mammogram screening. If detected at the early stage, patients can become 100% cancer-free,” G. Govindaraj, Managing Director, Harshamitra Super Speciality Cancer Centre and Research Institute, said. The hospital is also conducting exciting contests wherein women who have undergone a mammogram are eligible to win a two-wheeler. R. Sudarshan, Joint Commissioner (Tiruchi Region), Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, and T. Vijayarani, Assistant Commissioner, Tiruchi Rockfort Thayumanavar Swamy Temple, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rockfort-glows-in-pink-for-breast-cancer-awareness/article36787165.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||318 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in delta districts||The central region reported 318 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, a slight increase compared to the past few days. Seven people succumbed to the illness - two in Thanjavur and one each in Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi districts. Thanjavur district reported a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. On Friday, 107 cases were reported in Thanjavur, 59 were reported in Tiruchi and 51 in Tiruvarur. Nagapattinam reported 30 fresh cases, Mayiladuthurai 23, and Karur, 22. Pudukottai continues to report a marked dip with 14 cases while Perambalur reported seven. Five patients reported positive in Ariyalur district, the least number of cases for the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/318-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-delta-districts/article36787167.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Pudukottai||Sevaral parts of Tiruchi district received moderate rainfall on Friday morning. Several parts of Karur and Pudukottai also received moderate to heavy overnight rainfall. Some of the low-lying areas in Pudukottai district were inundated following the heavy rain in the town and surrounding areas since Thursday night. Manamelkudi in Pudukottai district recorded the maximum of 185 mm of rainfall during the 24 hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday. The district received widespread rain with Ponnamaravathi recording 110 mm followed by Pudukottai 95, Alangudi 87, Avudayarkovil 80.20, Arimalam 82.40, Malaiyur 78.30 and Thirumayam 42 during the same period. A holiday was declared for schools and colleges in Karur district on Friday following heavy and widespread rainfall since Thursday, Collector T.Prabhushankar said. Thogamalai in the district recorded 80 mm of rainfall in the 24-hour period followed by Aravakurichi 64, K. Paramathi 59.6 and Mayanur 44. Tiruchi city and many parts of the district recorded moderate rainfall early on Friday morning and overcast conditions prevailed in the later half of the day. Vathalai Anicut in the district recorded the maximum of 112.4 mm, Navalur Kottapattu 79.40, Tiruchi Town 70, Manapparai 67.49, Musiri 62, Ponnaniyar Dam 37.20 and Marungapuri 32.40. Perambalur recorded 87 mm of rainfall and Chettikulam 25 Sendurai in neighbouring Ariyalur district registered 32. 6 mm of rain during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-low-lying-areas-inundated-in-pudukottai/article36787163.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three boys drown in pond||Three boys, including two brothers, drowned in a pond at Punavasipatti in Karur district on Friday. The boys were grazing goats and apparently entered into the pond in the afternoon to take bath and drowned. They were identified as A. Vasanth, 12, his brother A. Mayilmurugan, 11, and K. Naveenkumar, 13. The bodies were retrieved and sent to the Government Hospital at Kulithalai where the post mortem was done. The Lalapet police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-boys-drown/article36787155.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Friday stood at 72.55 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 8,945 cusecs and the discharge 12,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36787159.ece
02 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Poll contestants tap social media||With candidates vying for various positions in the rural local bodies and only three days left for electioneering, the aspirants are making an all-out effort to lure electorate by employing all possible strategies, including social media. Before starting their campaign, the contestants meet the village heads, important persons hailing from various castes and religions and trustees of village temples in a bid to win their support as it would ultimately fetch them the votes of their supporters also. When the candidates meet the temple administrators, they invariably promise renovation of the temples or creating new facilities in these places of worship. Then, they start their electioneering by meeting voters at their doorsteps. Even as painting of symbols with names of candidates on compound walls of houses goes on, distribution of pamphlets carrying the promises made by candidates is done during ‘door canvassing’. This is further strengthened by campaign vehicles visiting all streets and street-corner campaign has become an inseparable part of the electioneering. “Since winning the panchayat president post is a matter of pride an intense fight is on to win the battle of ballots. This is one of the factors that worsens or revives enmity between candidates belonging to particular families that has led to even murders in the past in Tirunelveli district,” says ‘Minnal’ Mohammed Ali, a MDMK functionary from Maanur near here. For the first time, social media platforms, mostly WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram, are playing a major role. Promises made by candidates are being taken to voters through these platforms. “Since, contestants have list of phone numbers of voters, candidates send their promises to the electorate everyday seeking their support. They also point out the omissions of the rival candidates,” says R. Murugavel of Ariyakulam near Palayamkottai. The contestants give tall promises to the voters – right from laying of new roads and constructing drainage channels to establishing primary health centers, veterinary hospitals, rural banks, new middle schools in every village panchayat etc. “We know that some of these promises cannot be fulfilled by the candidates… but we smile and promise them that we would vote for them,” says N. Mangayarkarasi, a matriculation school teacher from Radhapuram. Demand for announcers with attractive male and female voice is very high now as they are being hired by candidates to record these promises. Later, these recorded voices are aired through election campaign vehicles, WhatsApp, Facebook etc. “We use the latest software for recording the promises. We also record election campaign songs in the tune of popular cinema songs. Since, the Election Commission has imposed several restrictions, this mode of campaign has come in handy for candidates,” says Parvathi Muththamizh, a popular announcer here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contestants-in-rural-local-body-elections-tap-social-media/article36787181.ece
02 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 86.45 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 811.53 cusecs and 507.25 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 63.40 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 40 cusecs and no water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36787429.ece
02 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Women cyclathon’ held in Tiruppur||Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati flagged off a bicycling event for women on Friday, which was organised as part of the celebrations to mark the 75th year of Indian Independence and to create awareness on COVID-19 and Smart Cities Mission.  A release said that the cyclathon was flagged off at the Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road by Mr. Pati at 6 a.m. Nearly 80 women from schools, colleges, voluntary organisations and Corporation employees participated in the rally, which covered nearly eight km through Avinashi Road, Perumanallur Road and back to the Corporation headquarters. Mr. Pati told reporters the event was also organised to encourage bicycling among the residents of Tiruppur as an alternative mode of transport. As part of the event, NGO Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom presented kits comprising plates, sweet boxes, masks and sanitary napkins to 50 conservancy workers attached to the Tiruppur Corporation. Mr. Pati presented these kits to the workers in the presence of the NGO’s founder Kavitha Jenarthanan, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-cyclathon-held-in-tiruppur/article36787100.ece
02 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur receives widespread rain||Tiruppur district received widespread rain from Thursday evening to Friday morning, leading to inundation of several low-lying areas and intermittent power outages. According to the district administration’s rainfall data for the 24-hour period ending 7 a.m. Friday, Uthukuli received 39.2 mm rainfall, Dharapuram 37 mm, Vellakoil 36.3 mm, Kundadam 32 mm, Mulanur 22 mm, Avinashi 13.5 mm, Tiruppur North 26 mm and Collectorate 11 mm. The district received an average rainfall of 17.44 mm in this period. Following reports of flooding in certain pockets, the district administration announced a half-day holiday for all schools in the district from Friday noon. However, sources said that some private schools in the city had declared full-day holiday for students on Friday. Over 50 residents of the Adi Dravidar Colony in Karumancherai near Kunnathur petitioned District Collector S. Vineeth demanding steps to prevent rainwater from entering into their homes. The residents said in the petition that a water body nearby overflowed every year during monsoon and inundated their houses. Despite multiple representations in the past, the authorities had not taken steps to mitigate the situation, the residents alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-receives-widespread-rain/article36787112.ece
02 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted money seized from Tangedco office in Tiruppur||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted a surprise search at the Tangedco office in Kumar Nagar within the Tiruppur Corporation limits on Thursday. Sources said on Friday that unaccounted cash worth Rs. 36,000 was seized from the office premises.  Tip-off The searches were conducted based on a tip-off. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-money-seized-from-tangedco-office-in-tiruppur/article36787196.ece
02 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes Rs. 77,100 cash at RTO checkpost near Katpadi||In the early hours on Friday, the sleuths from the Vellore unit of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 77,100 from the checkpost of Regional Transport Office (RTO) at Christianpet near Katpadi in Vellore. The search lasted for five hours between 5 a.m. and 10 a.m. on Friday. Friday's surprise check comes after similar searches were carried out by the DVAC in which they seized unaccounted cash from the Sub-Registrar office in Velapadi in Vellore on Thursday. The same two teams, comprising four officials in each team, that was led by DVAC inspector Vijayalakshmi and Vijay, conducted the surprise check in the early hours on Friday at the checkpost. “Such surprise checks do happen on a regular basis. Before going for such checks, we ensure that we verify our alerts with multiple sources,” said a DVAC official. The Christianpet is a border village connecting neighbouring Andhra Pradesh (Chittoor) with Katpadi in Vellore. It has two checkposts — one maintained by the district police and the other by the transport department separately. The significance of conducting the surprise check early in the morning, DVAC officials said, was because transport staff changed their shift around that time with their collections. Also, DVAC officials said the checkpost witnesses more number of goods-laden lorries during early hours in the day, especially from neighbouring States like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to reach Chennai, Tiruvannamalai and Puducherry. These vehicles rush through the checkposts at Christianpet near Vellore to avoid traffic snarls at industrial zones in Sriperumbudur and Irungattukottai areas in Kancheepuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-seizes-rs-77100-cash-at-rto-checkpost-near-katpadi/article36787440.ece
02 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore Collector, SP pedal for more road space to walkers and cyclists||Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian and Superintendent of Police S. Selvakumar pedalled around three km, between Bagayam and Thorapadi, in Vellore on Friday to create awareness among residents of the need for reclaiming road space for cyclists and walkers. Part of the National Smart Cities Mission, the initiative is aimed at creating better civic amenities and infrastructure in emerging tier-II cities. It is also meant to encourage people to celebrate 75 years of India’s independence. “Along with the police, we are taking steps to remove encroachments from pavements on busy stretches to give more space to walkers. We are also encouraging street-hawkers to move to their allocated space so as to reclaim the space for cyclists,” Mr. Pandian said. Under the Smart Cities Mission, projects worth Rs. 650 crore were launched in Vellore in 2019. Among them were a multi-level car parking lot at three locations at a cost of Rs. 31 crore, an underground sewage system, drinking water schemes and a 2.14-MW solar power generation unit. The Vellore Corporation has four zones that cover 60 wards with a population of seven lakh. One of the major steps taken to reclaim road space for walkers is a ban on the parking of four- wheelers on key stretches and at landmarks like Vellore Fort. Only two-wheelers are allowed to park near Corporation-run Sarathy mansion, located opposite the fort. policemen have been deployed to ensure order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-collector-sp-pedal-for-more-road-space-to-walkers-and-cyclists/article36787438.ece
02 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Water treatment plant opened at Collectorate||A new reverse osmosis water treatment plant was inaugurated at the Collectorate here on Friday. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy opened the Rs. 9.57 lakh worth new facility that has been sponsored by Chairman of Ramco Group, P. R. Venketrama Raja. A total of 3,000 litres of water from Tamirabarani Combined Drinking Water Scheme supplied by Tamil Nadu Drinking Water Supply and Drainage Board to the Collectorate will be treated at the new facility. The treated water will be supplied for people visiting the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-treatment-plant-opened-at-collectorate/article36787173.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Round-the-clock beat system introduced||A round-the-clock beat system to curb offences has been introduced in Tiruchi range consisting of Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Karur and Ariyalur districts with a view to improving visible policing. Beat Constables have been given two-wheelers, walkie talkie sets, reflective jackets and batons. The vehicles will have sirens and blinkering lights. Central zone Inspector General of Police V. Balakrishnan launched the beat system here on Friday and flagged off 36 two-wheelers given to the constables attached to the Tiruchi Rural Police to carry out patrolling in their respective jurisdictions. In a brief interaction with reporters, Mr. Balakrishnan said beat constables would patrol in three shifts round the clock, also covering those areas where offences had been reported, to ensure visible policing in such places. The beat constables would accept complaints from the public, especially from those who were unable to approach the police station, and convey it to their superiors for necessary action, Mr. Balakrishnan said. Deputy Inspector General of Police A. Saravana Sundar launched the round-the-clock beat system in Pudukottai and flagged off the two-wheelers given to the beat constables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/round-the-clock-beat-system-introduced/article36787161.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Order issued to hunt T23||MTR Field Director D. Venkatesh, as well as officials of the district administration, arrived at the site of the protest and attempted to convince them to disperse peacefully. Police presence was also stepped up. Mr. Venkatesh told the protesters that an order had been passed to hunt the tiger and urged them to return home so that the Forest Department could quickly act on the order to capture or eliminate the animal.  ‘Last resort’ The order was issued as a six-day operation to capture the animal had been unfruitful. While there were reports that the order was to terminate or eliminate the tiger, Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj clarified that shooting would be the last resort after all efforts to capture the tiger failed. Herders killed All four persons that the tiger is believed to have killed were herders grazing livestock on the forest fringes. Forest Department teams from Kerala as well as Special Task Force personnel are being drafted for the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-issued-to-hunt-t23/article36787092.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For the occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-the-occasion/article36787194.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Corporate Connect – ‘General Insurance’, 11 a.m.  Seyal NGO: Distribution of financial aid to school students, Kanagaraj Memorial Ground, Velandipalayam, 9.30 a.m.  Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women: Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36787113.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Sharon: International Day of Non Violence, distribution of prizes to winners of skill development competitions, Senthil Kumar, Nallusamy, Chief Cardiologist, Rana Hospital, chief guest, R. C. Middle School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, 11 am.  District Exnora and Inner Wheel Club of Tiruchi: Inauguration of cleaned and refurbished Kambarasampettai bathing ghat, 5 p.m.  Santhanam Vidyalaya: Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations and felicitations to young achievers in ‘silambam,’ 9.30 a.m.  District Administration: 75th year of Independence commemorative run, near Salt Sathyagraha Memorial, 6.50 a.m.  Tiruchi Corporation Smart Cities Mission: 75th year of Independence – yoga session, near Anna Nagar Link Road, 6.30 a.m.; ‘Freedom 2 walk and cycle campaign,’ women’s cycle rally, 7.30 a.m. and 6 p.m.  Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation: Exhibition-cum-sale of ‘kolu’ dolls, Poompuhar showroom, Singarathope, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.  Khadi Kraft: Inauguration of Deepavali khadi discount sale by Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, near railway junction, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article36787489.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power woes: Industrial sector sees red||Hit by the blow delivered by COVID-19, industries, like many other sectors, have only started making a slow recovery. But apart from the challenges due to the pandemic and its impact, they say intermittent power supply is turning out to be another spoke in the wheel. On Friday, members of the Machohalli Small Scale Industries Association staged a protest alleging severe power shortage. Suresh N. Sagar, vice-president of the association, said they have been faced with power disruptions for a decade. “Earlier, there were fewer industries. Now, the numbers are huge as they are unable to get a place in the city. In Machohalli, private land has been taken on lease or rent. There are a minimum of 1,500 industries now, employing around 25,000 people. Apart from paying revenue of up to Rs. 7 crore per month to the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), we are also paying Rs. 500 crore a month in GST and other taxes,” he said, alleging that despite this there were no facilities, noteven motorable roads. “Sans power, we cannot run industry. I am manufacturing a plastic component. When the power goes, the polymer in liquid state will be solidified. This cannot be used and I have to throw out 5 kg of material worth Rs. 2,000. MSMEs are already in a bad state and we are only recovering now,” he said. Shrinath Bhandary, energy expert, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association, said the irony was that Karnataka today was producing excess power. Power is available, but agencies are not being able to make it available because of poor infrastructure, he said. “In Machohalli, for example, there is four hours of load shedding a day. There is a legal issue in establishing a line to Tavarekere. Industries in Karnataka are not getting any benefits.” He added that though HT was the highest consuming sector, tariffs are enhanced every year, resulting in many leaving the Bescom grid as power was more cheaply available on open access. “Even the incentive is of no use as a person drawing power above 100 units before COVID-19 when business was good is drawing 60 to 70 units now,” he added. Mr. Bhandary said similar issues were being reported from Dobbaspet too, though Peenya Industrial Area has seen an improvement with upgraded infrastructure. ‘No shortage’ Bescom managing director P. Rajendra Cholan told The Hindu there was no power shortage in the State and, on the contrary, it was selling surplus power on the exchange. “Machohalli is a different issue as there are system constraints. The Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation has already taken initiative and is working on that. As for other industrial areas, we are selecting five to be developed as model ones. They will be developed on 17 parameters, including an exclusive unit to address their issues, UG and AB cables, etc.,” he said. Mr. Cholan acknowledged that in some areas, UG cable work was under way, as a result of which there were scheduled outages.  I am manufacturing a plastic component. When the power goes, the polymer in liquid state will be solidified. This cannot be used and I have to throw out 5 kg of material worth Rs. 2,000 Suresh N. Sagar,vice-president, Machohalli Small Scale Industries Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-woes-industrial-sector-sees-red/article36786997.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Low turnout as schools operate at full capacity||Despite upper primary and high schools opening their doors to all students and operating at 100% capacity for all of Friday, attendance remained low, especially in private schools. Many managements had also decided not to operate for the entire day because of lack of adequate infrastructure. To address the problem and allay fears of children contracting COVID-19 in packed classrooms, some schools have decided to conduct classes outdoors. “We do not have adequate classrooms to maintain social distancing among students. Open-air classes is one solution,” said the principal of a private school in Bengaluru. Many other schools also decided to run classes only for half the day as they felt that managing children and ensuring that they followed COVID-appropriate behaviour during the lunch break and short break would be a challenge. Mansoor Ali Khan, member of the board of management at Delhi Public School, said they would start physical classes after the Dasara holidays. “We are considering conducting classes in open spaces such as playgrounds and basketball courts,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, also reported low attendance on Friday. “We expect students to come to school after the Dasara holidays as parents are worried about the viral flu that is in the air,” he said, adding that many of its member schools were planning to conduct classes in auditoriums, rooftops, and playgrounds. “We are running out of time as the academic calendar has been disrupted. So we will conduct full-day classes and utilise all the infrastructure we have. Once primary classes reopen, we will find it challenging to maintain physical distance among students,” he said. Ranju S., whose son studies in class VII, said, “As children are not vaccinated, I will be more confident about sending my child to school if classes are held outdoors. I will give my consent only if this is done. I have told the class teacher that my son will not enter the school building,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-turnout-as-schools-operate-at-full-capacity/article36787009.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Company vehicles can use bus lane on ORR||People working in offices along the Outer Ring Road have another reason to leave their cars at home. Company buses ferrying employees will be allowed to use the bus priority lane on the ORR. The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), in a letter to theBengaluru Traffic Police, said that in the wake of metro construction work between Silk Board and K.R. Puram, all the stakeholders have decided to allow buses used by private firms and shuttle services on the bus priority lane. Up until now, only city buses operated by Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and emergency vehicles were allowed on the lane. Buses ferrying employees must display the name of the company and the logo. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda said that in addition to company-operated buses, there was a need to allow other passenger vehicles such as taxis and autos on the lane on some stretches of the ORR. “Metro piers will come up on the median of the road. As a result, the width of the road will be reduced. If the width is under 9metres, we will have to allow other yellow-board passenger vehicles to use the priority lane. DULT has asked for company buses to use the priority lane, which will be allowed soon,” he said. This move will help hundreds of employees who work in the area. Several companies located on either side of ORR provide shuttle services to Silk Board or Baiyappanahalli metro station, and will now be able to use it as well. The Outer Ring Road Companies Association (ORRCA) had requested DULT to consider allowing the company buses on the bus priority lane to reduce the congestion. “We are glad that [our request] has been accepted. This will save time through transit to and from work for employees. It could result in more people using company-provided transport instead of personal modes of transport, which in turn will reduce the number of vehicles on the road,” said Krishna Kumar Gowda, operations manager of ORRCA. At present, the BMTC operates 2,000 trips through ORR. “Allowing other vehicles will have an impact on our services, but it is inevitable,” said a BMTC official, adding that already private cars and two-wheelers have started using the priority lane. “In the coming days, more vehicles will start using it as congestion increases,”he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/company-vehicles-can-use-bus-lane-on-orr/article36787002.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Making farming non-violent again||Agricultural scientist H. Manjunath, who co-founded the Gandhian School of Natural Farming on the outskirts of Tumakuru city, wants to “make farming non-violent again”. “There is so much violence in the farming we practise today. We have increased our yield, but the soil has been degraded, the quality of food is worse, and the farmer’s life is in tatters. Making farming non-violent again is the only way to come out of this vicious cycle,” he said. Can we live without harming anyone else? That is the question he asks himself. “We need to move towards living such a life and this must include concern for not only humans, but also nature. That is what Mahatma Gandhi and J.C. Kumarappa [noted economist] thought about,” he said. Dr. Manjunath believes that a non-violent approach to farming is the only way out of our present crisis - battered farmer lives and malnutrition amidst surplus food production, deteriorating quality of food, degradation and desertification of our land, rapid migration, and climate change. Having conducted workshops and classes in organic farming for over a decade, Dr. Manjunath co-founded the Gandhian School of Natural Farming in 2021 to teach sustainable agriculture. Islands of success Students are taught everything from solid regeneration and mixed cropping to forestry and seed selection. “In many cases organic farms have become islands of success, which will eventually be overwhelmed by climate change and other factors affecting the community. So we need to make this a social movement, motivate others to adopt the same methods. We need to engage with the community and create a sustainable ecosystem,” Dr. Manjunath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/making-farming-non-violent-again/article36787032.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many facilities have smoking areas without NOC: Survey||A survey of designated smoking areas (DSAs) in the city has revealed blatant violation of the provisions under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), and that only 1.9% of facilities had a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to set up the DSAs. The survey — conducted by Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) in association with the city-based NGO MAYA (Movement for Youth Awareness and Alternatives) — was conducted to mark the 13th anniversary of the ban on smoking in public places. The survey was held at 140 facilities in Jayanagar and Indiranagar localities. Among the surveyed sites, 86.6% were not aware of the order issued by BBMP that mandates the setting up of DSAs as per the provisions of COTPA. As per COTPA, any hotel, bar or restaurant having more than 30 seats should provide DSA which has to comply with the provisions, such as having automated doors and exhaust fans to ventilate smoke outside without permeating into the non-smoking area. The baseline survey that covered important components of DSA rules, looked into smoking observations in hotels, setting up of a DSA, and NOC status (applied/approved/rejected) by the BBMP. Only 1.9% The survey found that the existence of DSA was observed in 9.5% of the eligible facilities. While 20% of the indoor DSAs fulfilled recommended criteria for such areas, only 1.9% of the facilities had NOC from the BBMP during the time of the survey. While the presence of indoor smoking was observed in 29.4% of the facilities, 86.6% of the surveyed sites were not aware of DSA letters issued by BBMP. Most importantly, ‘No Smoking’ signage as per guidelines was seen in only 10.5% of the surveyed facilities. “Although COTPA legislation has been present for almost two decades, a significant number of breaches in law were observed during the survey, emphasising the need for strict enforcement from the local authority at the earliest,” said Ranganath T.S., professor and head of the Department of Community Medicine at BMCRI. Alex Rodriguez, CEO of MAYA, said that the government should amend COTPA and ban DSA completely and save the health of passive smokers, considering the blatant violations by hotels, bars, and restaurants. Oncologist Ramesh Bilimagga, advisor to the Consortium for Tobacco-Free Karnataka, said, “Public places should be 100% smoke-free.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-facilities-have-smoking-areas-without-noc-survey/article36786998.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State turns its focus on monthly vaccination target||Karnataka’s rate of vaccination has been uneven, with numbers high on ‘Lasika Utsav’ days (Wednesdays) and lower than the targeted five lakh on other days. After 10,50,756 doses were administered on Wednesday (September 29), the number was just 1,82,209 on Thursday (September 30). However, with over 78% of the 4.97 crore adult population having received at least one dose, State health officials say the focus is now on the monthly target of 1.4 crore rather than daily numbers. From a total of 3,36,208 doses administered in January, when the average daily vaccination was 21,013 doses, Karnataka administered 1,37,79,708 doses in September, the highest so far. The average daily vaccination touched 4,75,162 doses in September. Apart from thee weekly ‘Lasika Utsavs’, September also saw a mega vaccination drive on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday (September 17). Over 31 lakh doses were administered during the drive — the second highest in the country after Bihar. Theinitial target was to administer 10 lakh doses every Wednesday. However, except on the first Wednesday (September 1) when 12,04,402 doses were administered and last Wednesday (September 29) when nearly 11 lakh doses were administered, the State was not able to achieve more than half the target. On the rest of the days, the doses administered were less than threelakh per day. December target Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu that the focus was now on the monthly vaccination target rather than daily numbers. “The adult population of Karnataka is about 4.9 crore. Till now, we have administered 5.62 crore doses in total. This means we need to administer another 4.2 crore doses to fully vaccinate the adult population. To achieve our target of completing vaccination by December-end, we need to achieve 1.4 crore doses per month, which we are focussing on,” he said. “If we maintain the current pace of vaccination over the next three months, we will comfortably reach the target.” Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said it was not possible to take up vaccination ona mission mode on a daily basis. “We involve staff and services of all departments for the special drives, which cannot be done on a daily basis,” she said. Asserting that the focus was now on districts that have recorded low vaccination rates, the official said, “All those who were keen on getting vaccinated have been covered. Now, the remaining population is the one that needs to be motivated to get vaccinated. That is why some districts are lagging behind.” Pointing out that the departmentwas chalking out a new strategy to ramp up vaccination in such districts, she said vaccinators are now visiting the houses of people to persuade them to get vaccinated. “We are also taking up a door-to-door survey to find out from people why they are not interested in getting vaccinated, and to see how many persons in a household are yet to take the vaccine. This will help us get better in micro-planning,” she said.  To achieve our target of completing vaccination by December-end, we need to achieve 1.4 crore doses per month... If we maintain the current pace over the next three months, we will comfortably reach the target K. Sudhakar, Health and Medical Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-turns-its-focus-on-monthly-vaccination-target/article36787008.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes sale of houses to 10 govt. staff||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed the sale of houses to 10 government servants by the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) in clear violation of the well-defined regulations for allotment of houses by erroneously citing a 2013 order of the court. While imposing a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on the KHB, the court also directed that the board not allot, sell or lease out properties to any persons without following the procedures prescribed in the KHB Act, 1962 and the Allotment Regulations of 1983. A Division Bench passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition filed by K.S. Chandrashekar and others from Hosanagar in Shivamogga. The petitioners pointed out that some of the houses built at Hosanagar by the KHB were allotted to various government servants between 1995 and 2011 and some of them wanted these houses to be given to them permanently as per the KHB’s scheme. The Bench noted that the High Court in 2013 had only asked the government to consider their representation seeking the houses to be allotted to them by way of lease-cum-sale scheme of KHB while declining to issue any direction to the government. Also, the Bench noticed, the government in 2013 had written to KHB that these quarters could not be considered for sale as they were required to be used as quarters for government servants, citing shortage of quarters for government staff. Strangely, the Bench said, the KHB Commissioner in 2017 allotted 10 of the houses used as quarters to those government servants who were using them by erroneously mentioning in allotment letter that houses were being sold to them based on the High Court’s 2013 order. “In case such a practice is permitted, the KHB, which deals with transfer of government property, will start allotting quarters by way of lease/sale to the government servants or who is a retired government servant,” without following the regulations for allotment that had transparent procedure for allotment of houses, the Bench said. While directing the 10 beneficiaries to hand over the possession of these 10 houses to the KHB within 60 days, the Bench also directed the board to return the amount collected from them by way of sale consideration along with interest at 12.5% per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-quashes-sale-of-houses-to-10-govt-staff/article36787027.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress questions silence of PM, Shah on seizure of heroin||Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the seizure of around 3,000 kg of heroin worth Rs. 21,000 crore at Adani Mundra port in Gujarat poses a threat to the country’s national security. She questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah’s silence on the issue. Addressing reporters in Bengaluru, she said: “Can an ‘import’ of this magnitude be attempted by anyone without official patronage at a high level? Why are the PM, HM silent? The Union government has not filled the vacancy for a full-time Director-General at the Narcotics Control Bureau for the last 18 months.” Probe sought Noting that a huge quantity of drugs was being imported from Afghanistan, which is under the control of the Taliban, Ms. Shrinate sought a probe under the supervision of a Supreme Court sitting judge into the matter of national security. She alleged that about 25,000 kg of heroin worth Rs. 1,75,000 crore was imported in June and the consignment was already in the market. Import of drugs from Afghanistan poses a serious threat to national security and pushes youth towards drug addiction, she said. Posing 10 questions to the Narendra Modi-led government, she sought to know: “Why has Adani Mundra port not been investigated? Why has this port in Gujarat become the seemingly preferred route to import drugs to India? What is India’s Narcotics Control Bureau, CBI, ED, and DRI up to? Is there a rule that restricts them to merely intimidating political opponents?” “This heroin, fraudulently branded as ‘semi cut talcum powder’, was imported from Afghanistan by Aashi Trading Company whose owners Sudhakar Macchwaram and his wife Govind Raju Vaishali have been arrested. But, one still doesn’t know the real faces behind the drug syndicate because it is impossible for a small-time trader to import drugs of this magnitude,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-questions-silence-of-pm-shah-on-seizure-of-heroin/article36787030.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes sale of CA site by KHB to trust||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday quashed an absolute sale deed registered in violation of rules by the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) in respect of a civic amenities (CA) site in the city in favour of a trust managed by the wife of Lok Sabha member UmeshG. Jadhav. While directing the KHB to take possession of the site, the court directed the State to conduct an inquiry on how officials executed an absolute sale deed in favour the trust on July 28, 2020 when the law permits execution of only lease deed in respect of CA sites. The court imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on the KHB while directing the government to recover the cost from the officials responsible for the violation. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while allowing a PIL petition filed by 72-year-old Adinarayanashetty of Koramangala. The petitioner had questioned the legality of the absolute sale deed executed in favour of Murthy Charitable Trust, managed by its president Gayathri Jadhav. The KHB had executed the absolute sale deed in respect of CA site number 35, 5th Phase, Yelahanka New Town, measuring around 278.73 sq. m, for a price of Rs. 21.87 lakh. Observing that “the procedure has been given up for obvious reasons,” the Bench said that “if such execution of sale deeds are permitted, there will be total anarchy in the system and lead to favouritism”. The Bench also observed that “the most shocking aspect of the case is that the mentality of the KHB in violating the provisions of the law governing allotment of civic amenity sites”. Initially, a conditional sale deed in respect of the same site, measuring an area of 232 sq. m, was executed in favour of the trust on August 23, 2004, for setting up an educational institution by imposing conditions that building for the institution should be constructed within three years,  lease period is for five years with provision for extension and cancellation of the lease in case of violation of any condition. Conditions violated However, the trust violated the conditions as it had neither put up any construction nor utilised the CA site even after more than 15 years. The KHB, instead of cancelling the lease for breach of conditions, executed absolute deed in favour of the trust by collecting Rs. 21.87 lakh. The Bench also expressed displeasure over the conduct of the trust for going back on its undertaking given to the court on March 31, 2021, that it would execute a deed of cancellation of the sale deed. The trust had given the undertaking after the court decided to hold that the site was given illegally, but on August 30 it filed a petition seeking review of the court’s March 31 order in which the trust’s undertaking was recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-quashes-sale-of-ca-site-by-khb-to-trust/article36786999.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Byelections: JD(S) fields Muslims||The Janata Dal (Secular) has decided to field Muslim candidates in the bypoll-bound constituencies of Sindgi and Hangal. While the party on Thursday had given ‘B’ form to Niyaz Sheikh to contest from Hangal on party symbol, on Friday, it announced the candidature of 33-year-old Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi for the Sindgi seat. As a precursor In a release, JD(S) said that the choice of a young and educated woman to contest bypolls was a “precursor to the party’s promise of fielding at least 30-35 women in the Assembly elections.” Ms. Niyaz holds a masters’ degree. Mr. Sheikh, 35, was earlier associated with the Congress and joined the party in June. He is an engineer by profession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byelections-jds-fields-muslims/article36787024.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Book release today||‘Land, lust and audiotapes — a political thriller’, written by senior journalist Ramakrishna Upadhya and published by Anu Prakashana, will be released in the city on Saturday. The event will be held at the Bharat Scouts and Guides Auditorium, Palace Road, at 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-release-today/article36787001.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Father, sons-in-law held in suicide pact case||The city police have arrested three men — Shankar and his two sons-in-law, Praveen and Shrikant — booking them for abetment to suicide in a case where four adult family ended lives. The bodies of Shankar’s wife Bharati and her three adult children, were found at their Byadarahalli residence on September 17. The police also found the body of a nine-month-old baby boy, who was allegedly strangled to death. Shankar’s three children — Sinchana, Sindhurani and Madhusagar — left separate death notes, detailing harassment by Shankar. Sinchana and Sindhurani, had separated from their husbands over marital disputes and had also blamed their husbands for pushing them to take the extreme step. Based on the notes, the Byadarahalli police booked the three for abetment to suicide and arrested them on Friday. The nine-month-old baby boy, who was initially suspected to have died of starvation, was killed by asphyxiation, autopsy report said, pushing the police to book the four dead adults of the house for murder.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/father-sons-in-law-held-in-suicide-pact-case/article36787003.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A shot in the arm for old-age homes||On the occasion of International Day for Older Persons, the State announced that it would increase the financial aid allocated for running old-age homes. The amount has been almost doubled, from the current Rs. 8 lakh per old-age home to Rs. 15 lakh. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai made the announcement while addressing a gathering at a function held to mark the occasion. He also launched a national senior citizen helpline (14567).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-old-age-homes/article36787004.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||11-year-old boy has fatal fall from terrace of apartment complex||An 11-year-old boy, Gagan, fell to his death from the terrace of the apartment he resided in at Hosakerehalli on Thursday. Gagan lived with his parents Pradeep and Arti in their eleventh-floor flat at Sobha Valley View Apartment. His parents had left the flat for an hour, leaving him alone. When they returned home, they could not find him. When they went searching to the terrace, they spotted Gagan on the balcony of the fifth floor. “When they reached him, they found that he was dead,” said a police source. The police have registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-year-old-boy-has-fatal-fall-from-terrace-of-apartment-complex/article36787016.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panchamasali quota issue: State govt. gets a breather||In a breather for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Panchamasali seer Basava Jaya Mritunjaya Swamiji has said that the proposed agitation of the community demanding 2-A classification in Other Backward Classes (OBC) category will be put off by three months. He announced this after a meeting with the Chief Minister in Bengaluru on Friday, attended by PWD Minister C.C. Patil, among others. Earlier, the seer had threatened to relaunch the agitation from October 1. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Bommai said the government was committed to the issue and would expedite the process as soon as the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission submits its report. “The Chief Minister has assured us that based on the report of the Backward Classes Commission, the government will take a decision within three months. We are hopeful of a positive decision and have decided to suspend the indefinite agitation. However the awareness campaign through ‘Pratijnya Panchayat’ will continue in all Assembly segments,” the seer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasali-quota-issue-state-govt-gets-a-breather/article36787025.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will join BJP: Sandesh Nagaraj||Kannada film producer and JD(S) MLC S. Nagaraj (Sandesh Nagaraj) on Friday expressed his desire to join the BJP. He visited the State BJP office on Friday said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and former CM B.S. Yediyurappa have to take the final call. “I have not been in touch with the JD(S) for the last one-and-a-half years, but I am a JD(S) legislator till January 5, 2022,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-join-bjp-sandesh-nagaraj/article36787026.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 589 cases, 13 fatalities||Karnataka on Friday reported 589 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,76,589. Bengaluru Urban reported 221 cases and five deaths. With 13 deaths overall, the toll rose to 37,807. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 887 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,26,284. The State now has 12,469 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.46%, the case fatality rate was 2.20%. As many as 1,26,932 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-589-cases-13-fatalities/article36787005.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elected||K. Syama Raju and Vineet Verma have been elected president and vice-president of Karnataka Tourism Society (KTS) unanimously. According to a release, the other officer-bearers and committee members are: S. Mahalingaiah (secretary), Manoj Mathew (joint secretary), Amish Desai (treasurer), Ayappa Somaiah, H. Jagadeesh, Radhakrishna Holla, G.K. Shetty, and P.C. Rao(members).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elected/article36787015.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 booked over death||Two persons have been booked for abetting suicide in connection with the death of actor Soujanya on Thursday. Acting on a complaint filed by her father Prabhu Madappa, the police have booked another actor and his assistant. Madappa has alleged that the actor was harassing his daughter and trying to force her to marry him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-booked-over-death/article36787012.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC to operate 100 more buses||Starting Monday, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation will run an additional 100 buses on various routes for the benefit of students and other commuters. In a press release, the BMTC said it has been gradually increasing services after the government lifted lockdown restrictions. At present, it is operating 4,953 buses. However, most of its AC buses are still off the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-to-operate-100-more-buses/article36787006.ece
02 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Decision soon on shrine issue, says Minister||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said that the government will take a suitable decision on Sree Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in the wake of the recent Karnataka High Court ruling. He told presspersons in Chikkamagaluru on Friday that he had not yet gone through the judgment copy. The Law Department would be consulted for the future course of action. The High Court, in its judgment on Monday, quashed the Government Order which had favoured the appointment of Mujawar for conducting religious practices at the cave shrine in Chikkamagaluru taluk. Now the court has directed the State government to relook into the issue without referring to the report of the high-level committee which was constituted during the Congress rule. Protest A few pro-Hindutva activists, led by a seer, visited the shrine on Thursday. They demanded that the seer be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum. They staged a dharna as the officers did not consider their demand. They raised slogans against the district administration. Many devotees visited the shrine on the occasion and it is said they held bhajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-soon-on-shrine-issue-minister/article36787348.ece
02 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Wife, children arrested in connection with man’s murder||Thirthahalli police have arrested five persons in connection with the discovery of a charred body in a car near Mittugodu on September 28. Shivamogga Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said the deceased was identified as Vinod, 45, of Achapura in Sagar taluk. The accused include his wife, two sons, his brother and a nephew. They hatched a conspiracy to murder him on September 25. They purchased petrol at Anandapura on September 26. Late in the evening, they allegedly killed Vinod by hitting him with an iron rod. They took the body in Vinod’s car to Hunasekoppa near Mittugodu. They set the car on fire using the petrol. Police believe that Vinod had an extra-marital affair that had led to differences in the family. Police have booked cases against the accused on the charge of murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wife-children-arrested-in-connection-with-mans-murder/article36787349.ece
02 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will help coffee planters’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said the State government will stand by coffee planters, facing hardship in the present times, and ensure they get suitable relief. He told presspersons after inaugurating Coffee Day celebrations at Halebidu in Belur taluk on Friday that growers had been contributing to the nation’s economy in a big way. “People like Siddarth Hegde made Indian coffee popular worldwide. He boosted the export of coffee and he will be remembered by the coffee growing community.” Belur MLA K.S. Lingesh, Hassan District Planters’ Association president T.C. Ananta Subba Rao and Karnataka Growers Federation president H.T. Mohan Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-will-help-coffee-planters/article36787347.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Efforts on to create global market for farm produce’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that the Union government is making all out efforts to create a global market for agricultural produce of the country. Speaking at the 35th Foundation Day of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Dharwad on Friday, Mr. Joshi said farm scientists, the varsity and experts from the field should join hands with the government in this regard. He said that the UAS and farm experts should conduct a study on the demand for the country’s agricultural produce in various countries and based on it prepare a coordinated plan for promoting cultivation of such crops. Pointing out that although there had been an increase in the agricultural production, the contribution of the sector to the country’s GDP had declined by 14% to 15%, Mr. Joshi stressed upon the need for proper analysis for understanding the problems of the farm sector and coming out with solutions. “The government’s focus is on construction of cold storage, Krishi Samman Yojana, and management of demand and supply chain. Agri start-ups are being encouraged through smart apps. Food processing units and small food units are being provided subsidy. The government has earmarked Rs. 20 crore for pisciculture and Rs. 13 crore to contain foot and mouth disease,” he said. The Minister clarified that the minimum support scheme would continue without any hassles for the benefit of farmers. Taking exception to the move of setting up new university for each discipline, Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti said such moves were aimed at pleasing some people. He said at a time when the farmers were facing hardships due to climate change, the government should focus on mitigating their hardships and come up with solutions to resolve issues that affect the farm sector, he said. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil emphasised on the need for honest attempts to achieve Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of doubling farm income through food processing and branding of farm products. Highlighting the significance of farming, he called on faculty members to share their knowledge with farmers and help make farming more viable. Vice-Chancellor of UAS-Dharwad M.B. Chett, MLC S.V. Sankanur, and others were present. MLA Amrut Desai presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-create-global-market-for-farm-produce/article36787205.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Governing council meet organised||The governing council meeting of GM Institute of Technology, Davangere, was held recently. Council chairman G.M. Lingaraju and other board members discussed improving the quality of education, skill development, research, academic excellence, MoU with industries, placements, and related matters, principal of GMIT Y. Vijayakumar said in press release. The meeting also discussed the upgrading GMIT to a private university. Council members K. Divyanand, Jacob Crasta, Vidyashankar, Shashidhar, P.B. Kottur, S. Ramachandra, K.M. Subramanya, Tejaswi Kattimani, Anitkumar, L. Raji, G.P. Mallikarjun, and others were present, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/governing-council-meet-organised/article36787206.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||IIT-Dh signs MoU with SDM University||To promote research and innovation, Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara (SDM) University signed a memorandum of understanding with Indian Institute of Technology – Dharwad (IIT-Dh). IIT-Dharwad director P. Seshu and SDM University VC Niranjan Kumar signed the MoU recently. Both emphasised the need for collaborations across disciplines. They said using technological advancement to achieve easily accessible and affordable healthcare services was crucial and said both the institutions were committed to working in synergy to improve the socio-economic landscape of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iit-dh-signs-mou-with-sdm-university/article36787208.ece
02 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Save Osho Ashram’ campaign launched||Taking exception to what they termed as attempts by some trustees of Osho Rajaneesh Ashram in Pune, devotees of the ashram launched ‘Save Osho Ashram’ campaign in Dharwad. Speaking to mediapersons in Dharwad on Friday, ashram convener Gopal Bharathi alleged that some foreign trustees had failed to maintain accounts and misused donations. Now, claiming to have incurred huge losses, some trustees were trying to sell properties in Pune worth hundreds of crores. He said the campaign would be held in Hubballi on Saturday and at Davangere on Sunday. Signatures of devotees who oppose the move to sell ashram properties would be sent to the trustees and the Maharashtra government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/save-osho-ashram-campaign-launched/article36787209.ece
02 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Unrelenting battle against the bottle||On January 30, 2017, thousands of rural women in 18 districts of Karnataka marched to the offices of the Excise Department in their regions with placards that read “Give us back our Gandhi”. The department that promotes sale of liquor has no right to display pictures of Gandhi who fought for complete prohibition, they argued. Devastation caused The women, organised under Grameena Koolikaarmikara Sanghatane (GRAKOOS), a rural labourers’ organisation, have been fighting for prohibition since 2015 and are slowly gathering stream. They have been highlighting the devastation liquor has caused particularly to rural households, affecting women and children the most. Among their biggest mobilisations was the padayatra to Bengaluru in 2019. Around 3,000 people, mostly women, from different parts of the State started from Chitradurga and walked 210 km for 12 days to reach Bengaluru on Gandhi’s death anniversary. A woman, Renukamma, from a village near Lingsugur, lost her life in the course of the long march. The women then resorted to Jal Satyagraha at Kudalasangama on the eve of Gandhi’s death anniversary in 2020. Over 800 women from different parts of the State stood in waist-deep water at the convergence of the Krishna and Malaprabha rivers holding high placards displaying anti-liquor slogans. A restart “We could not do much after Jal Satyagraha due to COVID-19 restrictions. However, with the restrictions lifted now, we will restart the movement with more vigour. Hearing our petition, the High Court of Karnataka has ordered curbing illegal sale of liquor in the State. However, the government has done hardly anything in this regard. We will re-launch our movement with a contempt case against the government,” says Swarna Bhatt, one of the leaders of the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unrelenting-battle-against-the-bottle/article36787021.ece
02 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi set to welcome Kharge today||Congress veteran and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge is all set to get a rousing welcome on his arrival in Kalaburagi district (former constituency) for a three-day visit on Saturday. It is his first visit to the district after being nominated as the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha in February. The entire city, including the main streets, have been covered with buntings, hoardings, and arches bearing images of Mr. Kharge. Local Congress leaders, including Chief Whip of the Opposition in the Assembly Ajay Singh, MLA Priyank Kharge, the former Minister Sharanprakash Patil, and District Congress Committee president Jagdev Guttedar inspected the arrangements at Jai Bhavani Function Hall — the venue of the felicitation programme to be held here on Saturday. Mr. Kharge will arrive at Kalaburagi Airport by 9.45 a.m. and participate in the felicitation programme. He will attend local programmes in the district for the next two days and leave for Bengaluru on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-set-to-welcome-kharge-today/article36787210.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Focus on plastic waste recycling’||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara on Friday said gram panchayat members need to focus more on collection and recycling of plastic waste. He was speaking after launching an awareness campaign against plastic waste during the Swachh Bharat Campaign, jointly organised by the ZP, Swachh Bharat Mission, Kavalamudur Gram Panchayat and Dakshina Kannada District and Bantwal Taluk Working Journalists’ Associations at Kavalamudur. Mr. Kumara said there should not be unnecessary opposition toaards handling and recycling plastic waste. People should not forget their duty while demanding their rights. Plastic waste could scientifically recycled, he said, urging panchayat members to clear doubts among people if they have any. Complimenting Journalists’ Associations for their social concern, Mr. Kumara said the programme was not just a namesake; but saw follow-up action. Taluk Journalists’ Association, led by its president Prashanth Punjalakatte, offered rice in return for plastic waste collected by residents to encourage waste disposal. While about 26 kg waste was collected during the campaign, 260 kg rice was provided in return to 43 residents. Besides members of Journalists’ Associations, gram panchayat members, Anganwadi volunteers, ASHA volunteers and residents participated in the programme. Gram Panchayat president Jayalakshmi, taluk panchayat EO Rajanna, district information officer H.G. Raviraj, District Journalists’ Association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-plastic-waste-recycling/article36787458.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Workshop for local body elected representatives||The government has organised daylong ‘Antyodaya’ workshop for the elected representatives of urban and rural local bodies of Dakshina Kannada to provide information on various schemes of the Social Welfare, Backward Classes Welfare and Scheduled Tribes’ Welfare departments on October 4 at Bantwal. Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari told reporters here on Friday that the Dakshina Kannada district administration, the zilla panchayat, his departments, and Scheduled Tribes’ Welfare Department were jointly organising the programme at Bantara Bhavana from 10 a.m. The government has proposed to conduct such workshops in all districts across the State and one such workshop was already conducted in Udupi district. Inauguration Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would greet the workshop while Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayanaswamy will inaugurate the workshop on October 4. Transport and ST Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Fisheries Minister S. Angara, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Bantwal MLA Rajesh U. Naik and others would be present. Two sessions Mr. Poojari said while the morning session includes the inaugural programme and information session, the afternoon session comprises question-answer programme. The Minister urged all elected members of urban and rural local bodies of the district to attend the workshop. The Minister said gram panchayat members attending the workshop would be paid travelling allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-for-local-body-elected-representatives/article36787466.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State award for social service presented||S. Janardhana, a retired lecturer and former president of Maravanthe Gram Panchayat in Udupi district, was conferred the State-level Award for social service in Bengaluru on Friday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai presented the award to Mr. Janardhana during the World Senior Citizens’ Day celebrations organised by the Department for Welfare of the Disabled and Empowerment of Senior Citizens at Ravindra Kalakshetra. Speaking after presenting the awards, Mr. Bommai said the government, society, system and family, the four pillars, should support senior citizens. Senior citizens should look after their health, both physical and mental. They are oceans of experience and the government as well as society should make use of their experience, he said. The Department confers awards to senior citizens who have rendered excellent service to society various fields every year and has chosen 10 personalities this year. After retiring as a lecturer in English with the PU education department, Mr. Janardhana engaged in social service and became a member of the Maravanthe GP, his village. Not stopping at this, he went on to utilise his knowledge and experience to improve rural life and was a resource person to train rural local body members under the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-award-for-social-service-presented/article36787452.ece
02 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Inayat Art Gallery’s silver jubilee today||The silver jubilee celebrations and inauguration of the renovated Inayat Art Gallery, established by artist Liyakat Ali in memory of his father in Udupi will be held on Saturday. Artist Saku Pangala told reporters in Udupi on Thursday that Energy, Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar would inaugurate the celebrations in the presence of MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat and Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy president Rahim Uchchila at 11 a.m. The occasion would also witness commencement of an exhibition of selected 60 artworks from 30 well-known artists that would last till October 4. The exhibition would be open between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. at the Gallery located on Katte Acharya Marga in Udupi. Mr. Ali, a physically-challenged artist and a retired bank employee, established the gallery in memory of his father. The gallery has witnessed several art exhibitions thereby promoting budding artists. The renovated gallery is spacious and can accommodate more works, he said. Mr. Ali has also organised several art competitions and is known for art for religious harmony by his beautiful depiction of Hindu gods through his artwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inayat-art-gallerys-silver-jubilee-today/article36787464.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||October 4 last date to submit entries for The Hindu-MCF contests||The last date for submission of entries forThe Hindu-MCF inter-school painting and patriotic solo singing competition is October 4. The organisers have urged schools and students to participate in the contest in large numbers. Open to students within the jurisdiction of Mangaluru City Corporation, the twin contests are being organised to create awareness about Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav (75 years of Indian Independence). Students can compete in junior (classes 4 to 7) and senior (classes 8 to 10) categories. Topics The topics for the painting competition for junior category are ‘75th Independence Day celebration’ or ‘Save environment’ or ‘My favourite freedom fighter’. Topics for senior category are ‘Unity in diversity’ or ‘India’s youth in development’ or ‘Indian agricultural scenario’. Paintings have to be drawn on A3 drawing sheets using water colour while crayons may be used for outlining. Registration is free. The final drawings should be submitted to their respective school offices before October 4. For the patriotic solo singing competition, participants may record a video of four minutes without any background music in Kannada or Hindi and upload it with the details of the contestant, including name and contact number on Google Drive and send the linkmjmthehindu@gmail.combefore October 4. Prizes will be distributed to winners on October 7 at a venue to be informed later. Participants will get participation certificates through their schools. For information, call Surendra K. Shetty on 9448279124, M.S. Madhav on 9035566695 or The Hindu office on 0824-2417575.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/october-4-last-date-to-submit-entries-for-the-hindu-mcf-contests/article36787462.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Flex hoarding displayed at Kadri while country fights plastic waste menace||At a time when the country is geared up to fight the plastic menace during this month starting from Gandhi Jayanthi, a large flex hoarding purportedly issued by a Mangaluru City Corporation councillor, has come up at Kadri Shivbagh on Friday. Claiming to have been issued by Kadri Shivbagh councillor Kavya Nataraj Alva, the hoarding congratulates Prime Minister Narendra Modi for introducing over 220 pro-people schemes. Bearing the pictures of Mr. Modi, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Ms. Alva, the hoarding was affixed to electricity junction poles right next to the Kadri MESCOM office. While attempts to reach Ms. Alva did not yield any result, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said he would get the issue examined. The Union and State governments have banned use of plastic material, including flex hoardings, to ward off plastic waste menace. Local bodies, including city corporations, municipalities and gram panchayats were mandated to prevent use of declared plastic items and also to remove them. Both the governments have launched a mega Swatch Bharath campaign from Saturday specifically focusing on plastic waste menace. A host of programmes are lined up for the day that would continue throughout the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flex-hoarding-displayed-at-kadri-while-country-fights-plastic-waste-menace/article36787457.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Class X student to get new house today||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday, Mokshita, a Class X student from Government Secondary School at Irde Bettampady village of Puttur taluk, will get the keys of the new house that has been built in two months. During a house visit by headmaster Narayan Nayak and other teachers in July, they noticed that the girl was living in a thatched hut covered by tarpaulin and there was no electricity connection. Following discussion with Puttur Block Education Officer Lokesh and other officials, Mr. Narayan decided to seek funds from donors for construction of a new house. Mohammed Haji Kukkuvalli, district president of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, came forward to build the house. A wing of Rotary club came forward to build toilet. A few more people, including teachers, also contributed towards construction of the house. Foundation stone for construction of the new house, which was on the place adjoining the old structure, was laid on August 15. The house has now come up with 570 sq. ft floor area. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor will hand over the keys of the new house to Mokshita and her family members on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/class-x-student-to-get-new-house-today/article36787468.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC launches blood centre van||The Kasturba Medical College Hospital in Manipal on Friday launched the dedicated blood centre van on the occasion of National Voluntary Blood Donation Day. Speaking at the programme, Dean of College Sharath Kumar Rao said donating blood without any desire is an important part of humanity in the process of saving lives. MAHE Director (General Services) Col. B. Prakash Chandra called upon all organisations to motivate their staff for blood donation. The hospital felicitated Udupi City unit of BJP Yuva Morcha, Mogaveera Yuva Sanghatane, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-launches-blood-centre-van/article36787459.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Follow norms during Dasara’||District in-charge Minister S. Angra on Friday said Dasara festivities at the Kateel Durgaparameshwari, Mangaladevi, Kudroli Gokarnanatha, and other temples in the district have to be conducted as per the COVID-19 prevention norms that were in force last year. Chairing a meeting of the Dharmika Parishad at the district office here, Mr. Angara said temple authorities should ensure devotees follow social distance and wear masks when they come for darshan and other sevas. The temples should create awareness about vaccination and also make arrangements for vaccination, he said. He cautioned that the government would be forced to enforce lockdown if there was a spurt in COVID-19 cases. People should take enough precautions to ensure that the situation did not go out of control, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/follow-norms-during-dasara/article36787460.ece
02 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly||Shashidhar Pai Maroor was elected as president of the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry for 2021–22 at the 81st general meeting of the Chamber on Friday. While M. Ganesh Kamath was elected vice-president, Abdur Rahman Musaba was elected the honourary treasurer and Nissar Fakeer Mohammed and Ananthesh V. Prabhu were elected honourary secretaries, according to a release from the Chamber.   The Udupi Zilla Panchayat has proposed to undertake a hygiene survey across the district to collate data so as to design plans to improve the living conditions. ZP CEO Y. Naveen Bhat in a release said the survey would involve collection of information on use of individual toilets and disposal of waste after toilet pit gets filled up, waste disposal, handling of liquid waste, and related information in rural areas. Awareness about individual toilets, prohibition on manual scavenging, dry waste handling, etc., will also be created during the survey. He urged general public to provide proper information to enumerators during the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36787454.ece
02 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hamsalekha, Praveen Godkhindi to perform at palace events||The list of artists performing at the cultural events to be held on the palace premises here on the occasion of Dasara festivities has been announced. The palace is the sole venue for the cultural events as no other music and dance programmes are being organised this year in view of low-key festivities. No artist from other States has been invited this year as opportunity has been given to the local artistes. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be inaugurating the events at the palace and also present the Sangeeth Samman award on October 7 at 6 p.m. Daily, the events begin at 6 p.m. and conclude by 9 p.m., in view of the night curfew which is in force from 9 p.m. On the inaugural day, artists from the Prabhat Group in Bengaluru will present Karnataka Vaibhava, a dance drama, at 7 p.m. On day two, recitation of folk songs by Malavalli Mahadevaswamy and Appagere Thimmaraju, violin concert by Hosahalli Venkataramu and team, and “Kannada Dindima” by Y.K. Muddukrishna and team will be held. H.N. Bhaskar and troupe will present Sangeeth Durbar on October 9 at 6 p.m. This will be followed by Desi Samskruthi Habba by music director Hamsalekha and team at 7 p.m. Amoga Varsha Drum Collective from Bengaluru will be presenting an ensemble of various instruments at 6 p.m. followed by ghazals by Shanthala Vattam and team at 6.45 p.m. on October 10. Singer Kavita Malnad and team will perform “Madhura Madhuravee Manjulagana '' at 7.30 p.m. the same day. Artistes from other districts have also been given an opportunity to perform as Shreya Prahlad Kulkarni from Bagalkot will perform a dance presentation at 7.30 p.m. Sheshagiri Rao and team from Raichur will recite Dasavani at 8.15 p.m. on October 11. At 6 p.m. the same day, the celebrated police band of Mysuru will present a concert. On October 12, Praveen Godkhindi and Shadaz Godkhindi will present flute jugalbandi at 8 p.m. Prior to this event, Adithi Prahlad will present light music at 6 p.m. and Muddumohan and team will present Hindustani music at 7 p.m. On the final day, Jayathirtha Mevundi will present a Hindustani concert at 6 p.m. followed by Ranga Geethe by Jayashree B. and team at 7 p.m. and dance drama by Sridhar Jain at 8 p.m. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar and Minister for Energy and Kannada and Culture Sunil Kumar released the posters of Dasara cultural events at the palace, during the launch of Dasara website here on Friday. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hamsalekha-praveen-godkhindi-to-perform-at-palace-events/article36787343.ece
02 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Promoting rooftop solar power systems||Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers and New and Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba on Friday launched an initiative of harnessing solar energy in K.R. constituency where more than 5,000 households are said to have evinced interest in installing roof-top solar power generation systems. Minister for Energy and Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar was present during the launch of the initiative in the presence of MP Pratap Simha, MLA S.A. Ramdas and others. The households will be supplying the surplus power generated to the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC). Mr. Ramdas said an MoU will be entered into with the CESC for supplying power for the next 25 years once the installation is done. The systems would be installed with 40 per cent subsidy from the government with 10 per cent contribution from the beneficiaries. The rest would be sourced through loans from banks. On the occasion, the Union Minister also launched the initiative of promoting e-vehicles. The people of the constituency will get support if they wish to go for green vehicles, and also charging facilities in the constituency, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/promoting-rooftop-solar-power-systems/article36787345.ece
02 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC to prune trees endangering public safety||The death of a 43-year-old person when a tree collapsed on the autorickshaw he was driving near Five Lights Circle during the rains lashing the city on Thursday evening has brought the roadside trees endangering public safety under sharp focus. The tree fell on the autorickshaw of Ejaz Ahmed when he was proceeding from St. Philomena’s Church towards Five Lights Circle with a passenger. The passenger, however, had a miraculous escape as the tree fell on the front portion of the vehicle. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Additional Commissioner M.J .Roopa told The Hindu that the tree was among those identified by the civic body for uprooting by the Forest Department. “It is a very unfortunate incident”, she said while adding that the matter was brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who has approved sanction of compensation to the family of the deceased from the Calamity Relief Fund. A cheque of Rs. 5 lakh was presented to the family of Ejaz Ahmed at his residence in Haleem Nagar, Bannimantap, on Friday. The MCC will also consider providing source of livelihood to the family of the deceased. The MCC has drawn up a plan to prune the branches of the trees posing a threat to public safety. About 3,000 trees have been identified by the Horticulture Department of MCC for pruning and the list has been submitted to the Forest Department. Though the MCC can prune trees to the extent of 3 feet, it is not empowered to either cut the trunk, large branches or uproot the trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-to-prune-trees-endangering-public-safety/article36787346.ece
02 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||411 kin of COVID-19 victims seek ex-gratia relief||As many as 411 families of those who died of COVID-19 have sought ex-gratia relief in Mandya. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok told the district administration on Friday to process the applications and release relief after verifying the information. In Mandya, 648 people had died of COVID-19. An ex-gratia relief of Rs. 1.50 lakh, including Rs. 1 lakh from the State government and Rs. 50,000 from the Centre, will be paid to the next kin of the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/411-kin-of-covid-19-victims-seek-ex-gratia-relief/article36787339.ece
02 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||More schools join AYUSH campaign||“Namma AYUSH, Namma Swasthya”, the initiative of sensitising children on the benefits of Ayurveda and medicinal plants in schools, is continuing in Mysuru. Medicinal plants were planted at the government high school in Doddakanya village on Friday. BEO Malleshwari, who planted the saplings, lauded the Government Ayurveda Medical College for taking up the initiative in schools of Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-schools-join-ayush-campaign/article36787340.ece
02 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jamboo Savari to begin at 5 p.m.||The Dasara festivities will be inaugurated atop the Chamundi Hills on October 7 between 8.15 a.m. and 8.45 a.m. Like last year, the festivities will be a simple affair with a limited audience to be allowed to watch the inaugural event. Former Chief Minister S.M. Krishna is inaugurating the Nada Habba in the presence of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other dignitaries on the premises of Sri Chamundeshwari Temple. The Nandi Dhwaja puja before the Vijayadashami procession will be held on October 15 between 4.36 p.m. and 4.46 p.m. This will be followed by flower offerings to the statue of the presiding deity placed inside the golden howdah, between 5 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. The Jamboo Savari is confined to the palace premises in view of the pandemic situation. The district administration has taken steps to live stream all major events including the inauguration and the Jamboo Savari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jamboo-savari-to-begin-at-5-pm/article36787341.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Arrears to be collected in October-November||The KERC approved an average increase in tariff by 30 paise per unit for all electricity supply companies (Escoms) for the ongoing financial year in June, which was an average increase of 3.84%. The Escoms had sought an average increase of Rs. 1.35 per unit accounting for 17.31% increase. In addition, consumers will also have to pay the fuel cost adjustment charges from this month. In accordance with the provisions of the KERC (Fuel Cost Adjustment Charges) Regulations, 2013, and amendments thereon, the commission, “having recognised the decrease (savings) in the fuel cost adjustment charges along with the decrease in the overall power purchase cost during the first quarter of FY22,” has allowed the Escoms to refund/ adjust the fuel cost adjustment charges per unit of sale in bills to be issued during the billing quarter from October 1 to December 31. The charges range from 5 to 8 paise per unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrears-to-be-collected-in-october-november/article36787000.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Dasara website launched||The website has a gallery giving glimpses of Mysuru Dasara with some rare photos from the past. The website contains details on tourism, besides a write-up on the history of ‘Nada Habba’. He added that all precautions would be taken for the safety of people during the festivities, with focus on ensuring that the pandemic remained under control. Earlier, the Minister took part in a breakfast arranged for mahouts and kavadis of Dasara elephants and the forest staff on the palace premises. Mr. Somashekar served food and appreciated the efforts of the staff in training of elephants for the big day. Mr. Somashekar, who later took part in a programme to release the posters of cultural events along with Minister for Kannada and Culture and Energy V. Sunil Kumar, also held a meeting to review the preparations done so far for the festivities. Illumination Officials of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation told the meeting that a 100-km-long illumination would be done this year using LED bulbs. As many as 80 circles and traffic junctions across the city would be specially illuminated, the meeting was told.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-dasara-website-launched/article36787351.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||33 jockeys to come out of Kambala academy||Apart from warm-up exercises, the trainees have been trained in handling buffaloes and other native skills involved in Kambala races. Trainees have also been exposed to running on synthetic tracks in Swaraj Maidan, Mr. D’Souza said. Another Academy director Seetaram Shetty said training is free while the academy spends about Rs. 35,000 on each trainee. The academy is using 42 ‘Kambala’ buffaloes offered by Kambala enthusiasts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts for the training and spends around Rs. 4.5 lakh to take care of buffaloes. Ajith Kumar Jain, a trainer and a former Kambala jockey, said the trainees need to work on the basic skills provided during training and make a mark in Kambala. “I worked for six years to be recognised as a jockey in Kambala events. Hope to see these young jockeys in the field at the earliest,” he said. As many as 60 people trained at the academy have made a mark in Kambala events so far, he further added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/33-jockeys-to-come-out-of-kambala-academy/article36787461.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hopeful opening||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hopeful-opening/article36787014.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||It was the same leopard||As it was not sure whether there were two leopards or the same one, the scat of the leopard was sent to a Hyderabad laboratory for testing. Meanwhile the forest personnel had continued their vigil around Nrupatunga Betta and the Deputy Commissioner had ordered for closure of 12 schools in the locality as a precautionary measure. On Friday, the laboratory report confirmed it was the same leopard. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar tweeted that leopard scat samples collected from Nrupatunga Betta in Hubballi and Kavalageri were of the same leopard as per the DNA report from CCMB (Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology), Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-was-the-same-leopard/article36787212.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||engagements for Oct 2||MANGALURU  Nehru Yuva Kendra: District in-charge Minister S. Angara inaugurates Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel flags off Fit India Freedom Run 2.0, MLA Vedavyasa Kamath presides, Mangala Stadium, 7 a.m.  Social and Backward Classes Welfare Departments: Social and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari launches Cleanliness Campaign at boys hostels of the departments, Kadri, 7.30 a.m.  Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists Association: Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra inaugurates ‘Brand Mangaluru’ friendly cricket tournament, association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje presides, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management Ground, Adyar, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements-for-oct-2/article36787455.ece
02 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Caring for man’s best friend||It was around 4 p.m. on September 29, K. Sajeev Kumar received a phone call from an unknown number informing him about an accident involving a pregnant stray dog at Aroor. Mr. Kumar who was at Thanneermukkom at the time rushed to Aroor. Seeing the canine writhing in pain, he carried it to his vehicle and drove to a veterinary clinic at Changanassery, run by a retired government veterinary doctor. A scan revealed injuries to the dog’s spinal cord, which will take some time to heal. After being discharged from the hospital, he took the animal to his home at Vayalar near Cherthala for providing care. “She is pregnant with seven puppies. The veterinary doctors are less hopeful of saving the babies in her womb but are optimistic of saving the dog. Another checkup is scheduled for Monday, which will determine the best course of treatment including whether to conduct a surgery,” says Mr. Kumar, a dog catcher under the Animal Birth Control programme of the Alappuzha District Panchayat. She is not the only stray dog currently under his care. Another canine is recuperating from a broken foreleg and hindleg sustained in an accident near Pazhaveedu temple in Alappuzha last month. Mr. Kumar, 51, has been involved in animal welfare activities such as providing care for ill and injured dogs, adopting abandoned ones, feeding strays, removing carcasses of dead animals from roads and so on for the past five years. “I don't think I am doing anything special other than fulfilling my responsibility. Animals have as much right to live as human beings, he sayss. The stray dogs deserve a better deal free of suffering. They deserve more love and affection,” he says, adding that the approach of the public towards strays should change. Provided food During the COVID-19-induced lockdown, Mr. Kumar ensured canines on the streets of Vayalar, Kuthiathode, Kodamthuruth, Thuravoor, Thycattussery and nearby places did not go hungry by feeding them. He fed cooked rice and chicken parts to around 100 dogs every day during the lockdown. The Animal Husbandry Department recently honoured him with an award for animal welfare activities. The prize carried a purse of Rs. 10,000 and citation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caring-for-mans-best-friend/article36787297.ece
02 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Flood victims get house keys||Keys of 45 houses built as part of the Sri Sathya Sai Vasthudhara project at Ambalappuzha were handed over to beneficiaries on Friday. It was virtually inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijayan appreciated Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation's (SSSSO) untiring efforts to spread love and concern to humanity by serving the needy in all walks of life. SSSSO, Kerala initiated a project of constructing 65 houses for the 2018 flood victims of Amayida Colony at Ambalappuzha. It was taken up as a combined project of Sri Sathya Sai Trust, Kerala and TATA Trusts. Out of the 65 houses, 14 were built by Sri Sathya Sai Trust, Kerala. The houses were handed over to the beneficiaries in December 2019. In the second phase, TATA Trusts built 45 houses. H. Salam, MLA, Collector A. Alexandar, DPC G. Jaidev, E. Mukundan, member, Sri Sathya Sai National Council, Satheesh Nair, convenor, Sri Sathya Sai Trust, Kerala, Manoj Madhavan, State president, SSSSO, Nimish Pandya, All India president, SSSSO spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-victims-get-house-keys/article36787301.ece
02 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Beaches, parks to reopen in Alappuzha||Beaches and parks in Alappuzha district will be reopened from October 4. District Collector A. Alexander has issued an order in this regard on Friday. Beaches and parks were closed in May due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Officials said that the decision to allow people on beaches and parks was part of the phased reopening of the tourism sector. The District Disaster Management Authority has issued a set of guidelines for entry of people and activities on beaches and parks. People with COVID-19 symptoms and other diseases should not enter beaches and parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beaches-parks-to-reopen-in-alappuzha/article36787302.ece
02 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||‘Crop destruction a major issue’||Minister for Forest and Wildlife A.K. Saseendran has said that long-term measures, not temporary solutions, are required to counter man-animal conflicts in the district. Jagrata samitis Speaking at the meeting of the representatives of farmers' organisations at the collectorate on Friday, he said that the government will set up Janakeeya Jagrata Samitis which were already implemented in other districts in Idukki also. The Minister said that the meeting with the farmers was arranged on the basis of the large number of suggestions for implementing the plan to counter man-animal conflicts. The farmers’ organisations deliberated at the meeting the large scale crop destruction by wild animals especially on the border area with Tamil Nadu. The Minister said that crop destruction by wild animals is a major issue in the district and culling them is not a practical solution. He said that the three-tier local bodies should take steps to make protective fencing by allocating funds in the annual plans. The Jagratha samithis should be strengthened and information passed to the public on the movements of wild animals. Licensed guns A panel of those who have licensed guns will be prepared and they can shoot the wild boar entering the cultivated areas after informing forest officials and the respective local body. The bodies of the wild boar should be disposed of in the presence of Forest Department officials. The Minister also gave direction to the District Collector to implement it from next week onwards. The Minister said that the farmers’ representation on the crop insurance scheme under State and union governments was poor. Maximum compensation Farmers should take care to get maximum compensation for crop losses, the Minister said. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, Dean Kuriakose, MP, among others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crop-destruction-a-major-issue/article36787300.ece
02 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Order reinstating forest officers kept on hold||The order issued by D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forest, Northern Circle, Kannur, two days ago to reinstate two forest officials, who had been under suspension in connection with the Muttil tree-felling case, has been kept in abeyance. A new order issued by Mr. Vinod Kumar on Friday said the reinstatement of V.S. Vinesh, Section Forest Officer, and E.P. Sreejith, Beat Forest Officer, of the South Wayanad Forest Division, was kept in abeyance, as the inquiry into the case was under the purview of the special investigation team and was not yet over. Hence the orders pertaining to reinstatement of the officials were kept in abeyance until further orders, Mr. Vinod Kumar said. Allowed vehicle to pass The duo were suspended after it was found that the officials were on duty at the forest checkpost at Lakkidi on the district border on February 3, 2021, but failed to discharge their duties. The Forest officers permitted the vehicle to cross the checkpost without any inspection.  The new order has been kept in abeyance, as the inquiry into the case is not yet over||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muttil-case-reinstatement-order-kept-in-abeyance/article36787316.ece
02 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Kuruva islands to open today||The Kuruva islands, a major eco-tourism destination in Wayanad district, will be opened to tourists on Saturday after an interval of six months. Entry was barred for tourists to the site under the South Wayanad Forest Division by the end of April owing to the second wave of COVID-19 and rise of the water level in the Kabni river during the monsoon. Kuruvadweep, a string of 64 islets spread over 1.47 sqkm, is situated near Pakkom at the confluence of the Mananthavady river and the Panamaram river, the tributaries of the Kabani, and has a unique biodiversity-rich ecosystem with a collection of rare flora and fauna. As the islets are a repository of unique plants and micro-organisms, the entry of visitors has been permitted to only 20 hectares of one of the islets, Chethalayath range forest officer K.P. Abdul samad told The Hindu.  River crossing on bamboo raft is another attraction of the destination, and two new bamboo rafts have been constructed for the purpose. There are two ticket counters functioning at Pakkom and Palvelichom. Ferry services are available at both the counters. Permission to the islet is restricted to 1,150 visitors a day. At any given time, entry is restricted to 100 persons and the visiting time is limited to two hours, Mr. Samad said. The destination will be open from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuruva-opens-to-tourists-today/article36787249.ece
02 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Hanging fence planned||In the wake of increasing elephant menace, the Kannur District Panchayat has directed forest-bordering grama panchayats to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) with the support of the Forest Department for installation of solar hanging fences as an immediate solution to the problem. P.P. Divya, president of the panchayat, said the heads of grama panchayats should meet by October 15 and submit the DPR by October 20. Ms. Divya issued the directive at a meeting of the presidents of local bodies which share a forest boundary and Forest Department officials to discuss death, accidents, and damage to crops caused in elephant attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hanging-fence-planned/article36787248.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Monson case: Cong. seeks judicial probe||Stunned initially by the barrage of questions hurled at Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, MP, over the nature of his relationship with cheating-case accused Monson Mavunkal, the Congress seems to have finally got its act together with several leaders springing to defend Mr. Sudhakaran and the party on Friday. Congress working president in the State P.T. Thomas, MLA, demanded either a probe monitored by the judiciary or the appointment of a judicial commission to carry out a holistic inquiry into the case. “The Home Department is in the dock in the case with questions being raised against former State Police Chief Loknath Behera. That calls for an independent inquiry. Considering the officer’s believed proximity to the ruling dispensation at the Centre, there’s no point in a Central agency handling the case,” he said. Benny Behanan, MP, had earlier sought a joint probe by Central and State agencies as he suspected the case to have “international ramifications.” Mr. Behanan, the former UDF convener, had also disapproved of Mr. Sudhakaran’s lack of alertness in the matter. Charge against police But Mr. Thomas wanted the judicial probe to cover every allegation that came up against the police when Mr. Behera helmed it. His proximity to the Chief Minister came to his rescue whenever he was under a cloud, Mr. Thomas said, demanding Mr. Behera’s removal as managing director of Kochi Metro Rail Ltd. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, while welcoming the police investigation, disapproved of the “media trial” that Mr. Sudhakaran has been put to over “just a photograph” and said the media should not try “to tarnish someone’s image built over a lifetime of hard work.” The Opposition would not hound anyone without solid reason and the probe should bring to justice everyone involved, even if it was the DGP or the former DGP, he said. K. Babu, deputy parliamentary party leader of the Congress in the Assembly, accused the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the government of trying to shield the police officers who came under a shadow in the case. Mr. Sudhakaran himself said he was mulling legal action against Monson as he was unsure if his name/presence had been used by him for his web of deceit. “I have sought legal opinion on this. I have gone to his place a few times thinking he was a doctor who could treat a swelling below my eye. I am in no way connected to any monetary transaction involving either Monson or Anoop, the complainant, whom I was introduced to casually,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monson-case-cong-seeks-judicial-probe/article36787337.ece
02 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Judicial probe: State moves High Court||The State government has appealed against a single judge’s order staying the functioning of the Justice V.K. Mohan Commission to probe whether any conspiracy was hatched or deliberate attempts were made to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other senior functionaries in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The order was earlier passed by Justice P.B. Sureshkumar on a writ petition filed by P. Radhakrishnan, the Deputy Director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The single judge, in his order, had noted that the question of conspiracy was to be examined by the special court supervising the investigation in the case booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act probed by the ED. In its appeal, the State argued that the decision of the single judge stalling the judicial probe into the alleged attempts to implicate some persons holding high offices in the State was not based on any cogent reasoning. The finding of the single judge that if parallel investigation and inquiries were conducted in such a case, it would impede and derail the investigation and ultimately go to the benefit of the accused lacked any reasoning, the State submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judicial-probe-state-moves-high-court/article36787323.ece
02 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Criminal proceedings no bar for obtaining passport: HC||The pendency of a criminal proceedings against a person shall not bar him/her from obtaining a passport for travelling abroad, the Kerala High Court has observed. Considering a petition moved by Thadevoose Sebastian of Thiruvananthapuram, Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas noted that when criminal proceedings are pending, the court shall grant permission for the period of travel or the period for which the passport can be issued. Balancing act Criminal trials take ages to complete. The pandemic has halted the trials in many courts. In these circumstances, the granting of permission to travel abroad is of great significance, as it will be a process of balancing the fundamental right of a citizen to travel abroad and the need to ensure the presence of the accused during trial. While considering the application, the magistrate shall consider the stage of the criminal proceedings and the duration within which the trial may take place. The criminal antecedents and past conduct of the accused and the nature and gravity of the crime shall be looked into, the judge noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/criminal-proceedings-no-bar-for-obtaining-passport-hc/article36787314.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tension as fishers protest at Vypeen||Tension prevailed for a while after 25-odd purse seine boats operated by traditional fishermen assembled in the shipping channel near the Marine Enforcement office at Vypeen following the detention of three Beypore-based boats engaged in fishing using the banned pelagic gear. Purse seine boat operators had detected and towed the boats along to the Marine Enforcement office near the jhankar jetty at Vypeen. They continued the protest even as more operators assembled along the shipping channel. Subsequently, Coastal Police personnel from Fort Kochi rushed to the spot and dispersed them in about an hour. The Fisheries Department had on Wednesday seized a boat for allegedly using the banned pelagic fishing net during a drive in the wake of widespread complaints about fishing using the banned gear. The boat named Prosper from Beypore was slapped with a fine of Rs. 2.50 lakh, and the banned fishing net worth around Rs. 2 lakh was seized. The proceeds worth Rs. 62,000 from the sale of the catch was also attached to the government. The department has formed a special squad to deal with violations of marine fishing regulations. The drive will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tension-as-fishers-protest-at-vypeen/article36787272.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three youths held with 6 kg of ganja in Kochi||In a combined operation, the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) and the Hill Palace police arrested three persons allegedly with over 6 kg of ganja from near Thripunithura on Friday. The arrested are Aravind A.K., 21, of Thripunithura, Vishnu Binu, 24, of Mulanthuruthy, and a minor. They were intercepted by sleuths after they were found moving in suspicious circumstances on motorcycles. Two motorcycles and three mobile phones were also seized from the accused who were produced in court. The public may pass information on narcotics by way of audio, video, or text to the WhatsApp number (99959-66666) of Yodhav App of the Kochi City police for fighting drug menace. It could also be shared with the Narcotics Cell Assistant Commissioner (94979-90065) or DANSAF (94979-80430). Details of informants will be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-arrested-with-over-6-kg-of-ganja/article36787273.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Teenager dies in accident||A teenager met with a tragic end after his motorcycle rammed a car at TVS Junction at Kalamassery in the early hours of Friday. The deceased was identified as P.S. Mridul, 16, of Muppathadam. The police suspect the victim was speeding. Reportedly, the parents had no clue that their son was not at home. They were under the impression that he was sleeping upstairs, and the news came as a rude shock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teenager-dies-in-accident/article36787268.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Arrested for sexual abuse||The Pothanikkad police on Friday arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing a minor girl. Bobichan Mathai, 42, of Kadavoor reportedly abused the girl waiting for bus near his shop. A team led by Inspector Noble Manual, Sub Inspector Kuriakose, Assistant Sub Inspector Shanvi Augustine, and civil police officers Ajeesh, Kuttappan, and Rasheed made the arrest. The accused was remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-for-sexual-abuse/article36787271.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Martial arts trainer arrested for sexually abusing woman||The police on Friday arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing a woman in the guise of training her in martial arts in Kochi. Ranjith, 39, of Ponnani in Malappuram has been running a martial arts and yoga training institute in a rented building on Niravath Road at Maradu in Kochi for the last three years. Victim from capital The institute was frequented by many people, and the accused used to conduct special sessions for women and sexually exploit them, the police said. The victim, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, was allegedly targeted by holding early morning sessions when she alone was trained. Ranjith had fled to Malappuram after the incident, and the police arrested him from there. Similar incident He had been arrested in the past for allegedly abusing a woman from Tamil Nadu in the same fashion. The police suspect that he may have abused many more in the same way. The accused was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/martial-arts-trainer-held/article36787264.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||9 plaints by women settled at adalat||Nine complaints were resolved at the women complaint redressal adalat held at the Fort Kochi police station on Friday. Deputy Police Commissioner (law and order) Aishwarya Dongre inaugurated what is the first of such adalats to be held in all city stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-plaints-by-women-settled-at-adalat/article36787266.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,812 test positive in Ernakulam: TPR 11.32%||As many as 1,812 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. A total of 1,762 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 44 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 11.32%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 40 included Vadakkekara (84), Kottuvally (68), Thrikkakara (56), Edathala (49), Kalamassery (47), Alangad (44), and Udayamperoor (43). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayyampuzha, Kanjoor, Thuravoor, Manjapra, Ayyappankavu, Mattancherry, Elanji, Maneed, Chakkaraparambu, Njarakkal, and Mudakuzha, according to an official release. As many as 16,013 tests were conducted on Friday, and 22,619 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1812-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-1132/article36787269.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishing boat capsizes||Eleven people on board a fishing boat were rescued after the vessel capsized in the sea off LNG terminal, Puthuvype, on Friday morning. They were rescued by workers of other boats in the vicinity and Marine Enforcement personnel. None needed hospitalisation, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-boat-overturns/article36787267.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure maximum intake, MGU tells colleges||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) has asked its affiliated arts and science colleges to revise the admission schedule for courses not coming under the purview of its centralised allotment process (CAP) as per the revised CAP schedule, to ensure that students get admission to the courses of their choice. The directive was issued following complaints that several applicants were losing out the opportunity to enrol for courses not coming under CAP, as the admission window was not extended in tune with the new CAP schedule. The varsity has told colleges not to close the admission schedule, as it may hamper the chances of students. MGU issues separate notifications for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes to which admission is not through the online CAP. An order issued by the varsity last week had said that the last date of admission, date of admission, closure of admission process, and the date on which academic sessions would commence had to be revised as per changes made in the CAP schedule. Extended window The order is expected to provide an extended window to candidates to secure admission to various programmes. The chances of seats remaining vacant for various courses owing to the lack of an extended admission schedule will also be reduced through the revision of the time schedule. Grace marks Meanwhile, MGU has decided to provide 15 marks as weightage to candidates with national certificates in scouts, guides, and rover and ranger activities at the Plus Two level for admission to its undergraduate courses. The government had issued a circular on August 13 ratifying the proposal to provide 15 marks to aspirants coming under the above categories for admission to undergraduate courses at all State universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-asks-colleges-to-ensure-maximum-intake/article36787270.ece
02 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Spike in wild elephants raiding farms||Edappalayam, a forest-flanked hamlet in Aryankavu panchayat, has been seeing a sudden spike in the number of rogue elephants. They stray into the farms, households and even the nearby highway feasting on crops and leaving a trail of destruction. The menace intensified nearly four months back with jumbos making daily visits and it's no isolated incident. With human-wildlife conflict increasing manifold, both conservation measures and livelihoods remain affected in many forest-fringes of late. “Earlier it used to be wild boars, monkeys and peafowl, but now leopards and elephants have joined the team making our lives miserable. Majority of the residents are farmers and frequent crop-raiding have left them in extreme distress. Apart from the loss of livestock, property damage and injuries sustained during confrontations are also a matter of major concern,” says Binitha Binu, who represents the ward. While several plantation workers from the area were attacked by wild elephants, banana farmers have incurred huge losses with the animals uprooting hundreds of plants ready for harvest. According to farmers, the options provided by the Forest Department including solar-powered electric fences fall inadequate most times. “Over the years the elephants have learned how to destroy the fences using tree branches or by removing the poles. Also, the fences require regular maintenance and will stop functioning if any wild vegetation touches it. Though the Rapid Response Team scares away the pachyderms, they come back within hours. Trenching is not possible due to the rocky terrain and the authorities are turning a blind eye to our suffering,” says Raghu, farmer. While wild boars and monkeys are now seen wandering into villages far off from the woods, peafowl menace is on the rise in many districts. According to Pathanapuran MLA and former Forest Minister K.B.Ganesh Kumar, a scientific and sustainable strategy is required to tackle the issue. “In States like Tamil Nadu they have constructed several check dams to make sure that no animal strays in search of water. There also have artificial waterholes inside forests and during summers, they fill it using tankers. In Kerala around 150 check dams were constructed during 2012-13 but we failed to continue that project,” he says. Adequate water Mr.Ganesh Kumar adds that if the Department can recreate a habitat with adequate water, fodder grass and other crops palatable to the animals, it will prevent them from straying. “We have encroached their habitat and we should pay appropriate compensation,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-wild-elephants-raiding-farms/article36787299.ece
02 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||CM lauds NSS initiative to provide houses for people||National Service Scheme (NSS) has made productive interventions in the housing sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said here. Speaking online at the key handing over function of 25 houses constructed by Higher Secondary National Service Scheme across the State on Friday, he added that NSS had been carrying out activities to spread the message of humanity. Minister of Education V.S. Sivankutty who inaugurated the function at Shanmukha Vilasam Higher Secondary School, Clappana, said that efforts would be made to extend the activities of NSS to sections other than Higher Secondary. “Medicines that boost the immunity will be distributed among the students,” he said. Minister’s gesture When Atul, a student suffering from brittle bone disease, approached him for a device to attend online classes, the Minister said that he would soon provide a mobile phone or laptop. A.M Arif, MP, handed over the keys of the house built by the NSS unit of Shanmukha Vilasam Higher Secondary School and Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal inaugurated the activities of the unit for 2021-22 academic year online. While C.R. Mahesh, MLA, delivered the keynote address, Higher Secondary National Service Scheme State programme coordinator Jacob John, Oachira block panchayat president Deepti Raveendran, district panchayat Public Works Standing Committee chairperson Vasantha Ramesh, Clappana grama panchayat president Mini Mohan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-lauds-nss-initiative-to-provide-houses-for-people/article36787304.ece
02 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,131 new cases reported in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,131 new cases of COVID-19 and 92 recoveries on Friday. While 1,126 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include five health workers. At present the district has 41,200 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,44,733. While 1,660 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 3,79,183 primary and 20,836 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 14.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1131-new-cases-reported-in-kollam/article36787305.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Resort check-dams to be razed||The Koodaranhi grama panchayat authorities on Friday conducted an inspection at PVR Nature Resort, co-owned by P.V. Anwar, MLA, as part of measures to demolish three illegally constructed check-dams in the environmentally sensitive area. The panchayat authorities, led by president Jose Mavara and secretary O.A. Ansu, visited the site at Kakkadampoyil with the deadline fixed by the District Collector for the resort owners to remove the illegal constructions ending on Thursday. It was following a recent High Court order that the Collector came up with stringent action. Demolition expenses The panchayat authorities said they would begin the technical procedures for demolition on Saturday. Tenders would be floated. The expenses for demolition would be collected from the violators on completion of task, they said. The court intervened in the issue after the check-dams were reportedly preventing the natural water flow in the area. There were also complaints that the illegal construction might trigger landslides. Cheating case Meanwhile, the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court at Manjeri has asked the Crime Branch to produce its investigation report in the Rs. 50-lakh cheating case involving Mr. Anwar. Chief Judicial Magistrate S. Rasmi asked the Crime Branch to produce the case diary on October 13. The Crime Branch had found Mr. Anwar prima facie guilty of cheating an NRI engineer of Rs. 50 lakh in connection with a crusher business deal in Karnataka. The court order came following a question raised by petitioner Naduthodi Saleem from Malappuram, as to why Mr. Anwar was not arrested after he was found prima facie guilty in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resort-check-dams-to-be-razed/article36787256.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Women’s commission lauds police for work during lockdown||Issuing special certificates of appreciation, the Kerala Women’s Commission has lauded the role played by the Kozhikode Rural police during the lockdown period in promptly addressing the grievances of women through various intensive action plans. Appreciation certificates were issued to District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Srinivas and his team members for motivating the staff to execute the projects. “The active functioning of a Domestic Conflict Resolution Centre [DCRC] was mainly taken into account by the women’s panel while issuing the appreciation certificate,” said Dr. Srinivas. He said the DCRC had turned out to be a pillar of support for many hapless women who approached the police with petitions on domestic violence, sexual assaults, and mental torture. Officials heading the DCRC said there were over 50 serious complaints that were effectively handled by the centre. The team began field-level activities and awareness programmes by appointing a domestic violence survivor as the official mascot. The woman, who was then a trainee civil police officer in Kozhikode district, managed to inspire people, they said. The intervention of the cell also helped many women connect with local police stations. Cases that were ignored by the local police were directly handled by a separate investigation team appointed by the District Police Chief. Online and direct support of professional counsellors for victims and the deployment of a pink patrol squad were the other highlights. Steps to address the pandemic-induced stress among children and efforts to honour couples who followed the COVID-19 protocol at weddings also drew the attention of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-commission-lauds-police-for-work-during-lockdown/article36787260.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A school reads the Mahatma in 106 days||The Story of My Experiments with Truth , the autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi, could be the most widely read book in the country over the past century. Now, a rural government school in Kozhikode has gone one step ahead and ensured that all its students have read the Mahatma, despite the challenges posed by the online teaching mode. ‘Oru Pusthakathinte Manthrika Swadheenam- Oru Vidyalayam Gandhijiyude Athmakatha Vayikkunnu’ (The magical influence of a book — A school reads Gandhiji’s autobiography) is a unique programme undertaken by Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Meppayur, here on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The event was held over 106 days from June 19 (National Reading Day) to October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti), under which all students, in all classes, were made to read at least a chapter of the book daily. The chapters were converted into video clips and PDF documents and uploaded on the school’s YouTube channel every morning for students to read. Discussions followed on regular online classes. While writer M.N. Karassery opened the programme on June 19, 2021, poet P.P. Sreedharanunni presented the first chapter. Then, students of the school took over. The final chapter will be presented by Thathagath, a Class I student of the school, on October 2 to mark the conclusion of the event. Talks by experts There were also talks on various aspects of the Mahatma on all the 106 days by 106 socio-cultural activists. There were also offline programmes. At the end, the art teachers of Kozhikode district, under the leadership of Rahman Kozhukkallur, the art teacher of Meppayur school, created a relief mural sculpture named ‘Gandhi Vayanayude Ormakku’,which comprises episodes of the Mahatma’s life. The sculpture will be revealed on Saturday by MLA T.P. Ramakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-school-reads-the-mahatma-in-106-days/article36787322.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Air fares soar as Dubai Expo begins||Air tariffs for one-way travel between Indian cities and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have soared as the Dubai Expo 2020 officially opened on Friday. Economy class tickets are unavailable on the Dubai-based Emirates for the next few days. A first class ticket in the Kochi-Dubai sector is quoted at Rs. 1,31,112 on Saturday and Sunday while the ticket fare on Monday in business class is Rs. 89,828. Air India tickets in economy class on the Kozhikode-Dubai route on Monday and Wednesday will cost Rs. 35,425 and Rs. 38,750 respectively. IndiGo has rates on one-way tickets in the Kozhikode-Dubai sector at around Rs. 40,000. From August 30, the UAE has started issuing tourist visas from all countries, provided that they are fully vaccinated with one of the WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccines. The air tariff has been soaring since. Expo 2020, originally scheduled from October 20, 2020 to April 10, 2021, was postponed due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-fares-soar-as-dubai-expo-begins/article36787313.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC to convert 3,000 buses to CNG||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is planning to convert its 3,000 diesel-powered buses to CNG to offer cost-effective service, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. The Minister was speaking to mediapersons after flagging off the trial service of a CNG-powered private bus at Balussery here on Friday. 1,000 buses initially Mr. Raju said the first phase of the conversion process would cover 1,000 buses, for which funds had already been earmarked. The Minister said the industry would not move forward without exploring cost-effective alternatives like CNG. The State government had already come up with measures to open CNG distribution outlets in existing fuel stations. Lack of filling stations Admitting to the shortage of sufficient CNG filling stations in north Kerala, Mr. Raju said he would take up the issue with the Union government. “Also, there should be a better financial package for the vehicle owners who are ready to convert their vehicles to CNG,” he observed. The trial service of the newly flagged off bus would continue for a month on the Kuttiyadi-Kozhikode route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-convert-3000-buses-to-cng/article36787317.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Slab crash: one more dies||One more labourer who sustained grave injuries in the Pottammal concrete slab crash died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Friday. The deceased was identified as Ganeshan, 31. Tamil Nadu natives G. Karthik, 23, and Saleem Khan, 26, were the first two victims who succumbed to their injuries on the spot on September 26. Police sources said an investigation was under way to check whether the private company that assigned the labourers had arranged the required safety measures at the worksite. District Labour Officer (Enforcement) V.P. Sivaraman, who submitted a report to the Labour Commissioner, said there were some serious safety violations at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slab-crash-one-more-dies/article36787259.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Selected as tool kit project board member||Kareem Karassery, State general secretary of the Blood Patients’ Protection Council, has been selected as an advisory board member of the Minimally Safe Practice Tool Kit Project for patients of sickle cell anaemia and thalassemia in India and Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selected-as-tool-kit-project-board-member/article36787253.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Tremor-like sound due to soil piping’||Soil piping could be the cause of a strange tremor-like sound being heard from a house in Kuruvattur grama panchayat in Kozhikode. More geological studies will be conducted at the site with the assistance of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies. It was found that water in the compound of the house had seeped into the floor, according to a press release on Friday. An expert team visited the house on Friday and submitted its findings to the Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tremor-like-sound-due-to-soil-piping/article36787252.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cleanliness project launch||‘Azhakeriya Nammude Kozhikode’, a project to make Kozhikode free of waste, being implemented by Inter Agency Group, a collective of voluntary organisations, in association with the district administration, will begin on Saturday. Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy and Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed will launch the project on the Railway Station Link Road premises. Cleaning Link Road is the first undertaking of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleanliness-project-launch/article36787254.ece
02 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Houses given||Five new houses constructed by National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers from various higher secondary schools were handed over to the beneficiaries on Friday. K.M. Sachin Dev, MLA, inaugurated the district-level key handing-over ceremony at Arikkulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houses-given/article36787258.ece
02 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Cheating case: CB told to produce probe report||The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court at Manjeri has asked the Crime Branch to produce its complete investigation report in the Rs. 50-lakh cheating case involving P.V. Anvar, MLA. Chief Judicial Magistrate S. Rasmi asked the Crime Branch to produce the case diary on October 13. The Crime Branch had found Mr. Anvar prima facie guilty of cheating an NRI engineer of Rs. 50 lakh in connection with a crusher business deal in Karnataka. The court order came following a question raised by petitioner Naduthodi Saleem from Pattarkadavu, Malappuram, as to why Mr. Anvar was not arrested even after finding him prima facie guilty in the case. The petitioner told the court that the Crime Branch, instead of producing the case diary of its investigation, had produced a case diary of an earlier inquiry conducted by the local police. ‘Several anomalies’ The Crime Branch had taken over the case in December 2018 following a High Court order. However, little progress was made in the investigation headed by Dy.SP P. Vikraman. The petitioner also pointed out several anomalies in a temporary report submitted by Mr. Vikraman. Taking serious note of the complaint, the court ordered the Crime Branch to produce its complete investigation report on October 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheating-case-cb-told-to-produce-probe-report/article36787315.ece
02 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Wildlife Week to focus on conservation||This year’s Wildlife Week celebrations will begin here on Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the State-level function through videoconferencing at 12 p.m. on Saturday. The State Forest and Wildlife Department has chalked out a variety of programmes as part of the celebrations. People will be allowed free entry in wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in the State until Friday next. Competitions Competitions in wildlife photography, wildlife short film, wildlife travelogue, wildlife poster making, and wildlife quiz, are some of the programmes being held as part of the celebrations. The entry period for the competitions being held online was over on September 30. The results will be announced on Thursday. The quiz for college and higher secondary students will be held on Monday. The winners of different competitions will get free entry into wildlife sanctuaries and national parks for one year. Minister for Forest and Wildlife A.K. Sasindran will preside over the inaugural function to be held here on Saturday. Webinars on the importance of wildlife conservation will be held during the week. Wildlife scientist and vertebrate ecologist from Tamil Nadu Asir Jawahar Thomas Johnsingh will speak on ‘The scope and challenges of wildlife conservation in India’ on Saturday afternoon. Online mode It will be through online mode. All government employees and school children will have to take a pledge to conserve wildlife on Tuesday. COVID-19 protocol will be strictly observed. The valedictory function will be held through videoconferencing on Friday next.  People will be allowed free entry in wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in the State until Friday next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wildlife-week-to-focus-on-conservation/article36787391.ece
02 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||TCRC to hold lecture series on Tamil culture||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre (TCRC), Palakkad and Chennai, will conduct a series of lectures on medicine, law and Tamil culture in association with V.G.M. Hospital, Coimbatore. TCRC director K.A. Rajaram said here on Friday that Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Vice Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan would inaugurate the monthly lecture series on October 24. V.G.M. Hospital chairman Mohan Prasad will moderate the lecture series to be held online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tcrc-to-hold-lecture-series-on-tamil-culture/article36787389.ece
02 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nila folklore film fete from October 29||The second edition of the Nila International Folklore Film Festival of India (NIFFFI) will be held online from October 29. The festival celebrating Bharatapuzha will set the ball rolling for revival of folklore that existed along the banks of the mighty river. The Vayali Folklore Group, an organisation formed in 2004 with the objective of connecting the youth to Bharatapuzha folklore, is organising the festival on October 29,30,31, November 5,6, and 7. The maiden edition of the NIFFFI held last year had 74 films representing diversified aspects of folklore from across the world. As many as 18 films from the Northeast had won a special appreciation in the maiden event. The Naga film Long Drum of Pessao had won the NIFFFI Black Fire Award. Vayali Folklore Group director Vinod Nambiar said that the NIFFFI was born out of a thought process to bring new media into the context of folklore. “The penetration of folk art performance groups across the State shows the acceptance of folklore among the new generation,” said Mr. Nambiar. He said the Vayali had the influence of the Centre for Folklore Studies (CFS), Thrissur. “It is the special connect the CFS enjoys with the local people that earns it the acceptance from academics and practitioners alike. The Vayali too is emulating that approach by rooting in a local context with a global vision,” he said. English magazine The NIFFFI will have a series of talk shows on different aspects of folklore ahead of the event. An online English magazine titled The Libertas is also on the anvil. “We will have contributions from researchers throwing light on future aspects of folklore,” said Vijayan Punathur, executive editor of The Libertas . The Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts, Sahapedia, ASTI Studio, and Roots OTT, are partnering with the NIFFFI. Director Jayaraj is the festival chairman.  The NIFFFI will have a series of talk shows on different aspects of folklore ahead of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nila-folklore-film-fete-to-be-held-online-from-october-29/article36787295.ece
02 October 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Gandhi’s story in Tholpavakoothu||The story of Mahatma Gandhi will be told through Tholpavakoothu at Sabari Ashram on Saturday. Tholpavakoothu exponent Ramachandra Pulavar will lead the narration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gandhis-story-in-tholpavakoothu/article36787427.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City Corpn. forms draft law for pet licensing||Following the Kerala High Court's order in July to all local bodies to bring in a licensing system for pets, the city Corporation has come up with a draft bylaw for pet licensing in which charges for pet owners and breeders have been fixed. As per the draft law, every pet owner in the city has to pay an annual licence fee of Rs. 250 per pet. The breeder licence fee as well as the fee for institutions have been fixed at Rs. 1,000. Vaccination certificate In the licence application, the age and the breed of the dog have to be mentioned. The owner should also provide an anti-rabies vaccination certificate attested by a veterinary surgeon. A microchip has to be embedded to ensure that it can be identified and the owner tracked down in case the pet gets lost or is abandoned. One person can keep a maximum of 10 dogs as pets for non-commercial purposes. In case there are more than 10 canines, an application for a special licence must be submitted to the Corporation. Norms on sale During sale of pets, the new owner has to submit an application for a transfer of licence with a copy of the original licence within 30 days of the deal. The Corporation licence will be cancelled if the transfer of ownership is to a person residing in another local body. Though the licence has to be renewed annually, there is also an option for obtaining one for five years. However, the licence will get cancelled if the preventive vaccination is not administered on time. Cats and dogs have to be administered anti-rabies vaccine when they are eight to nine months old. Penalty for violations Institutions that breed pets have to keep a register with the details of the pets as well as the details of the persons to whom they are sold. If the licence is not provided by the Corporation within 15 days of application, the licence can be deemed to be approved. For violation of bylaw norms, a fine of Rs. 1,000 will be imposed. The Corporation will reserve the right to seize those pets kept without licences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-corpn-forms-draft-law-for-pet-licensing/article36787475.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More leaders will quit Cong.: Vijayaraghavan||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan on Friday termed Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran’s resignation from crucial party posts a ‘value-based protest.’ Almost in the same breath, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said more prominent leaders with stature would quit the Congress to “cooperate” with the CPI(M). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would fete them at a public function in Thiruvananthapuram next week. When pressed, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said, “Mr. Sudheeran had discovered off late that he could not uphold his values in the Congress. He had to resign key party posts to be heard within the party. Mr. Sudheeran has sent a strong message to the Congress’. Mr. Vijayaraghavan was briefing newspersons after chairing a meeting of the CPI(M) State secretariat. He drew a parallel between Mr. Sudheeran’s protest and the dissident G-23 group in the Congress. Youth Congress workers had physically targeted senior leader Kapil Sibal for stating the obvious that the party had no elected president and suffered from a leadership vacuum. ‘Sense of entitlement’ He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra controlled the party with a sense of entitlement. They were not elected leaders. The duo changed Chief Ministers capriciously. Even P. Chidambaram had bemoaned the feeling of helplessness that gripped the Congress. The party was no safe harbour, Mr. Chidambaram had stated recently. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran’s dalliance with quacks spoke volumes about the state of affairs in Congress. “The party is rotting from within, and Ramesh Chennithala had recently resigned from his responsibilities in the party. Congress’s decline is gathering pace,” Mr.Vijayaraghavan said. The CPI(M) reportedly found the fake antique racket in Kochi too shallow a subject to weaponise politically. The party also welcomed former KPCC secretary Solomon Alex who quit the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-leaders-will-quit-cong-vijayaraghavan/article36787261.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soaking in sweetness of freedom||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday inaugurated the four-day Swathanthryam Thanne Amritham event organised by the city Corporation and Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited to mark the 75th anniversary of Indian independence. Mayor Arya Rajendran presided over the inaugural event held in front of the Kanakakkunnu Palace in the presence of Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, Smart City CEO Vinay Goel and others. Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the video wall of the integrated command and control centre at a function held at the collectorate. On Saturday, the Mayor will flag off a cycle rally from Kanakakkunnu at 7 a.m. On Sunday, Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, will inaugurate a freedom walk from Kanakakkunnu at 6.30 p.m. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas will inaugurate the valedictory function to be held on October 4 at 5.30 p.m at Kanakakkunnu Palace. Colourful cycling tracks have been added to some of the major roads in the city for the cycling, marathon and skating events as part of the celebrations. The cycling track is being planned as a loop from the Corporation main office to Vellayambalam to Kowdiar to Pattom to PMG and back to the Corporation office. The 7-km stretch is a temporary arrangement. Beautification One major area in each of the hundred wards in the city will be beautified as part of the celebrations. Conservation and celebration of traditional water bodies and heritage precincts is also part of the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/independence-anniversary-fete-launched/article36787312.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM urges NSS to keep up COVID prevention works||With schools set to reopen after a long gap in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, disease prevention activities will have to be given due attention, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The support of organisations such as the National Service Scheme (NSS) that have played a huge role in COVID prevention and disaster relief is essential in this mission, he said. The Chief Minister was speaking after virtually handing over the keys to 25 houses built by the higher secondary wing of the NSS on Friday. Mr. Vijayan said the NSS should start preparing for COVID-19 prevention activities from now itself. Overcoming challenges In the past five years, the State had to face various challenges. However, Keralites had shown exemplary unity and support for each other in overcoming these. The value of helping others had played a huge role in such efforts. This humaneness had made possible the handing over of keys to 25 houses, Mr. Vijayan said, while praising the NSS for instilling such values in children. Creative interventions From the 2017-18 academic year to 2020-21, 463 houses had been built owing to students’ efforts under the NSS, whose creative interventions in the housing sector were laudable, he said. Funding for the 25 houses had been raised through public sponsorships and initiatives such as the scrap challenge. Such social service based on humaneness and teamwork is a model, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-urges-nss-to-keep-up-covid-prevention-works/article36787484.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jagratha samitis to be strengthened: Satheedevi||Jagratha samitis that function as part of the three-tier panchayat system as stipulated by the Kerala Women’s Commission rules will be strengthened in the wake of an increase in crimes against women, Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi has said. She was addressing mediapersons after assuming charge here on Friday. She said instances of women being harassed in the name of dowry and pushed to suicide were on the rise. Hence, a campaign against dowry was being organised by the Kerala Women’s Commission and others. Girls should not be pushed into marriages. Instead, they should be educated to the extent possible. The Governor’s directive that students, in order to get college admission and graduation certificate, should submit an affidavit that they would not take dowry was laudable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jagratha-samitis-to-be-strengthened-satheedevi/article36787328.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala University to put in place water supply scheme||Bringing an end to the drinking water woes on the Karyavattam campus, the University of Kerala is set to operationalise a 6 lakh-litre water tank that will cumulate flow from traditional water resources. Water self-sufficiency Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil will formally commission the Jalasamrudhi project that targets water self-sufficiency on the campus on October 4. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai will preside over the function. Besides water supply through the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) distribution network, the tank will receive water sourced from four ‘valkinar’ that were discovered on the campus during a field mapping study conducted by the Department of Geology. The project was undertaken by the KWA at a cost of Rs. 1.60 crore. The Jamasamrudhi project also involved harvesting rainwater and recharging wells on the campus with a goal of attaining self-sufficiency in water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-university-to-put-in-place-water-supply-scheme/article36787474.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Integrated command and control centre opens in capital||The State will formulate a new Public Health Act by integrating the Travancore-Kochi Public Health Act and the Malabar Public Health Act, Health Minister Veena George has said. She was inaugurating the functioning of the Integrated Command and Control Centre, the expanded COVID-19 war room, at the District Collectorate here on Friday. The government will launch a public health campaign for the prevention and control of lifestyle diseases. The integrated command and control centre will be the culmination of technology, innovation and action for the management of public health emergencies and other urban surveillance mechanisms, said Ms. George. The centre functions under the joint auspices of the city Corporation and Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Ltd. Concerted efforts It had been set up as part of the efforts to make the city a garbage-free and infectious diseases-free district, with the coordinated efforts of the city Corporation, the Collectorate, the Police and the Health departments. A 24-hour COVID-19 call centre, information from the COVID Jagratha portal, ambulance service for transporting COVID-positive individuals and all information on hospital services and availability of beds can be coordinated by the centre. Apart from COVID-related activities, the centre will also organise, monitor and coordinate activities during public health emergencies such as outbreaks of infectious diseases, floods and other natural calamities and other emergency services as required. A monitoring and control wing of the centre will soon be functional at the city Corporation as well. A 75-member team, including doctors, junior health inspectors, officials from various departments and volunteers, will be engaged in the day-to-day activities of the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/integrated-command-control-centre-opens/article36787310.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10-day online quiz on energy efficiency concludes tomorrow||The 10-day online quiz programme organised by The Hindu in association with the Energy Management Centre (EMC), Kerala, has received overwhelming response from the public, with more than 25,000 participating in the event. The quiz will conclude on Sunday (October 3). The objective of the Energy Efficiency Quiz is to spread awareness on energy efficiency, green and sustainable energy in the State. The quiz was organised in connection with the silver jubilee of the EMC and as part of its Smart Energy programme (SEP). As many as 10 winners receive gift vouchers every day for the “maximum correct answers in the shortest time.” The fastest top three to answer among the daily winners also stand a chance to take home cash prizes worth Rs. 5,000, Rs. 3,000, and Rs. 2,000. The names of the winners are announced on the website the following day. To participate in the quiz, please log on tohttps://bit.ly/THEMCQZ.  The objective of the event is to spread awareness on energy efficiency, green and sustainable energy in Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-quiz-on-energy-concludes-tomorrow/article36787251.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Toll protest ends with promise of free travel||The ongoing protests against the toll collection along the NH-66 bypass stretch from Kazhakuttam to Karode ended on Friday following conciliatory talks chaired by General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, who is also the local MLA. Following the talks in which representatives of various political parties and officials participated, it was decided that vehicles belonging to persons residing within 11 kilometre radius of the toll booth at Thiruvallam can pass through it free of cost. Pass distribution For this purpose, residents can make use of their identification cards for the next one week. Free pass distribution will begin on Saturday (October 2). The water-logging in the toll plaza area will be solved within a week. The tender for the construction of a new bridge and to address certain issues due to unscientific construction of the road near Thiruvallam junction will be issued within a month, it was decided. District Collector Navjot Khosa, M. Vincent, MLA, DCP Vaibhav Saxena, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)  project director Praveen Kumar were among those who participated in the meeting. Remaining works The protest against toll collection at the Thiruvallam toll plaza began in August, with local residents and political parties stepping up the heat on the NHAI against the collection before the completion of the entire stretch. Now, traffic along the new stretch is possible only till Kovalam as work remains to be completed on the Mukkola-Karode stretch. The local residents had also objected to being asked to pay a toll for trips in their neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-protest-ends-with-promise-of-free-travel/article36787485.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to verify engg. teachers’ qualification||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has initiated scrutiny to ascertain qualification of engineering college teachers in the State. The move comes against the backdrop of an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) that found 961 teachers, including nearly 150 in government and aided colleges, lacking requisite qualifications. The CAG audit report for the period 2019-20 had exposed the inadequacy, which underscored the need for a regulatory mechanism for appointments and promotions in the technical education sector. While assessing the data available in the e-governance platform of the university, the statutory auditor found that 961 associate professors, professors, and principals did not have PhD. The eligibility criterion was mandated by the All India Council for Technical Education for promotion to such posts in its regulations issued in 2010 and 2019. Mostly in private ones While a majority of such teachers (750) were in private colleges, government and government-aided institutions had 93 and 49 such employees respectively. Such violations were also reported from government self-financing (62) and Union government’s self-financing (seven) colleges, the report stated. The KTU has directed the erring institutions to furnish reports with supporting documents on such contentious appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-verify-engg-teachers-qualification/article36787329.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 1,464 new cases, 821 recoveries||The capital district registered 1,464 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. The number of active cases stood at 16,063 and the test positivity rate (TPR) in the district was 12.8%. The district also reported 821 recoveries on the day. The number of people in quarantine rose to 40,918, with the addition of 2,119 more persons on Friday. Containment zone Meanwhile, Vellanad town, which constitutes ward no. 12 of the Vellanad panchayat, has been declared a containment zone as part of the COVID-19 management measures. Stringent regulations have been imposed in the ward, said District Collector Navjot Khosa. Excluded from list Fourteen local body wards in the district have been excluded from the list of containment zones with the infection rate under control, the district administration said. This includes the Vazhottukonam and Kesavadasapuram wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Vadakkode in Neyyattinkara municipality, and Mancha, Kollamkavu, Edamala, Kusharkode, Uliyoor and Manacode in the Nedumangad municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-1464-new-cases-821-recoveries/article36787483.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Drives for gender justice on campuses: Bindu||Expressing her anguish at the murder of a student by her classmate in Pala, Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu has ordered steps to launch gender justice campaigns on campuses. In a statement, Dr. Bindu said that the Additional Chief Secretary of Higher Education has been instructed to issue directions to the heads of higher educational institutions in this regard. Class sessions must be organised to create awareness on laws and platforms that are available against gender violence and atrocities against women. Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) and gender justice fora in colleges must be utilised for such sensitisation drives that will get underway as soon as the colleges reopen this month. The contact details of ICC members must be published on notice boards for the benefit of students and others on campuses. ‘Respect choice’ Referring to the murder, she said such disturbing trends were an indicator of the mental health among youths. An individual’s choice must be respected and such values must be instilled on campuses. The Jeevani mental health programme, currently implemented in government colleges, would be extended to all institutions, she said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drives-for-gender-justice-on-campuses-bindu/article36787330.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert issued for capital district||The capital district has been put on yellow alert on Saturday given the likelihood of isolated heavy rainfall, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Friday. The Collector asked fishers from the district to stay away from Kanyakumari coast and the Gulf of Mannar where strong winds with speeds reaching 40-50 kmph and gusting to 60 kmph have been forecast till Sunday. However, there is no prohibition on fishing along the Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep coasts, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-issued-for-capital-district/article36787479.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP must not impede city’s growth, says Sivankutty||The BJP should desist from activities aimed at disrupting the capital city's development, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has said. In a statement issued here on Friday, the Minister said the BJP has been trying to scuttle the functioning of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation council ever since the LDF came back to power with a thumping majority. "It is clear that the decision of the BJP councillors to disrupt the functioning of the council is with the support of its district and State leaders. The visit of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan during the protest at the Corporation is evidence. The Corporation has been forging ahead with its activities under the leadership of the country's youngest Mayor. The administration was successful in exposing corruption in zonal offices and taking action against officials. The BJP is trying to take attention away and protect the accused," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-must-not-impede-citys-growth-says-sivankutty/article36787476.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bike thefts: three arrested||The City Police have arrested three youths on charges of stealing motorcycles from the Medical College Hospital campus. The Medical College Police identified them as Sreekuttan (22) of Poovathur at Vamanapuram; Nandu (19) of Manikkapally at Venjaramoodu and Adityan (18) of Melattumkuzhi at Venjaramoodu. Following complaints about theft of motorcycles from the hospital premises, the police had formed a special investigation group. After a bike belonging to a patient from Mangalapuram was stolen, the police team examined CCTV footages and tracked down the accused from Venjaramoodu. The police have also recovered six motorcycles from the accused. The police team was led by Medical College Inspector P. Harilal and sub inspectors Prasanth and Shajeem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bike-thefts-three-arrested/article36787308.ece
02 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Upgraded Kerala portal launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday launched the upgraded Kerala State portal, a portal for e-services and the m-sevanam application for accessing various government services through mobile phones. Transparency After inaugurating the services through videoconferencing, the Chief Minister said the measures were part of ensuring transparency in the delivery of services to the public. He said people should be able to get things done without visiting government offices multiple times. For this purpose, the government had made use of the latest digital technologies so that everyone could access various services from home. Singl platform The official portal of the State government —kerala.gov.in— has been upgraded in such a way that the public can get an idea of the various services, projects, and publications of the government in a single platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/upgraded-kerala-portal-launched/article36787309.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||13,843 new cases||The State logged 13,843 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,05,368 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool declined to 1,42,499 patients, with 13,767 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The Health Department states that only 11.5% of the active cases are admitted to hospitals or COVID treatment centres. The official cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 25,182 with the State adding 95 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Friday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals State is 1,906 on Friday. On Friday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID came down to 1,222. Among districts, Thrissur reported 1,823 new cases, Ernakulam 1,812, Thiruvananthapuram 1,464, Kozhikode 1,291, Kollam 1,131, Malappuram 1,125, Kottayam 896, Pathanamthitta 858, Alappuzha 811, Kannur 744, Palakkad 683, Idukki 671, Wayanad 339, and Kasaragod 186 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13843-new-cases/article36787326.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Campaign against drugs||Minister for Excise and Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan will inaugurate a month-long awareness campaign of the State drug and addiction-free mission Vimukthi at a function to be held at the Institution of Engineers hall in the capital on Saturday at 10 a.m. Transport Minister Antony Raju will preside over the function. A slew of events events, including cycle rallies, quizzes, awareness campaigns and other programmes will be organised at the grass-roots level with the help of residents' associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-against-drugs/article36787477.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three-day Gandhi film festival opens today||The Culture Department will organise a Gandhi Film Festival as part of 'Azadi ka Amrith Mahotsav' that marks the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The three-day festival, which begins on Saturday, is organised in association with the State Chalachitra Academy and the Payyannur Open Frame Film Society. On Saturday, Shyam Benegal's The Making of the Mahatma will be screened, while Richard Attenborough's Gandhi will be screened on October 3 and Girish Kasaravally's Koormavathara the following day. The online links and other details will be available on the academy's website www.keralafilm.com and https://openframe.online/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-day-gandhi-film-festival-opens-today/article36787478.ece
02 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Book released||My Journey with Unknown Poems , an anthology of 40 English poems written by Vithura V. Asok was released in the capital on Thursday. Former Chief Information Commissioner, Kerala, Vinson. M Paul released the poetry collection. V.K. Madhu, Secretary, Kerala State Library Council, received the first copy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/book-released/article36787481.ece
02 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Women’s empowerment Modi govt.’s agenda: Muraleedharan||Empowerment of women is one of the main agendas of the Modi government, Union Minister V. Muraleedharan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a function held here on Friday in connection with birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to honour 71 women, who are role models for society. “Almost all the projects implemented by the Modi government since 2014 has been giving stress on women’s empowerment. The result of the projects has been reflected in society,” he said. BJP district president K.K. Aneesh Kumar, Mahila Morcha State president S. Nivedita, and other BJP leaders participated. The Minister also participated in the remembrance meeting of the former BJP district president P.M. Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-empowerment-modi-govts-agenda-muraleedharan/article36787393.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A shot in time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-shot-in-time/article36787487.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||In the story headlined “Members of Koraga community being denied title deeds: published on October 01, 2021, the reference to Pavur village in Manjeswaram panchayat and Udayavur and Kunjathur villages in Vorkady panchayat should read as Pavur in Vorkady panchayat and Udyavar and Kunjathur in Manjeswaram panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article36787257.ece
02 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘stitch’ ahead of Pawan’s visit||In a knee-jerk reaction to JSP president Pawan Kalyan’s proposed ‘shramadaan’ to repair the Puttaparthi-Dharmavaram State Highway at Kothacheruvu on Saturday, the R&B Department had hurriedly filled all the deep potholes and black-topped the entire badly damaged portion on Thursday night. Mr. Pawan Kalyan was scheduled to reach Kothacheruvu in the district at 2 p.m. and start relaying the more than 1-km badly damaged portion of the road in the village after participating in a similar protest on Dowleswaram Barrage in East Godavari district. While the JSP president was denied permission to undertake the protest programme at Dowlesawaram, he was given the go-ahead in Anantapur district. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli told The Hindu that the JSP had been permitted to organise the programme in conformity with all the COVID-19 protocols. About 200 metres road stretch in Kothacheruvu limits, which is the gateway to Puttaparthi for those coming from the Dharmavaram side, has been non-motorable for the past six months. The R&B could not take up repairs and patch works on the remaining stretch as the contractor allegedly refusal of begin work unless the previous balance was paid by the government. R&B Superintending Engineer R. Nagaraju said the work had been completed on Thursday by asking the contractor / agency that won the tenders to execute it on a priority basis. “Temporary repairs done earlier did not solve the problem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-stitch-ahead-of-pawans-visit/article36787383.ece
02 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||J.C. Prabhakar Reddy demands release of contractors’ bills||Tadipatri Municipal Chairman and former Telugu Desam Party MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy on Friday held a dharna in front of the Peddavaduguru mandal Parishad Development Officer’s office along with party activists seeking immediate release of bill amounts of works done by contractors more than 2 years ago. The TDP leader was persuaded by the government officials to withdraw the dharna and return home, but he stayed put and questioned them as to why the sanctioned amount in the CFMS portal was being kept back. “Contractors were forced to approach the A.P. High Court and get a decree in their favour for the payment of dues. Despite this, the officials were delaying the process of releasing the amount,” Mr. Prabhakar Reddy said. The Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer spoke to Mr. Prabhakar Reddy and promised to get the amounts credited within the next four days. Following assurance from the officials, the TDP leader stalled the dharna and returned to Tadipatri. Mr. Prabhakar Reddy said there was no guarantee that the contractors would get their money for the work they do for the State departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jc-prabhakar-reddy-demands-release-of-contractors-bills/article36787362.ece
02 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balayya’s Rayalaseema meeting on October 6||Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna will hold a meeting of Telugu Desam Party leaders from Rayalaseema districts at Hindupur on October 6, seen as a preparatory meeting for gearing up for the 2024 elections. This meeting was necessitated due to the internal feud getting louder by the day and party State president Kinjarapu Acchanaidu writing an open letter on Friday to the party leaders in Anantapur to not to poach into Assembly constituencies of other party leaders, who had been given the responsibility of that particular constituency. The letter comes in the wake of Anantapur Urban former MLA Vykuntam Prabhakar Chowdary going to Tadipatri and distributing tricycles under the banner of an NGO “Away” established by him. According to party sources, Mr. Prabhakar Chowdary was advised not to visit Tadipatri, but he went ahead with his programme. Earlier, the Tadipatri former MLA and current Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy had visited the Puttaparthi Assembly constituency and met party cadres there, but no such open letter was written by the party president at that time. According to sources, party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was keen on identifying the candidates for different constituencies by February/March next year, which had led to many leaders making their efforts to get their names finalised from the constituency of their choice. The party had appointed in-charges and people/teams responsible for strengthening the party to face the next general elections and that too had created some commotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balayyas-rayalaseema-meet-on-october-6/article36787366.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC refers boy with rare disease to IGICH||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the father of a 17-month-old boy, suffering from a rare disease called Spinal Muscular Atrophy , to immediately take the child for examination to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH), Bengaluru, which has been declared as a Centre of Excellence under the National Policy for Rare Diseases (NPRD) for diagnosis, treatment and prevention of rare diseases. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the interim order on a petition filed on behalf of the child, Janish N., by his father, Naveen Kumar N., after the Union government informed the court that the child could be referred to the Centre for Human Genetics (CHG) at IGICH as this is one of the eight Centres of Excellence for rare diseases in the country. The petitioner-father had sought financial assistance of around Rs. 7.8 crore from the Union government while pointing out that around Rs. 8.26 crore of the total Rs. 16 crore needed to purchase the rare medicine, Zolgensma, required for the treatment, had been collected through crowdfunding. The child’s father also sought a direction for setting up a medical board to examine his son. As the Union government said that the child’s parents could contact Sajeeva G.N., an associate professor and nodal officer of the CHG, who would refer the child for examination by medical experts, the court stated that the said doctor at CHG would immediately respond to the child’s parents and made it clear that non-response would be viewed seriously. The court also made it clear that respondents and doctors concerned would be personally held liable if something happened to the child due to arguable culpability. On the plea of the father for financial assistance, the Union government explained the limitations on the amount to be payable from the PM’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) while also pointing out that it had received application for financial assistance in February 2021 and in March it responded to the child’s father seeking fresh medical certificate from the government or PMNRF empanelled hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-refers-boy-with-rare-disease-to-igich/article36786927.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. response sought to Nalini’s plea to release her without Governor’s nod||The Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the State government on a writ petition filed by former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict S. Nalini to declare as unconstitutional the Governor’s “failure” to release her by acting upon a recommendation made by the State Cabinet on September 9, 2018 in favour of all seven life convicts in the case. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu ordered that the State government should file a counter affidavit after the Dussehra vacation. The direction was issued after hearing her counsel M. Radhakrishnan, who contended that the Governor was bound to act as per the aid and advice of the council of Ministers and not otherwise. In an affidavit filed through her counsel on record, P. Pugalendhi, Nalini also sought a consequential direction to the State government to release her without waiting any more for the Governor’s nod. The convict recalled that she was originally sentenced to death by the trial court on January 28, 1998. The Supreme Court too, confirmed the death penalty on May 11, 1999. However, the penalty was commuted to a life sentence under Article 161 (Governor’s power to suspend, remit or commute sentences) on April 24, 2000. After the commutation, about 3,800 life convicts who had served either 10 years of imprisonment or even less were released under Article 161 of the Constitution because of their good conduct in prison. The petitioner claimed that though she became eligible to be considered for such a premature release in 2001 itself, her name was not considered at all by stating that her case was investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation and that acts as a disqualification. Nevertheless, referring to the 2018 Cabinet decision to release all seven convicts in the case, Nalini claimed the decision was binding on the Governor who had to “no discretion whatsoever” but to act in accordance with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. “In other words, I ought to have been released on the next day i.e., on September 10, 2018,” the convict contended and lamented that the Governor was yet to take a call on the Cabinet recommendation. She also disclosed that her two writ petitions, one seeking a direction to the government to implement the Cabinet recommendation and the other seeking a direction to the Governor to countersign the recommendation, were dismissed by the High Court on August 20, 2019. Hence, she had now filed a third writ petition seeking a writ of declaration that the Governor’s “failure” to act was unconstitutional. The convict heavily relied upon the Supreme Court ruling in the Maru Ram versus Union of India case, decided by a five judge Bench on November 11, 1980 to contend that the advice of the Council of Ministers was binding on the head of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-govt-respond-to-nalinis-plea-for-release-sans-governors-nod/article36787074.ece
02 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work in unison for Central funds, MP tells officials||Rajampeta MP P. Midhun Reddy said that concerted efforts of MLAs, MPs, people representatives from the village and district administration will play a vital role in getting maximum funding from the Union government to support various development works at the district level. Addressing the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting attended by MPs, MLAs and district officials on Friday, Mr. Reddy said lack of proper planning, pursuance and action at the district level would result in delay in Central funds, hampering development works. He said people’s representatives and officials could give suggestions to pursue multiple works under various departments such as Panchayat Raj, Roads and Buildings and Water Resources. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Collector M. Hari Narayanan spoke, highlighting the importance of the ongoing water projects and works on the National Highways. Road accidents Speaking at the District level Road Safety meeting, Mr. Reddy said road accidents were a silent killer, claiming more than 5 lakh lives countrywide every year. He said that due to road accidents, thousands of families were turning into sufferers. The MP said that periodical safety meetings involving all the stakeholders of road safety norms, and regular inspection of the road conditions by officials concerned, enforcement of norms and continuous awareness drive by the police would go a long way in gradually putting a effective check to the menace of road rage. Police officials observed that majority of the accidents were taking place on the National Highways. The year 2021 saw 162 casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-in-unison-for-central-funds-mp-tells-officials/article36787368.ece
02 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court sets aside results of Group-1 Mains examination||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has set aside the results of Group-1 Mains examinations held in December 2018 and directed the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission to do manual evaluation of answer sheets in “conventional mode”, within three months. Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu gave his ruling after hearing a bunch of petitions against the digital evaluation of the answer sheets. The judgment is expected to bring some relief to many aspirants who felt they had been denied justice by the digital evaluation of their answer scripts by third party. Petitioners had argued that the decision to hand over the conduct of Mains exam and evaluation procedure to a third party private agency had done gross injustice, and questioned the rationale behind the decision of APPSC to give up its constitutional duty to conduct, evaluate and recruit to a private organisation. The petitioners also highlighted in the writ petition the validity of experience of the private organisation in handling a governmental recruitment examination, and sought to know the method in which the private organisation trained the evaluators, what parameters have been applied, etc,. The High Court made some key observations while giving the order. Justice Somayajulu said that a change in evaluation of answer sheets was not correct and added that while scripts were manually scanned and not evaluated was not borne by record. The decision to opt for digital evaluation by a seven-member Board was not correct as per the law. “Young aspirants are toiling hard dreaming of a government job .. With great power comes great responsibility,’’ said the order. The Group-1 Examination notification was given in December 2018 and the preliminary examination was held on May 26, 2019. The Mains Examinations were held during December 14-20, 2020 and the results were declared on April 28, 2021. The interviews were scheduled to be held on June 17, 2021, when the High Court issued an interim order staying the interviews.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-hc-sets-aside-group-1-mains-results/article36786928.ece
02 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Andhra Formation Day’ celebrated in Bapatla||The 68th Andhra State Formation Day was celebrated in Bapatla on Friday. The coastal town of Bapatla is of significance as it gave birth to the Andhra movement, and the first Andhra conference was held here in the year 1913. It was during this conference that the demand for a separate State for all Telugu people was first raised. The First Andhra Mahasabha conference held at Bapatla was presided over by the then MLC Bayya Narasimheswara Sarma. The seeds for a movement seeking a separate State were sown at the meeting held at Edward Coronation Memorial Town Hall. Eminent personalities of the era such as Pingali Venkayya, Bhogaraju Pattabhi Sitaramayya, Ayyadevara Kaleswara Rao, Unnava Lakshminarayana, and Nyapati Subba Rao Pantulu took part in the conference. Long struggle After four decades of struggle, a separate State for Telugu people was formed on October 1, 1953, with the supreme sacrifice of Potti Sreeramulu. Memorial Teachers and students of A.V.V. High School paid tributes to those who made sacrifices in their struggle for a separate Andhra State, at the Jaya Stupa which was installed near the railway station on October 1, 1954, commemorating the first anniversary of the formation of Andhra State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-formation-day-celebrated-in-bapatla/article36787495.ece
02 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC urges officials to focus on city’s development||MLC Lella Appireddy has called upon the elected representatives of the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) to plan for comprehensive development of the city. Addressing the general body meeting of the GMC, Mr. Appireddy said Guntur, a trading and commercial hub, had grown phenomenally, but lack of planning proved to be its bane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-urges-officials-to-focus-on-citys-development/article36787494.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones used to spread seed balls||A city based technology start up has come up with an innovative idea of aerial seeding campaign as solution for the re-forestation challenge. Marut Drones, which had earlier deployed drones successfully in agricultural operations and for delivery of vaccines, is now using them for greening large swathes of denuded forest lands through its ‘Hara Bhara’ initiative. Film actor Rana Daggubati flagged off the first ‘seedcopter’-- drone with seed balls-- on Friday, kicking off the campaign in Telangana. The first payload of 1.5 lakh seed balls was delivered in the KBR National Park in the city. “Loss of vegetation occurs in vast tracts of forest areas every year, due to fire and other causes. Our aim is to accelerate the target of 33% green cover throughout the country by dispersal of seed balls in the inaccessible forest areas, using drones,” explained Prem Kumar Vislawath, Founder and Chief Innovator of Marut Drones. Seed balls contain a variety of seeds rolled within a ball of clay, together with organic manure and fertilizer. The balls, after being dispersed in a barren area, are expected to dissolve when it rains, and result in germination of the seeds. Marut Drones has engaged the services of local people, self help groups and NGOs in preparation of seed balls, and identified the locations for dispersal with aid from the Forest department. “We have been given 12,000 hectares of forest land in 12 districts by the Forest department, where we aim to fire a total of 50 lakh seed balls. We will monitor their growth for the coming 10 years, and record the change in greenery annually through satellite monitoring,” Mr.Prem Kumar said. Depending on the success rate in Telangana, he wishes to replicate the experiment throughout the country to achieve the desired levels of forest cover. “We wish to plant one billion trees in the country by 2030 through drones,” Mr.Prem Kumar said. The entire operation is being done on pro bono basis, with no funding from government. Due permissions for use of drone technology have been obtained from the Information Technology, Electronics and Communications department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-used-to-plant-forests/article36786930.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held in Telugu Akademi fraud case||Chairman and Managing Director of A.P. Mercantile Cooperative Credit Society Ltd., (APMCCS) Vijayawada, and two senior employees of the society were arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police on Friday in connection with the alleged financial fraud in the Telugu Akademi fixed deposits accounts. The accused and society C&MD B.V.V.N. Satyanarayana Rao, manager (operations) Vedula Padmavathi and relationship manager Sayyad Mohiuddin were remanded in judicial custody, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. While Rao was arrested in Vijayawada, where the society’s operations are active, the other two were taken into custody from the city. He said that based on the complaint lodged by Telugu Akademi director Somi Reddy, a case was registered regarding withdrawal of Akademi funds of Rs. 43 crore by the closing of FDRs. Accordingly, a case under Sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 r/w 34 of the Indian Police Code has been registered and a probe was launched, he said. “Our investigation has revealed that the society had received the FD deposits amounting to nearly Rs. 60 crore from a bank,” Mr Mohanty said. He said that APMCCS had opened fake accounts in the name of Telugu Akademi in their society by accepting fake IDs. The accused are also involved in similar offences in the other two cases in Hyderabad CCS, the officer said. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior police officer associated with the investigation of the case said the process of liquidating the Akademi’s fixed deposits started nearly two months ago with the active connivance of top people in the banks, a few employees of the Akademi and a middleman. “As per their plan, the agent forged some FD bonds and submitted them to the Union Bank of India (UBI) and Canara Bank. The top people in the bank, who are involved in the fraud, quickened the process of liquidation of FDRs and transferred the money to APMCCS’s account in Agrasen Cooperative Urban Bank Ltd.,” he said, adding that the fraudsters withdrew money from APMCCS’s account and spent it. The officer said that APMCCS got a ‘handful’ amount for opening fake accounts in the name of Telugu Akademi by accepting fake IDs and parking its money before it was withdrawn, he said. “The entire fraud is over Rs. 64 crore and more persons will be arrested in a day or two” the investigator said. On Friday too, the police questioned the officials of UBI and Canara Bank, employees of Akademi and a few individuals. UBI manager Mastan Vali and two others are likely to be arrested on Friday night or Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-police-arrest-three-in-telugu-akademi-fraud-case/article36786923.ece
02 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 held for assaulting girl||The Santhanpara police on Friday arrested a 24-year-old man who sexually assaulted a 14-year-old girl at Anayirankal, near Munnar. According to the police, Mukesh Prabhu was a resident of Panniyar near Kompara in Idukki district. The girl’s parents used to go for work in the morning, and the girl and her brother were alone at the workers’ quarters during the day. The accused, an autorickshaw driver, on the pretext of taking the girl and her brother to his house, took them out but dropped the boy on the way. The accused sexually abused the girl and brought her back to her house. A POCSO case has been filed against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-held-for-assaulting-girl/article36786931.ece
02 October 2021||JEELUGUMILLI (WEST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 1.01 crore seized in W. Godavari||The police seized 1,530 kg of ganja, worth about Rs. 1.01 crore, allegedly being smuggled from Konta to Hyderabad, in the Agency area in West Godavari district. Police arrested two persons, Ram Shankar Yadav and Gyanendra Tripati of Uttar Pradesh, said Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma, at a press conference on Friday. The smugglers were allegedly shifting the contraband from Chhattisgarh via. Rampachodavaram, Rajamahendravaram and Kovvur to Telangana. An eight-member police team intercepted a tanker at Jeelugumilli checkpost and seized the ganja stocks, packed in 287 cartons. The SP said that police were trying to identify the other members of the racket. The accused were booked under NDPS Act and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-101-crore-seized/article36786935.ece
02 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa Disha PS gets ISO certification||Kadapa Disha Police Station, established at the district headquarters, has received the ISO 9001:2015 certification for excelling in the areas of law and order, prevention of crime against women, speedy detection and disposal of cases and dissemination of awareness on the laws. The station also stood up to the standards in maintaining public relations for putting in place a strong and citizen-friendly policing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-disha-ps-gets-iso-certification/article36786984.ece
02 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||POCSO special court opened in Kakinada||Chief Justice of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh Arup Kumar Goswami on Friday virtually inaugurated a special court for the trial of offences registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2021 at Kakinada in East Godavari district. The special court is located opposite the Collectorate here. High Court Judges Justice U. Durga Prasada Rao (Administrative Judge- East Godavari district) and Justice R. Raghunandan Rao accompanied Justice Goswami in the virtual programme. In Kakinada, East Godavari Principal District Judge M. Babitha, and Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu participated in the programme held at the POCSO special court. “As many as 591 POCSO cases are pending in East Godavari district and the trials will be held in the special court,” Justice Babitha told reporters. Kakinada Bar Association president Y. Subramanyam and other lawyers attended the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pocso-special-court-opened-in-kakinada/article36787406.ece
02 October 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film portrays struggles of farmers||Reiterating their steadfast support for the cause of farmers, a host of organisations representing the farmers and other toiling masses have launched a social media campaign to promote the farmer-centric Telugu film, Rythanna , in an effort to amplify the farmers’ voices and support their protracted agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws through the powerful medium of cinema. The recently released movie, directed by noted Telugu actor and producer R. Narayana Murthy, is based on the issues concerning farmers and their relentless struggle against the “anti-farmer” policies. As the name suggests, the film portrays the vital role of Annadatas (food givers) as the backbone of the country’s economy and the plethora of issues concerning the farmers such as lack of remunerative prices for their produce, endless exploitation by middlemen, distress-induced suicides and the imminent risk of exploitation by corporate entities. Various farmers and other mass organisations owing allegiance to the three Left parties have urged their members to watch the movie to be screened at Vinoda theatre in the town from October 2, coinciding with Mahatma Gandhi jayanti, to express their solidarity with the farmers’ cause. The film will be screened in four theatres — one each in Khammam, Madhira, Kothagudem and Yellandu towns in the old undivided Khammam district, considered the traditional bastion of the Left parties, for one week from Saturday. Mr. Murthy, who played the lead role in the film, has been touring various parts of the erstwhile composite Khammam district for the past few days to promote the farmer-centric film. He has met senior leaders of the CPI (M), the CPI and the CPI (ML-New Democracy) and other organisations seeking their cooperation to encourage the farmers and the toiling masses besides their party cadres to watch the film. He interacted with farmers at various villages in Madhira mandal on Friday and exhorted them to watch the Rythanna movie. Apart from highlighting agrarian crisis, farmers’ distress and their multitude of issues, the film shows the solution to these problems, says Mr. Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-portrays-struggles-of-farmers/article36786938.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No money trail in fake antique dealer’s account||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the cheating cases against Monson Mavunkal, self-styled antique dealer and confidence trickster, may find it hard to prove the charges against him since his bank account has no money trail. While the accused is charged of cheating in excess of Rs. 10 crore in three separate cases, his sole bank account has a balance of a mere Rs. 200. Except for around Rs. 50 lakh collected through his former employee’s account and withdrawn by him without the knowledge of the account holder, the rest of the amount was allegedly collected in liquid cash making it hard to prove the charges in the court. This is symptomatic of all financial frauds, CB sources said. The investigation team believes that the amount was spent on maintaining his lavish lifestyle and unlikely to be stacked elsewhere. Didn’t try to sell Though his rented home was found stacked with fake antiques, he reportedly did not try to make money by selling them, but used them mostly for optics and create an aura, which is so effectively used for trapping gullible victims. The Forest Department has confirmed that one of the two pairs of ivory found in his home was fake. While the other pair is also suspected to be fake, the department has chosen to send it for further examination to confirm it. The conches recovered from his home were also found to be fake. Monson, whose custody was extended by another three days on Thursday, was not cooperating much with the interrogation. Meanwhile, the Motor Vehicles Department continued its inspection of eight vehicles found parked on Monson’s house premises at Kaloor after the Crime Branch team called for a detailed report. A team led by a Motor Vehicle Inspector and two Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspectors examined the premium vehicles. Details of vehicles There are reports that the department’s database had details of only one of those vehicles. “We primarily looked at whether the vehicles had any illegal alterations or fabrications and needed to be charged for any other offence under the Motor Vehicles Act,” MVD sources said. Most of the vehicles were old make and were not even in running condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-money-trail-in-fake-antique-dealers-account/article36786936.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 persons rescued after boat overturns in Kerala||Eleven persons on board a fishing boat were rescued after the boat overturned in the sea off LNG terminal Puthu Vype on Friday morning. They were rescued by workers of other boats in the vicinity and by marine enforcement personnel. No one was injured, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-persons-rescued-after-boat-overturns-in-kerala/article36786974.ece
02 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth kills woman on Kerala college campus||A 22-year-old woman was murdered by her classmate on a college campus in Pala on Friday. The deceased was identified as Nithina Mol, a native of Thalayolaparambu. She was attacked around 11.30 a.m. when she came out of the college after attending an examination. The accused, identified as 20-year-old Abhishek Baiju, a native of Koothattukulam, has been taken into police custody. Both were pursuing BVoc degree in Food Science at St. Thomas College, Pala. Eyewitness accounts suggested that the murder was committed at a location near the college stadium. The accused, who had been waiting outside the examination hall, approached her with a hacksaw blade. He picked up an argument with the woman and in a fit of rage, attacked her. The onlookers prevented the accused from fleeing while the woman was rushed to a private hospital nearby, though to no avail. Preliminary reports suggested that the accused had been angered by the rejection of his romantic overtures by the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classmate-kills-woman-on-college-campus/article36786932.ece
02 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assistant professor sacked for furnishing fake Ph.D certificate||Fahmida Begum, working as an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department of Dr. Abdul Haq Urdu University in Kurnool, was terminated from employment for furnishing a fake Ph.D. certificate at the time of joining service. University Registrar Bayineni Srinivasulu told The Hindu that they have initiated recovery proceedings against Ms. Begum for the salary paid to her in the last 23 months, which amounts to Rs. 5,33,436, He added that the move was initiated after the Bareilly-based Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University confirmed that the Doctorate of Philosophy Certificate of 2012 that Ms. Begum had produced while joining service was fake and that such a thesis was not presented or approved in the university. The Bareilly University had replied to Mr. Srinivasulu’s letter written to them on September 25. The accused faculty member had neither qualified in the National Eligibility Test nor the Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET), which are eligibility tests for applying for the position of an assistant professor in universities in Andhra Pradesh. The Registrar said that prior to joining the Urdu University, Ms. Begum had worked at Acharya College of Engineering at Badvel in Kadapa district from February 2014 to July 2015 and in the Kurnool-based Rayalaseema University as Assistant Professor (on contract) from August 2015 to July 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/professor-sacked-over-fake-certificate/article36787367.ece
02 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||198 COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||The steady decline in the incidence of COVID-19 continued in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as recoveries outnumbered new cases by 145 in the last 24 hours. The active caseload stood at 3,190in the region, which reported two new COVID deaths, both in SPSR Nellore district, in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday. As many as 83 persons in Prakasam and 115 in SPSR Nellore tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/198-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article36786983.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top court rejects Maudany’s plea to relax bail conditions||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea by People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Abdul Nazir Maudany to relax his bail condition and permit him to stay in his hometown in Kerala till the pendency of the trial in the 2008 Bengaluru bomb blast case, in which he is an accused. “Sorry Mr. Bhushan, we cannot relax,” Justice S. Abdul Nazeer, heading a Bench comprising Justice Krishna Murari, addressed advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for Maudany. In 2014, the Supreme Court granted Maudany bail on the ground that he had already undergone judicial custody for four years since August 2010 and was suffering from health ailments. “They assured that the trial would be completed in four months. He has spent 11 years in jail and seven years under conditional bail... The case is crawling at a snail’s pace,” Mr. Bhushan argued. Appearing for Karnataka, advocate Nikhil Goel said Maudany could not be allowed to go outside the State. “He was involved in Babri Masjid and even in the Coimbatore blasts. Witnesses have earlier come forward, saying he had tried to influence them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-court-rejects-maudanys-plea-to-relax-bail-conditions/article36786941.ece
02 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chiranjeevi unveils statue of Allu Ramalingayya||Actor K. Chiranjeevi on Friday unveiled the bronze statue of noted comedian Allu Ramalingayya at the Dr. Allu Ramalingayya Government Homoeopathic Medical College here. Former MP M. Murali Mohan, BJP State president Somu Veerraju, and Allu Aravind were present. Mr. Chiranjeevi also inaugurated the college building. When he was the Rajya Sabha member prior to 2018, Mr. Chiranjeevi had granted Rs. 2 crore to the college from the MPLADS. ‘An inspiration’ Addressing the gathering on the occasion of the birth centenary of Dr. Ramalingayya on the college campus, Mr. Chiranjeevi said, “The young generation can learn many lessons from the life of Dr. Ramalingayya, who was a practitioner of homoeopathy.” Recollecting his association with Rajamahendravaram, Mr. Chiranjeevi said, “My first movie, Punaadi Raallu , was shot in and around Rajamahendravaram.” The government college had been named after Dr. Ramalingayya in the 1980s. He had also offered financial assistance to the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chiranjeevi-unveils-statue-of-allu-ramalingayya/article36787263.ece
02 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP chief to launch road repairs initiative at Hukumpeta in E.G.||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan is all set to launch the party’s State-level initiative of repairing bad roads at Hukumpeta, near Rajamahendravaram, in East Godavari district on Saturday. In September, the JSP had documented the roads that required repair across the State and gave four weeks time to the government to come out with an action plan, failing which it it proposed to repair the roads itself. In another development, the authorities concerned on Friday evening carried out temporary repairs by filling the potholes on the Dowleswaram barrage road, where Mr. Pawan Kalyan had earlier announced to launch the party’s initiative on October 2 marking Gandhi jayanthi. The authorities also denied him permission to launch the protest on the barrage. JSP authorities said Mr. Pawan Kalyan would launch the initiative at Hukumpeta and also address the gathering on Saturday. JSP district president Kandula Durgesh and political affairs committee member Patam Nanaji appealed to the party cadres to join the initiative in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-chief-to-launch-road-repairs-initiative-at-hukumpeta-in-eg/article36787386.ece
02 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD will set up ‘Gosalas’ in A.P., Telangana, announces EO||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) is planning to set up Gosalas (shelter for cows) in the State as well as in Telangana as part of its efforts in preserving values of Sanatana Dharma, said its Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday. Ahead of anchoring the ‘Dial TTD EO’, a public interactive programme, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said besides safeguarding the temple rituals, culture, heritage and Vedic knowledge, the management has felt it important to protect and promote native cow breeds. Philanthropists have donated cows belonging to breeds like Gir, Shahiwal, Tarparker, Red Sindi and Ongole to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which in turn has donated over 60 cows along with their calves to various temples in the country under its ‘Gudi ko Go-matha’ programme, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said. Organic components Dwelling on ‘Go-Adharita Naivedyam’, a new initiative aimed at utilising only organic components in the preparation of daily naivedyam (food offering) to the presiding deity, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer said that efforts are on to procure the entire annual temple requirement of 7,000 tonnes of BG dal raised solely employing natural farming techniques. ‘Bhagavad Gita Parayanam’ Mr. Jawahar Reddy said the ‘Bhagavad Gita Parayanam’ concept shall reach every household in the country with the commissioning of Hindi and Kannada versions of Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) on October 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-set-up-gosalas-in-ap-telangana/article36787363.ece
02 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rendering services during pandemic is a social obligation’||All India Radio(New Delhi) Additional Director-General (News) Atul Kumar Tiwari has called upon educational and media institutions to reach out to the people during the pandemic times. At an interactive session on ‘social obligations of educational institutions’ organised by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam on Friday, Mr. Tiwari said it was important for universities and media houses to mitigate the woes of the public. He recalled that the AIR had conducted live interactive sessions with medical and psychology professionals on staying protected and keeping the virus at bay. 5,155 jingles G.K. Rao, head of news at AIR, Vijayawada, said as many as 5,155 jingles had been aired during the pandemic to keep the listeners stay informed and vigilant. SPMVV Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru said that the varsity had opened a counselling and wellness centre and conducted tele-counselling to callers from four States viz., Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on handling the emotional part of the pandemic. The varsity had trained its students on handling the callers and providing them the required information, especially during the first wave. Registrar D.M. Mamatha and coordinator N. Sree Rajani also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rendering-services-during-pandemic-is-a-social-obligation/article36787364.ece
02 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Order passed to hunt tiger T23 after it kills one more person||An order to hunt the tiger, T23, was passed by the Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden on Friday after the animal killed one more person at Masinagudi in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). The animal, believed to be an old male in failing health and with injuries, is thought to have been responsible for the death of four persons in villages around the MTR and Gudalur. Efforts to tranquillize and capture it was initiated more than a week ago by the Forest Department after a herder was killed at Devan Estate in Gudalur. On Friday, the animal is believed to have crossed back into the MTR from Gudalur and killed M. Basavan, 82. After his body was found, locals staged a protest and demanded that the tiger be killed. They blocked the road between Masinagudi and Udhagamandalam and refused to allow the police to take Basavan’s body to hospital for post-mortem. MTR Field Director D. Venkatesh, as well as officials of the district administration, arrived at the site of the protest and attempted to convince them to disperse peacefully. Police presence was also stepped up. to prevent public anger against the forest department from taking a violent turn. Mr. Venkatesh told the protesters that an order had been passed to hunt the tiger and urged them to return home so that the Forest Department could quickly act on the order to capture or eliminate the animal before anyone else is killed or injured. The order was issued as a six-day operation to capture the animal had been unfruitful. While there have been reports that the order was to terminate or eliminate the tiger, Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj clarified that shooting would be the last resort after all efforts to capture the tiger failed. All four persons that the tiger is believed to have killed were herders grazing livestock on the forest fringes. Forest Department teams from Kerala as well as Special Task Force personnel are being drafted for the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-passed-to-hunt-tiger-t23-after-it-kills-one-more-person/article36787019.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strive for early reimbursement of Rs. 2,033 cr. spent on Polavaram: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday directed the officials to expedite the construction of the Polavaram project and strive for speedy reimbursement of Rs. 2,033 crore spent by the State government. Neradi barrage He also directed the officials to speed up the works on the Veligonda second tunnel project. He also directed the officials to sort out the issues hampering the construction of the Neradi barrage with Odisha. In a review meeting on the irrigation projects, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the construction of a regulator for the Godavari and Krishna deltas (at Kolleru) should be executed without inordinate delay. Emphasis should be laid on the expansion of the Tandava project and other barrages on the Krishna, he said. Officials told the Chief Minister that the work on Gap-3 concrete dam at Polavaram had been completed and it would facilitate drawal of water to the canals by kharif next. They said the lower cofferdam works would be completed by the end of November. The Phase-2 works of the Vamsadhara project were likely to be completed by May 2022. Steps were taken to supply water from the Thotapalli barrage by the end of kharif, they added. Tandava project The officials said tenders had been called for the construction of Tandava project and the process of reverse tendering was under way. The Nellore barrage works were completed and the project was ready for inauguration in November, they said. Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strive-for-early-reimbursement-of-rs-2033-cr-spent-on-polavaram-cm/article36787377.ece
02 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Grant student scholarships promptly’||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee member Chinta Mohan on Friday urged the YSR Congress Party government to release pending scholarships to students belonging to the SC, ST, Minority and OBC communities in the State and “re-activate” the SC, ST Finance Corporation. At a press conference, the Congress leader said nearly 80 lakh students in the State were in misery in the absence of the financial aid that had not been paid to them in the last two years. “I am a beneficiary of social welfare scholarship and I know its value. I can relate to the pain and misery of the students who are denied the benefits,” he said. He said in 1974, as a 19-year-old student from Tirupati, he stood in a queue and submitted a memorandum to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, seeking enhancement of scholarships to students in social welfare institutions, and after making almost 15 such representations, full mess charges were granted by the government. He said colleges would be opened soon but students had no money for bus fares or books. “They have no money to pay fee or mess charges,” he said. Pointing to the fact that the Centre released 75% of the funds and the State’s share was 25% , he alleged that the funds were diverted, leaving the students high and dry. Finance corporation Dr. Mohan also demanded immediate steps to reactivate the SC,ST Finance Corporation, which had become defunct under the YSRCP rule. He said the corporation, an initiative of the former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was started in the State in 1975 in the composite Andhra Pradesh and people from the SC and ST communities were given loans. “I know how important these loans are as I am one of the beneficiaries,” the former Union Minister said. The senior Congress leader sought an explanation on the “version of funds” and reiterated his demand that the payment of the scholarships and revival of the SC,ST Finance Corporation should be done by November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grant-student-scholarships-promptly/article36787369.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to launch Clean AP programme today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) programme marking Gandhi Jayanthi on Saturday, by flagging off 2,600 garbage collection vehicles. The objective of the programme is to foster public participation in making the State clean, said Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said a 100-day programme was initiated to bring awareness on maintaining cleanliness in villages and cities through proper waste disposal. So far, 10,645 waste management sheds had been repaired and put to use while another 4,171 were being constructed under the NREGS. Almost 27,000 green ambassadors and 10,000 Gram Panchayat workers would take part in CLAP. A total of 14,000 tricycles would be used for collecting waste. Apart from them, 10,731 high pressure toilet cleaners, 10,628 portable thermal fogging machines and 6,417 incinerators were arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-launch-clean-ap-programme-today/article36787498.ece
02 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom expo to help weavers, artisans inaugurated||An exhibition-cum-sale of handloom products “Handloom Bazar” was inaugurated on the premises of PVP Square mall in city on Friday, by members of the Crafts Council of Andhra Pradesh. Secretary of the Council S. Ranjana said the COVID-19-induced lockdown wreaked havoc on the weavers and artisans who were in serious financial crisis. The objective of the event, coinciding with Gandhi Jayanthi, was to give them a platform to sell their products, she said. Weavers and artisans from Ponduru, Challapalli and Mangalagiri participated showcasing products of Kalamkari, Venkatagiri and other varieties. Students of Sri Durga Malleswara Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala draped in traditional handloom saris worn by their mothers and grandmothers, showcased the charm of the weaves. The organisation also conducted a quiz programme based on the history of these traditional products. The exhibition has become a cynosure of all eyes at the mall with visitors stopping by to enquire or buy the products, directly from their makers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handloom-expo-to-help-weavers-artisans/article36787370.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efforts on for smooth conduct of Badvel by-election: official||Andhra Pradesh Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand said the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) and expenditure norms would be strictly enforced during the by-election in the Badvel Assembly constituency. Police check-posts were being set up on Kadapa district borders to curb the flow of money and liquor, Mr. Vijayanand said while addressing the media at the Secretariat on Friday. Mr. Vijayanand said eight task-force and four expenditure observer teams and 21 flying squads would see if the candidates spent money within the limits. Detailed guidelines were issued in this regard by the Election Commission of India. A total of 281 polling stations were being set up and the election would be closely monitored through live-cast of the proceedings in 140-plus polling stations. Thirty sensitive polling stations were identified. Toll-free number Complaints could be lodged through toll-free number 1950, orhttps://.nvsp.in. Apart from that, videos and photographs of any incident could be sent through the cVIGIL app. Mr. Vijayanand said postal ballots would be provided to people aged above 80, differently-abled persons and those who tested positive for COVID-19. However, applications for the facility should be submitted within five days of the issue of election notification, i.e. October 1. People can register themselves as voters up to October 8. As of October 1, the total number of voters stood at 2,16,154. Criminal antecedents (if any) of the candidates should be published within 48 hours of their selection, or in at least two weeks before the first date of filing of nomination papers, as per the Supreme Court directions. COVID-19 protocols would have to be followed, failing which appropriate penal action would be taken. Mr. Vijayanand said 200 people would be allowed to participate in indoor meetings and the crowds at rallies addressed by star campaigners should be limited to 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efforts-on-for-smooth-conduct-of-badvel-by-election-official/article36787379.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kinetic Green Energy keen on setting up unit in Vizag||Kinetic Green Energy and Power Solutions Ltd. has expressed interest in setting up a premium electric vehicle manufacturing unit in Visakhapatnam and creating infrastructure such as battery making units and swapping stations in the State at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,750 crore. Company founder and CEO Sulajja Firodia Motwani and co-founder Rithesh Mantri conveyed it to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during an interaction at his camp office on Friday. The Pune-based firm had already established an electric vehicle manufacturing unit with a production capacity of 6,000 vehicles at Ahmed Nagar in Maharashtra. Special Chief Secretary (municipal administration and urban development) Y. Srilakshmi and Director of Industries J.V.N. Subrahmaniam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kinetic-green-energy-keen-on-setting-up-unit-in-vizag/article36787381.ece
02 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prashant Garg takes over as LVPEI Executive Chair||Prashant Garg has been announced as the new Executive Chair of the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI). Dr. Garg took over the new responsibility on Friday, succeeding Dr. Gullapalli N. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prashant-garg-takes-over-as-lvpei-executive-chair/article36787500.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre giving funds, State taking credit’||BJP State unit president Somu Veerraju on Friday took objection to the State government showing off the garbage collection vehicles purchased by it with Central funds as its achievement by applying to them colours with which the YSRCP is identified. Speaking to media, he said: “Much of the development that is taking place is due to the assistance provided by the Centre. The State government is struggling to even pay salaries. The YSRCP is habituated to making disparaging comments on those questioning the government’s failures.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-giving-funds-state-taking-credit/article36787499.ece
02 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Chief Secretary meets CM||Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and his predecessor Adityanath Das called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Friday. Mr. Sharma took charge on Thursday upon Mr. Das attaining superannuation. Mr. Das, who has been appointed Chief Adviser to the government, will be based at the Andhra Pradesh Bhavan in New Delhi. Before the present posting, Mr. Sharma was Special Chief Secretary (planning and resource mobilisation). Earlier, he was on deputation with the Central government as Director- General of Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Mr. Sharma had worked as Commissioner of Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam municipal corporations. He had also worked as Director of the Smart Cities Mission of the Government of India, AMRUT, and the World Bank-supported urban capacity building programme. Mr. Sharma had also worked as Managing Director of India Tourism Development Corporation. He had also been a consultant for the UN Habitat in Cambodia and the International Federation of Red Cross Societies. He had served in various capacities at the State, national and international levels in a career spanning 37 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-chief-secretary-meets-cm/article36787376.ece
02 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims 10 more lives||The State reported 10 deaths due to COVID-19 and 809 infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The daily test positivity rate was below 2% for the fifth consecutive day. In the past day, 56,463 samples were tested and 1.43% of them turned positive. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,51,133 and 14,186 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 11,142 as 1,160 patients recovered in the past day. Guntur reported three deaths while Chittoor, Krishna and Nellore reported two each and Srikakulam one. East Godavari reported 161 cases. It was followed by Chittoor (153), Nellore (115), West Godavari (93), Prakasam (83), Guntur (78), Krishna (54), Visakhapatnam (39), Kadapa (16), Srikakulam (9), Anantapur (5), Kurnool (2) and Vizianagaram (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-10-more-lives/article36787387.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||United struggle by VSP workers has shaken Centre: Raghavulu||Communist Party of India(Marxist) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu and State secretary P. Madhu visited the relay hunger strike camp of steel workers, who have been on a relay hunger strike for the past 231 days, demanding continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in the public sector, at the Kurmannapalem here on Friday. The camp, being organised under the aegis of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, continued for the 232nd day on Friday. Addressing the participants, Mr. Raghavulu said that the united and long-drawn struggles by the workers and employees as also the recent Bharat Bandh, has shaken the BJP government and it was unable to digest the success of the struggle of the VSP workers. The Centre was bound to change its decision, if the workers continued their struggles unitedly, he said. He deplored the ‘anti-worker’ and ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the BJP government. Referring to the VSP exceeding its production targets even during the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Raghavulu said that minor changes could put the steel plant on the road to profits. Mr. Madhu said that workers of various sectors were already opposing the policies of the Centre and it was high time BJP government changed its stance, failing which it would have to pay a heavy price in future. Porata committee leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, D. Adinarayana, J. Ayodhya Ram, Mastanappa, Boddu Pydiraju, Kommineni Srinivas, JRK Naidu and RHMP Department workers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/united-struggle-by-vsp-workers-has-shaken-centre-raghavulu/article36787502.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR General Manager opens escalators for public use||East Coast Railway (E Co R) General Manager Vidya Bhushan inspected Visakhapatnam railway station on Friday. The focus of the inspection was improvement of passenger amenities and enhanced passenger facilities. The escalators, provided on platform No. 4/5, were opened for public usage by the GM. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy accompanied him. Later, the GM inspected Over Head Equipment of Traction Distribution department and inaugurated the newly-constructed building of office of the Senior Section Engineer at Visakhapatnam. A plantation drive was conducted on the site to mark the Swachhta Abhiyan. Principal Chief Personnel Officer T.K. Mondal, Principal Chief Engineer N.S. Ukey, Principal Chief Operations Manager Pramod Kumar Jena and branch officers of the Waltair Division were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-general-manager-opens-escalators-for-public-use/article36787505.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||21-year-old ‘ends life’||A 21-year old youth reportedly ended his life at his residence at YSR Colony in Madhurawada area on Thursday evening. Police suspect that the youth might have taken the decision after being rejected in love. The deceased was identified as G. Raju. According to Inspector of PM Palem Police Station Ravi Kumar, Raju was working as an electrician at Anandapuram. Since the last one week, family members of Raju have observed that he had been in depression, allegedly being rejected in love. He was coming home in an inebriated condition and was claiming that he would end his life, the family members informed the police. On Thursday evening, Raju made a video call to one of his family members informing him that he was going to end his life. The kin immediately informed Raju’s mother. But when Raju's mother reached the house, he was found dead. Body was shifted to KGH for autopsy. PM Palem police have registered a case. Helpline number In case of suicidal tendencies, people can contact police helpline no. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21-year-old-ends-life/article36787509.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saurav Bhattacharya wins first Andhra Pradesh Amateur Golf Championship||Saurav Bhattacharya of the Delhi Golf Club emerged as the winner of the first Andhra Pradesh Amateur Golf Championship organised under the aegis of the Indian Golf Union (IGU), held at the East Point Golf Club(EPGC) here on Friday. Arjun Bhati of JP Greens, Noida, and Rohan Dhole Patil of Pune Golf Club were declared as the first and second runners-up. Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Chief of Staff, Eastern Naval Command, and the president of EPGC, gave away the prizes to the winners. Over 60 golfers from across the country, including five from Visakhapatnam, participated in the tourney that was organised from September 28 to October 1. Congratulating all the participants and the prize winners, Vice Admiral Dasgupta thanked the IGU for selecting EPGC for organising the maiden AP Amateur Golf Championship at Visakhapatnam. He also complimented the EPGC’s organising committee members for conducting the tournament in a professional manner, despite the heavy rains that the city had received under the impact of Cyclone Gulab. The tournament was coordinated by A.P. Golf Association president A.V, Monish Row and EPGC secretary Prashanth Sagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saurav-bhattacharya-wins-first-andhra-pradesh-amateur-golf-championship/article36787513.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fight over who’s stronger led to boy’s death’||A fight with three of his classmates after a verbal duel on ‘who is stronger’ allegedly led to the death of a Class VII student here on Thursday, preliminary investigation carried out by the police revealed. Jaswanth (13), a student of a private school in the Lalitha Nagar area of the city, had died on the school campus, and the police registered a case of suspicious death. A senior police officer said Jaswanth allegedly had a dispute with one of his classmates on who among them was stronger. They had reportedly decided to sort out the issue after school hours. Jaswanth and the three other children had left school after 4.30 p.m. and gathered at a place located about 200 metres from the school. The fight between Jaswanth and the other boy commenced soon after the two other children started the countdown. Even as the two classmates watched, the other boy landed a blow on Jaswanth’s chest, following which he immediately fell unconscious. Upon coming to know of it, the school teachers rushed to the spot and immediately shifted Jaswanth to a hospital, where he was declared “brought dead.” Jaswanth’s body was shifted to the King George Hospital (KGH) for a post-mortem examination. The school management declared a holiday for the students on Friday. Jaswanth’s family, which hails from Hiramandalam in Srikakulam district, resides in the Akkayyapalem area of the city. His father ekes out a living doing petty jobs and has another child. Meanwhile, the Fourth Town police had registered a case. The juvenile in conflict with law would be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and would be sent to the Juvenile Home, said a police officer investigating the case. Another senior police officer said the influence of action movies and social media might have had an impact on the children. The juvenile in conflict with law was learning boxing. “Parents must keep a watch on their children’s activities. Their guidance can prevent such incidents,” he said. “Every person has some kind of aggressive instincts. But children’s judgemental capacity will be less,” said psychiatrist N.N. Raju. “Many factors influence the young minds, and these include social media, movies depicting violence, unrealistic and violent video games, and societal changes,” Dr. Raju added. “Inculcating moral values along with education brings about a change,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-over-whos-stronger-led-to-boys-death/article36787388.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Convention concludes||The valedictory function of the 21st Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts-2021 concluded here on Friday. The chief guest, Rear Admiral I.B.Uthaiah, said that, quality concepts improves the thought process of employees and they can play a vital role in improving the performance of an organisation through small group activities. K.K. Ghosh, Director (Projects), RINL, and also the chairman, QCFI Visakhapatnam Chapter, said that constant learning and continual improvement should be the focus of every individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/convention-concludes/article36787412.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC to organise temple tour from October 23||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will organise South India Temple Tour special air package from Visakhapatnam, starting on October 23 and ending on October 27. The places to be covered include: Meenakshi Amman temple in Madurai, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial and Dhanushkodi, Ramalingaswamy temple in Rameshwaram and Padmanabhaswamy temple and Kovalam Beach in Trivandrum. The cost per head for single occupancy is Rs. 33,145, for double occupancy is Rs. 24,660 and for triple occupancy is Rs. 23,760. The package includes air tickets in economy class in IndiGo airlines, night accommodation in 3 Star hotels, return airport transfers and sightseeing by AC transportation and breakfast and dinners, according to Chandra Mohan Bisa, Area Officer, IRCTC South Central Zone, Visakhapatnam. More details can be had from the IRCTC Office, Main Entrance, Gate no.1, Visakhaptnam Railway Station. Interested persons can also contact Mr. Chandan on 8287932318, Gananadha on 8387932281 or Hyma on 7670908300 or on the office landline no. 0891-2500695. They can also log on towww.irctctourism.comfor details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctcs-temple-tour-from-october-23/article36787373.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Update knowledge using new technologies’||The graduation ceremony of the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Medical College was held at GITAM Deemed to be University campus, here on Saturday. Global Hospitals Group Chairman Ravinadranath Kancherla attended the programme as the chief guest.Dr. Ravindranath said that rapidly increasing patient volumes and scope of healthcare needs, alongside technological innovations, are accelerating the need for a digitally enabled workforce to deliver the future of healthcare. He advised the medical graduates to update their knowledge using new technologies. GITAM president M.Sri Bharat said that the COVID-19 has stressed upon the need to focus on healthcare research to face the future pandemics. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna, GIMSR Pro Vice-Chancellor C.V. Rao and others participated in the programme. A total of 111 students received their degrees. K.Venkateswara Rao was conferred the GITAM presidential gold medal for the best outgoing student of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/update-knowledge-using-new-technologies/article36787514.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khadi fair to be organised at BJP office today||A khadi fair is being organised at the BJP office at Lawson’s Bay Colony on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi on Saturday. Addressing the media here on Friday, MLC P.V.N. Madhav underlined the importance of safeguarding the livelihood of artisans and handloom weavers apart from preventing the rich traditions from extinction. Referring to the controversy on the statements of Pawan Kalyan, he said that politics has taken a new low with the statements and counter statements during the past few days. He alleged that the Ministers were making personal comments against Mr. Pawan Kalyan, unable to answer the issues raised by him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/khadi-fair-to-be-organised-at-bjp-office-today/article36787504.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First onion special train leaves Vizag||The first onion special train left Visakhapatnam to Jalalgarh in Katihar Division of Northeast Frontier Railway and it was flagged off by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy on Friday. The train, an initiative of team of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway, set on its maiden journey as a pilot project. The train contains 10 parcel van coaches each having a capacity to carry 23 tons of onions and two second class-cum-luggage coaches having carrying capacity of 8 tons. On its maiden run the train carried 246 tons of onions from Visakhapatnam to Jalalgarh in Purnia district of Bihar. The Business Development Unit of Waltair Division worked out to help the farmers of this region, where farmers are facing difficulties in transportation of onions in safe and faster mode. Onion farmers from this region and nearby areas loaded their produce on the train. The train initiative is taken by the Waltair Division so that onion farmers get a fair price for their produce apart from transporting in the minimum time. The closed parcel vans will also protect the onion from rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-onion-special-train-leaves-vizag/article36787508.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Around 1,600 students attend job fair||Around 1,600 students attended the job fair which was organised jointly by Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) and Avanthi Institute of Engineering and Technology, at Makavarapalem in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. Principal C. Mohan Rao said that 28 companies, including Miracle Software Systems, Trigeo Technologies Pvt. Ltd, Beedata Technologies, Vensai Technologies and Deccan Fine Chemicals, took part in the job fair. Among them, around 800 students were placed in vacancies of various companies. Appointment letters were handed over to the students who got placements. Earlier, founder-chairman of the college and Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao stressed upon the need for improving communication skills among the students. He said that despite having knowledge on technical and core subjects, many students from rural areas are not able to succeed in placements due to poor communication skills. Anakapalle MP B Satyavathi and Narsipatnam MLA P Uma Shankar Ganesh lauded Avanthi group of colleges and APSSDC for organising the job fair. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and NTPC General Manager Deepak Kaushik were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/around-1600-students-attend-job-fair/article36787510.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10,552 eye surgeries done this year, says Sankar Hospital||Sankar Foundation Eye Hospital conducted 10,552 eye surgeries and 853 retina surgeries during the first half of 2021-22 fiscal, and a majority of them were performed under government schemes. The achievement was possible due to the committed efforts of the doctors and paramedical staff of the hospital KBN Manimala, Managing Trustee and CEO of Sankar Foundation, commended the State government for its support to the hospital, particularly, the government paramedical ophthalmic officers, who were instrumental in the successful implementation of Dr. YSR Arogysree and Dr. YSR Kantivelugu programme for screening and mobilsing identified patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. She said that the hospital was continuing its services to beneficiaries under the two schemes and working towards the goal of cataract blind-free in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10552-eye-surgeries-done-this-year-says-sankar-hospital/article36787414.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fancy dress contest tomorrow||On the occasion of World Wildlife Week, 2021, the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park is going to conduct fancy dress competition for the children aged between 4 and 17 years on the theme of animals on October 3. The programme will be organised at the Bioscope in IGZP, at 11 a.m. Zoo Curator Nandani Salaria said that children can dress up like any one animal that is housed in the zoo as per their wish and have to perform some activity related to that animal. For more details, interested can contact the Public Relation Officer on 9441130894 or 9440810213.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fancy-dress-contest-tomorrow/article36787409.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports 39 new COVID cases and 45 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 39 new COVID-19 cases during the last 24 hours ending Friday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,194. During the same period, 45 persons recovered from the coronavirus. The death toll stands at 1,088 as no COVID-19 death was reported since September 26. Meanwhile, the number of persons, who received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, is inching towards 40 lakh and stands at 39.70 lakh. Among them, 12.19 lakh received both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-reports-39-new-cases/article36787411.ece
02 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gear up for Sirimanotsavam||The Vizianagaram district administration is making elaborate arrangements for Sri Pydimamba temple’s celestial procession, Sirimanotsavam, to be celebrated on October 19 this year. ‘Tholellu utsavam’, will also be celebrated on October 18, one day before the procession in which normally two lakh people participate every year. With the spread of COVID-19, devotees were not directly allowed to participate in the procession. The government has not yet taken any decision over the participation of people in the procession although it had conducted a meeting with representatives of various organisations. Meanwhile, the temple authorities have been busy in making arrangements for the festival. They identified the huge tree in Chandakapeta of Denkada mandal and it will be brought to Vizianagaram on Saturday after performing puja in a traditional manner. The identification of tree is given a lot of importance in festival arrangements as it it is treated as a ‘Siri manu’ on which the temple priest would sit and bless the people during the procession. BJP Vizianagaram Mahila Morcha president Gandikota Santhi urged the government to allow devotees to participate in the procession while making them to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “Entire business activity is allowed in Vizianagaram. It is not fair to stop the people from offering prayers to the local goddess Sri Pydimamba. The government should respect the sentiments of Hindus who were already offended with the ban on Vinayaka Chaviti in public places,” she added. The officials said that there was no restriction on the visit of the temple and offering of ‘traditional ghatams’ in the festival days which started two weeks ago. They indicated that the government likely to celebrate the Sirimanotsavam without direct participation of devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gear-up-for-sirimanotsavam/article36787408.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB grills accused in CMRF scam||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) are questioning the four accused persons who have been arrested on charges of misappropriating money from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). Hearing a petition filed by ACB officials, the court sent the accused to three days’ police custody beginning from September 30 to October 2, ACB Joint Director P.V. Ravi Kumar said. The accused allegedly swindled over Rs. 60 lakh since 2014-15, it is alleged. Following a complaint lodged by CMRF officials, the ACB sleuths on September 22 arrested Ch. Subramanyam, who was posted as an office subordinate in the CMRF wing of the Secretariat, K. Jagadish, a private PA to MLAs in East Godavari district, and Ch. Murali Krishna and S. Ramesh, posted as office subordinates in the Revenue Section of the Secretariat. The ACB are trying to ascertain whether any more CMRF employees were involved in the scam, Mr. Ravi Kumar said. An amount of Rs. 1,81,78,000 was sanctioned for 88 suspicious medical claims, of which Rs. 61,68,000 was credited to 35 claims in the last seven years, the investigation officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-grills-accused-in-cmrf-scam/article36787365.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infusing life into idol||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infusing-life-into-idol/article36787512.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decked-up/article36787372.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dr. NT Subramanyam gold medal presented||Dr. Chinthada Sruthi Keerthi bagged the seventh annual Dr NT Subramanyam annual gold medal award for excellence in clinical neurology. The gold medal was presented to her by Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar on Friday. Dr. S Sreenivas, HOD of general medicine, presided over the meeting. Dr. P Mythili, Superintendent, KGH, and Dr. G. Butchraju, HOD of neurology, spoke on the occasion. Dr. S.N.R. Naveen and Dr. R. Vikram Vardhan conducted the proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dr-nt-subramanyam-gold-medal-presented/article36787507.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana plans to set up Green Fund||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has proposed setting up a Green Fund in the State “to develop a sense of participation and involvement by all sections” to improve greenery as a sustainable development goal and utilise the amount for scaling up government efforts. The announcement was made during the short discussion taken up in the Assembly on ‘Haritha Haram’ programme in Telangana on Friday. He stated that forest/green cover development is the most neglected area in the country from the beginning and it has become inevitable with the increasing phenomenon of global warming. NAC model On the lines of the contribution for skill development programmes taken up by the National Academy of Construction (NAC) here with collection of 0.1% amount from the worth of all contracts (works) executed in the State, an equal percentage (0.1%) would be collected for the Green Fund. Stating that charity should begin from home, the Chief Minister said that all MLAs, MLCs and MPs from the State would contribute Rs. 500 per month from their salary and added that TRS legislators and MPs had already given their consent. Similarly, the All India Service officers – IAS, IPS, IFS and other officers – have agreed to contribute Rs. 100 per month from their salary and gazetted officers (TGOs), non-gazetted officers (TNGOs) and teachers’ unions have agreed to chip in with a contribution of Rs. 25 per month for the green cause from their salary. Further, KCR proposed collection of Rs. 1,000 each on every licence renewal, Rs. 50 each on every land transaction and Rs. 5 to Rs. 100 contribution by students at the time of admission – Rs. 5 for primary school, Rs. 15 for high school, Rs. 25 for Intermediate, Rs. 50 for undergraduate and Rs. 100 for post-graduate and professional courses. Floor leaders of all other political parties in the Legislative Assembly, AIMIM, Congress and BJP welcomed the initiative and felt that every time an employee, officer or a student sees a growing sapling planted, they would have sense a pride that they too have some contribution in it. UN recognition On the success of Telangana Ku Haritha Haram programme launched in July 2015, he said that the United Nations had recognised it as the third largest human effort to improve the green cover after the ongoing plantation for Great Green Wall of China in Gobi Desert for 5,000 km length and reforestation of Amazon rain forests taken up by Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-plans-to-set-up-green-fund/article36787233.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||An enviable philately collection on the Mahatma||Stamp collection is a common hobby among people of all ages but having a thematic collection of philately material is an art in itself. Upender Vennem, an Indian Postal Services Officer, presently Chief Vigilance Officer in Bharat Dynamics Limited, stands out for his personal collection of philatelic material containing the quotes of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi. “As a postal officer, I had organised a few philatelic exhibitions. Initially, I was passive towards stamp collecting. It was only when I was involved in State-level Philatelic Exhibition in Vijayawada during 2014 that it occurred to me why should I not collect stamps,” said Mr. Upender. The 1999 batch IPoS officer has built a collection of over 500 A4 sheets of philately material from across the world. Some of his significant collection are The Story of Ramayana (80 A4 size sheets), Study of Animals, Plants and Society in Valmiki Ramayana(80 A4 size sheets), Poets of World including Nobel Laureates (80 A4 size sheets from over 100 countries, Indian Poets and Writer (80 A4 size sheets), Quotes of Mahatma Gandhi - A Philatelic Tribute (80 A4 size sheets),The Ganges-A Flowing River Goddess (80 A4 size sheets), The Mahabharata, Lord Hanuman and Philatelic Fragrance of Telugu Land. The theme of collecting stamps on Gandhi was very popular, he said noting that the philatelic material containing quotations of Gandhi was not readily available. The stamps on Mahatma Gandhi issued during August 15, 1948, on the eve of India’s first anniversary of Independence were significant ones. Over 120 countries had issued stamps on Gandhi during his 150th birth anniversary, he noted. Elaborating on the philatelic material containing quotes of Mahatma Gandhi , he said the quote “Sabko Sammathi De Bhagvan” were difficult to secure. A total of 249 quotes were used in building up philatelic exhibit on Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-enviable-philately-collection-on-the-mahatma/article36787223.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Land will be taken from the poor only if inevitable: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told the Assembly on Friday that the State government would not resume lands given to the poor (Dalit communities) unless it was inevitable and if at all it was taken the title holder would get regular compensation given for land acquisition on a par with others. He stated that there were standing instructions to all the authorities concerned to pay regulation compensation to the assigned lands resumed, if inevitable, for public purposes such as projects and industries or other community needs. In response to plea of members D. Anasuya alias Seethakka, M. Bhatti Vikramarka, Podem Veeriah (all Congress) and M. Raghunandan Rao (BJP) made during the short discussion on Haritha Haram, the Chief Minister said he would lead an all-party delegation to Delhi on the ‘podu’ (forest lands in cultivation by tribals) lands at the earliest. The members brought to the notice of the House that forest officials were attacking tribals at several places for doing ‘podu’ cultivation. The Chief Minister stated that there were disputes between revenue and forest departments at several places over the ownership of lands and the survey of entire land planned by the government would resolve such issues by giving geographical coordinates to every bit of land. According to an estimate, the extent of ‘podu’ lands was about 7 lakh acres in the State and the Cabinet Sub-Committee headed by Minister Satyavathi Rathod was looking into it. Making it clear that title given under Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) Act would not give complete ownership of the land to those in its possession but would only allow forest-like cultivation, the Chief Minister said ROFR titles were given to 96,676 tribals for 3.48 lakh acres in the past by keeping 2005 as the cut-off date for having the land possession. However, it was required to be increased to give titles to others seeking for rights later. The Chief Minister said it could be done only after identification of native tribals since Lambadas from Maharashtra were trespassing and encroaching on forest lands in erstwhile Adilabad district by migrating here and getting native and caste certificates illegally here for reservation and other benefits besides chopping forests for cultivation. Similarly, Gothi Koyas from Chhattisgarh were doing the same in the erstwhile Khammam and Warangal districts, harming the interests of local tribes. He also assured the House of passing a resolution on the issue before taking the matter to the Centre’s notice along with the need to transfer back a few villages, out of seven mandals of erstwhile Khammam district merged with Andhra Pradesh without Telangana’s consent after formation of the State, as it left no land for even last rites/burial for some villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-to-be-taken-from-poor-if-inevitable/article36787235.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Steps under way to remove imbalances in State: KCR||Asserting that his government is committed to ensuring comprehensive all-round development of villages across the State, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that steps were under way to remove imbalances to ensure their planned development. The Chief Minister took a dig at the Opposition Congress for their charges on diversion of funds allotted by the Centre under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme claiming that the Opposition charges were far from truth. Elaborating on the development achieved in the villages under the TRS government, he said the government was prepared to provide account for each rupee spent during the past seven years. He requested Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy to allow a special debate on the Palle and Pattana Pragati schemes launched by the government so that an effective message went to people on the progress ushered in through the pro-active policies being implemented in the State. Mr. Rao intervened in the discussion during the Question Hour when the Congress leaders expressed doubts over diversion of gram panchayat funds including Rs. 15,738 crore released by the Centre intended for panchayats under the employment guarantee scheme. “Should it be construed as lack of awareness of the members (Congress)? I am surprised at the way they are making the remarks. I can only pity them,” the Chief Minister said. He wondered how the Congress leaders were making the comments at a time when the Central Ministers as well as policy making bodies like NITI Ayog appreciated Telangana for the rapid strides it had made in development at grassroots level. “The per head grant for panchayats was Rs. 4 during the 10-year Congress rule. The grant in our time has crossed Rs. 650. That is the difference,” he said. On the charge that the Central releases were being diverted, he said there was nothing like the Central Government releasing funds to the State by itself. The Financial Commission, a constitutional body recommends to the Centre devolution of funds to States and the Centre discharges its Constitutional obligations accordingly. “There will be an elaborate debate in the House in a couple of days on the releases from the Centre and economic trends. The government is prepared to clarify each and every single doubt of the members,” he said. He explained that the government took a policy decision to enact the new Panchayat Raj Act which had provisions for accelerated development of villages. “In spite of the financial implications of COVID-19 pandemic, we have directed the departments concerned not to stop release of funds to panchayats,” he said. Responding to Congress member D. Sridhar Babu’s charge that funds generated by the gram panchayats were being diverted, the Chief Minister said it was a policy decision to ensure balanced development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-steps-under-way-to-remove-imbalances/article36787238.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Assembly passes four Bills||The Legislative Assembly on Friday passed four Bills to amend the existing Acts on Housing Board, Horticultural University, NALSAR University and Panchayat Raj with a voice vote. The Bill to amend the Telangana Housing Board was aimed at making it an arm/department of the government as the existing Act has no clarity on it, to nominate three members from Telangana instead of one each of Telangana, Rayalaseema and Andhra Regions and holding of properties on behalf of the State government instead on its own. Minister for Housing V. Prashanth Reddy stated that a decision would be taken on Rajiv Swagruha flats in the city soon. Another Bill was passed to amend Horticultural University Act for introducing new courses at Diploma, UG and PG level including affiliation to private colleges. One more Bill was passed on increasing the quota for local (Telangana) students in the NALSAR University. The Bill to amend PR Act was passed to bring down the time limit regarding taking action against elected representatives of rural local bodies for not submitting election expenditure and also on renaming of villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/assembly-passes-four-bills/article36787236.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saplings have 85-95% survival rate, says CM||The State government has claimed the survival rate of saplings planted under Telangana Ku Haritha Haram programme at 85% to 95% so far, and targets in forest areas and outside have been crossed except for rejuvenation of plantation through the root stock with the help of watershed. Speaking during the short discussion on Haritha Haram in the Assembly on Friday after the reply by Minister for Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that against the target of planting 230 crore saplings so far, 20.64 crore saplings were planted in forest areas, 14.5 crore in the GHMC and HMDA areas and 162.77 crore outside the forest and other areas. Besides, saplings were also planted in avenues called block plantation, urban and rural parks and institutions. However, of the 80 crore target to rejuvenate plantation through root stock in the forest areas, the achievement was 42.42 crore and the work on rejuvenating the remaining root stock plantation was in progress. On expenditure for Haritha Haram, the Chief Minister said that Rs. 6,555 crore was spent on the programme so far, including Rs. 1,112 crore from budget, Rs. 1,320 crore from Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) funds, Rs. 3,673 crore from NREGS, Rs. 367 crore from HMDA and Rs. 83 crore from GHMC. In addition, Rs. 1,256 crore was also available from out the green budget of gram panchayats (Rs. 415.5 crore) and urban local bodies (Rs. 841 crore). On the development of rural parks – ‘palle prakruti vanalu’, he said 19,472 habitations have such parks spread over 13,657 acres now. At mandal level – ‘bruhat prakruti vanalu’, parks were developed in 526 mandals over 71,178 acres and it towns and cities 53 out of 109 urban parks planned over 75,740 acres were completed. On CAMPA funds, he said that Centre had nothing do with the money as the amount was deposited by States in lieu of acquisition of forest land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/saplings-have-85-95-survival-rate-says-cm/article36787234.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine shortage hits mobile inoculation drive||Vaccine shortage and lack of coordination between GHMC and Health Department have hit the initiative by the State government to get the city totally vaccinated against COVID-19, through intensive mobile vaccination drive. The drive, being carried out by the Medical & Health Department in conjunction with GHMC for more than a month now, has come to an abrupt halt at several locations due to lack of vaccine supply. Directed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, the special drive for mass vaccination was launched on August 23, with the aim of achieving 100% vaccinated status. Plan of action As per the plan of action, teams of health workers and GHMC workers were to conduct a door-to-door survey of households in the given area, and enumerate the details of persons requiring vaccination. The unvaccinated persons were to be encouraged to get their vaccine by approaching the mobile vaccination centre in the area. Each team constituted at circle level had been given the target of 1,000 households per day. Certificates were being given to the colonies where 100% vaccination was completed. The drive was carried out well for the first couple of weeks, with majority of the targeted 4,846 colonies declared 100% vaccinated. However, there were several people left out of the drive, due to various reasons, including vaccine hesitancy. “We could vaccinate up to 90% of the people, though several are still left out. A few families went out of the city, locking their homes. Some others could not be vaccinated as they had been infected just before the drive was taken up. We are in the process of a mop up drive, when the vaccine supply has started to dwindle,” shared an official. Vaccine arrivals have hit an impasse for the past two weeks, another official said, vouching that the past two days have not seen any. Several people visiting the vaccination centres are being returned by the officials. However, vaccination is still on in the primary health centres and area hospitals. “Though the government has set up additional vaccination centres as part of the drive, health staff remain the same, whether it is PHCs or mobile centres,” another official said, indicating staff shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-shortage-hits-mobile-inoculation-drive/article36787228.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to invite tenders for Sangameshwara, Basaweshwara LISs||The State government is gearing up to invite tenders for the Sangameshwara and Basaweshwara lift irrigation schemes aimed at facilitating irrigation water to over 3.8 lakh acres in the united Medak district. Preparation of detailed project reports for the two schemes is completed and the government has decided to mobilise the funds required for the projects as loan from the NABARD. The cost of Sangameshwara scheme envisaged to irrigate 2.19 lakh acres is estimated at Rs. 2,653 crore and that of Basaweshwara scheme to irrigate 1.65 lakh acres is Rs. 1,774 crore, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said. Replying on behalf of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the Question Hour on Friday, he said the tenders were likely to be invited within two months and this would be followed in laying of foundation stone for the projects by the CM. The Manjeera Lift Irrigation Corporation would mobilise the required loans from NABARD. He said Sangameshwara scheme envisaged provision of irrigation water to 231 villages in 11 mandals lifting 12 tmcft water from Singur project. The Basaweshwara scheme on its part would cater to irrigation needs of 166 villages in eight mandals lifting 8 tmcft water. Replying to another question on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said the State’s share of Gross State Domestic Product to the Gross Domestic Product had increased to 4.97% in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-invite-tenders-for-sangameshwara-basaweshwara-liss/article36787423.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protest over move to give stadium land to TIMS||Hundreds of athletes and their parents staged a demonstration in Gachibowli, demanding that the Telangana government withdraw the move to allot five acres of the GMC Balayogi Stadium sports complex here to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). In a letter addressed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the GMC Balayogi Stadium Athletes (Parents) Association said on Friday, “If the five acres is allotted to TIMS, many athletes, including archers, will be badly affected. More importantly, the COVID-19 pandemic has sent a strong message that fitness is the key to ward off any virus and this move by the government is contradictory to this considered opinion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-over-move-to-give-stadium-land-to-tims/article36787418.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TREDA property show begins||The three-day property show by Telangana Real Estate Developers Association (TREDA) was launched by actor-producer Naga Shaurya at Hitex Exhibition Centre here on Friday. TREDA president R. Chalapathi Rao said there are about 500 properties to choose from. Entry is free and the show is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/treda-property-show-begins/article36787225.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||G. N. Rao steps down as LVPEI chairman||Dr. Gullapalli N. Rao on Friday stepped down as founder chairman of L.V. Prasad Eye Institute after heading the premier eye hospital for over three decades. He will be succeeded by Dr. Prashant Garg as executive chairman while Dr. Rao will continue to be a mentor of the institute. Founded in 1987 Dr. Rao had founded the institute here in 1987 as an eye health facility and it gradually expanded its network to 237 centres in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka to become a World Health Organisation (WHO) collaborating centre for prevention of blindness. Dr. Garg joined the institute in 1996 as a cornea expert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/g-n-rao-steps-down-as-lvpei-chairman/article36787230.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||M. Srinivas Rao is new CEO of T Hub||M Srinivas Rao, a serial entrepreneur, on Friday was named new T - HUB Chief Executive Officer. Information Technology Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan made the announcement on Twitter. “And so the baton passes__ we bid farewell to@ravignarayanCEO of@THubHydand welcome M Srinivas Rao as new CEO. A graduate of OU Engg & IIM B, a serial entrepreneur, co-founder of cybersecurity firm-Aujas, and a champion of innovation; wishing both of you all the best,” Mr Ranjan tweeted. Mr Rao succeeds former CEO Ravi Narayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/m-srinivas-rao-is-new-ceo-of-t-hub/article36787231.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Most wanted’ property offender held||A ‘most wanted’ property offender involved in over 100 cases in five southern States was arrested by the Mancherial police here on Thursday night. The accused, Venkayya alias Venkanna, 44, a kirana shop owner from Korati Padu in Guntur district, was caught by the police during searches in ACC area of Mancherial town. “We found a man approaching ACC area in a car and on suspicion our teams intercepted his vehicle. He tried to escape but was caught and on questioning revealed that he was the most wanted offender in south India,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (Mancherial) Akhil Mahajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-wanted-property-offender-held/article36787422.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR, KTR in list of TRS star campaigners||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao are among the 20 star campaigners of TRS for the Huzurabad Assembly byelection, according to the list submitted by the party to the Election Commission. The other 18 in the list comprised Ministers T. Harish Rao, Gangula Kamalakar and Koppula Eashwar and legislators Palla Rajeswara Reddy, Sunke Ravishanker, Balka Suman, Challa Dharma Reddy, V. Satish Kumar, Guvvala Balaraj, Aroori Ramesh, Pochampally Srinivas Reddy, Nannapaneni Narender, Peddi Sudarshan Reddy, Sandra Venkataveeraiah, Dasari Manohar Reddy and Naradasu Laxman Rao. Former Minister E. Peddi Reddy who recently joined TRS and a Zilla Parishad chairperson Kanumalla Vijaya were the remaining two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-ktr-in-list-of-trs-star-campaigners/article36787239.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs 220 COVID cases||COVID positive cases in Telangana continue to hover around the 200-mark with 220 fresh cases being detected and results of another 1,295 tests yet to come by on Friday. There was one fatality, taking the official death toll to 3,919. A total of 46,193 tests were conducted as against 46,190 the previous day. The new cases includes 67 from GHMC region, 18 from Warangal, 15 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 14 each from Rangareddy and Karimnagar and 10 from Mancherial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-logs-220-covid-cases/article36787226.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco Pharma launches anti-cancer generic drug in U.S.||Natco Pharma on Friday said marketing partner Breckenridge Pharmaceutical Inc. has launched 10 mg strength of Everolimus Tablets (generic for Afinitor) in the US market. The drug is used in the treatment of certain cancer. USFDA had previously granted final approval for this ANDA. The 10mg strength of Afinitor had generated annual sales of $392 million during the twelve months ending July 2021, it said citing industry sales data. Breckenridge launched Everolimus tablets 2.5mg, 5mg and 7.5mg strengths during the first quarter of 2021 in the US.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/natco-pharma-launches-anti-cancer-generic-drug-in-us/article36787219.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. protest on joblessness kicks off today||After generating enough heat with the Dalita Girijana Dandora, the Congress has now set its eye on the unemployment issue with a two-month long programme starting on Gandhi Jayanthi. Named as ‘Vidyarthi Nirudyoga Jung Siren’ it will end on December 9 marking the announcement of separate Telangana by the Congress and also Sonia Gandhi’s birthday. TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy along with AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore will start the programme at Dilsukhnagar with a massive rally. Appealing to students and youngsters to participate in large numbers, Mr. Reddy said Congress wants to ‘expose’ the ruling TRS on how it ‘deceived students’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-protests-programme-on-unemployed-youth-kicks-off-today/article36787241.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Director of Telugu Akademi shifted||The director of scam-hit Telugu Akademi M. Somi Reddy was transferred by the government on administrative grounds on Friday. He was replaced by Director of School Education department A. Sridevasena, who will hold full additional charge of the post in the akademi, a government said. Mr. Reddy was also holding full additional charge of the director’s post so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/director-of-telugu-akademi-shifted/article36787220.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jail term stayed||Telangana High Court on Friday passed an interim direction suspending the jail term of two months awarded to Kumram Bheem Asifabad Collector Rahul Raj and two other district officials in a contempt of court matter. The order was passed after hearing an appeal filed by the three officials challenging the single judge order. The judge held them guilty of depriving rights over 10 acres of land belonging to two women in Chintala Manepalle without conducting any land acquisition proceedings or payment of compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-suspends-jail-term/article36787242.ece
02 October 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘AIIMS Bibinagar will emerge as a hub for modern medicine’||Governor of Haryana Bandaru Dattatreya expressed confidence that the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bibinagar, would emerge as a hub of modern medicine. Mr. Dattareya, joined by Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, District Collector Pamela Satpathy and executives of AIIMS, on Friday inaugurated the Institute’s academic blocks. The governor felicitated the AIIMS Bibinagar team led by executive director Dr. Vikas Bhatia for services during the COVID-19 crisis, and in the vaccination drive following it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aiims-bibinagar-will-emerge-as-a-hub-for-modern-medicine/article36787424.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Republic’ movie review: Deva Katta and Sai Dharam Tej deliver a gripping drama that isn’t escapist||Actor Sai Dharam Tej who plays District Collector Panja Abhiram in director Deva Katta’s socio-political drama Republic , is aware of the grim reality. He wants to facilitate clean administration and states that he is not Bharateeyudu or Aparichitudu to triumph over evil like a hero. This statement pre-empts what writers Deva Katta and Kiran Jay Kumar have in store. The narrative sidesteps escapist entertainment that we usually see in mainstream films. Sure, Panja Abhiram is bestowed with extra power as an experiment, after his answers jolt senior members who interview him in the civil services interview. He is also cushioned from being transferred indiscriminately by the political powers. That sets the stage for a heady conflict with Visakha Vani (Ramya Krishna) who has the State under her thumb. The story is set in Eluru and its vicinity where the water bodies have been exploited for decades, rendering the land unfit for cultivation and the contaminated fish threatening human lives.  Republic uses this environment-agrarian crisis to raise questions, including police encounters of those accused of sexual crimes. Will the same method be followed if one of the accused has political connections? There’s a lot to observe and appreciate in Republic . But it could have ended differently. A little hope doesn’t hurt.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/republic-movie-review-deva-katta-and-sai-dharam-tej-deliver-a-gripping-drama-that-isnt-escapist/article36787420.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Nation remembers Gandhi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nation-remembers-gandhi/article36787426.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Release juveniles if petty offences pending for over 1 year, orders HC||Terming the high pendency of cases pertaining to petty offences committed by juveniles “completely unacce-ptable”, the Delhi High Court ordered immediate release of those minors whose case inquiry remain inconclusive for longer than one year. A Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani gave the direction after taking into account a submission by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights that 1,903 inquiries against juveniles relating to petty offences were pending before Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs) in the Capital as on June 30, 2021. “And in all cases alleging petty offences against children/juveniles, where the inquiry has been pending and remains inconclusive for longer than one year, regardless of whether the subject child/juvenile has been produced before the JJB, all such inquiries shall stand terminated with immediate effect,” the High Court ordered. It said a formal order closing all such matters shall be passed by the JJBs in each file within two weeks from the date of the High Court’s order passed on September 29. “Any children/juveniles detained in relation to such inquiries shall be released immediately without waiting for recording the formal orders,” the court said. ‘Automatic termination’ Section 14 of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act) mandates automatic termination of inquiries against a minor alleged to be in conflict with law in case of “petty offences” if the probe remains “inconclusive” even after four months, and a maximum extension of two months, from the date of first production of the child before the JJB. However, for any inquiry to begin, the authorities have to first determine the age of the subject. The High Court said the process of age determination itself takes substantial time, because of which matters remain pending before JJBs for even longer than the maximum six-month period prescribed in Section 14. Worse still, in the past several months, by reason of truncated functioning of courts due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, juveniles are not being produced before the JJBs at all, either in-person or through videoconferencing. Since it was understood that the time of four months stipulated in Section 14 would begin to run after the date of first production of the child before the JJB, hundreds of matters, including petty offences, have been stuck at various stages for much longer than four months. The court opined that “even the mere pendency of an inquiry against a child is certainly stigmatic and impacts the dignity of the child”. “Since Section 14 contemplates a maximum of six months within which the entire inquiry must be completed, it cannot be said that the six-month period would only commence once the subject is declared to be a child,” the court said, adding that the age determination process must be completed within the four-month period, extendible by two months.  Any juveniles detained in relation to such inquiries shall be released immediately without waiting for recording the formal orders   Delhi High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/release-juveniles-if-petty-offences-pending-for-over-1-year-orders-hc/article36787125.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Religious places in city open doors for devotees||Religious places in the Capital were permitted to reopen for devotees from Friday till mid-October, subject to strict adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order. All places of worship in the city were closed for devotees for over five months following the imposition of the lockdown during the second wave of COVID-19 infections. Large gatherings and congregations, however, were not allowed by the authority, which, on Thursday, had given the go-ahead for holding Durga Puja celebrations and festive events such as Ramlilas. The standard operating procedure for religious places include allowing entry to only asymptomatic persons, use of face masks, avoiding common mats for prayers and staggering devotees. The order also reiterated that Chhath Puja be observed by devotees at home and activities related to the festival would not be allowed at public places. Tiwari alleges ‘bias’ North East Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari accused the Delhi government and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of exhibiting a discriminatory approach towards the significant Poorvanchali population residing in the city by prohibiting the Chhath Puja and issued an ultimatum to both demanding a rethink. Mr. Tiwari chaired a meeting with representatives of Chhath Puja committees to chart the way forward in demanding that the government allow the observance of the festival at public places like other festive events. While addressing the representatives, Mr. Tiwari questioned why Delhi was the only city to “prohibited Chhath Puja”. “1.80 crores have also got the COVID vaccine in Delhi…Weekly market, metro, bus, theatre, liquor contracts etc. are all open.. Then why can people not celebrate Chhath by following COVID rules @ArvindKejriwal? Meet immediately and give solution to this...[sic]” Mr. Tiwari tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/religious-places-in-city-open-doors-for-devotees/article36787135.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mantras for Positive Ageing shared at book launch||Ageing has five dimensions: chronological, physiological, emotional, intellectual and spiritual, said Karan Singh, politician and scholar, adding that at 90 he felt stronger in capacity on some of these counts than earlier. He was speaking at the release of Mantras for Positive Ageing , an anthology of first-person accounts of several eminent personalities on ageing positively, productively and gracefully, at the India International Centre here on Friday. The hybrid event, coinciding with the International Day of Older Persons, was held in collaboration with the Guild of Service. Dr. Singh, the chief guest at the event, elaborated the five aspects of growing, with emphasis on the need for “some kind of spiritual quest in life”. He added that all must try and delve deeper into their own self and have a spiritual goal. “It is better late than never,” said Dr. Singh, also one of the contributors to the book. He also praised the Guild of Service for its wide range of work in terms of “geographical and social coverage”. Fifty personal mantras With a foreword by spiritual leader Dalai Lama, the book, published by Pippa Rann Publications, contains fifty personal mantras of people, including environmental activist late Sunderlal Bahuguna, economist and scholar Devaki Jain, acclaimed theatre and film actor Sushma Seth, political leader and diplomat Mani Shankar Aiyar and gender rights activist Syeda Hameed, among others.  Dr. Mohini Giri, chairperson, Guild of Service, who also edited the book along with gender rights activist Meera Khanna, said she was “happy to have a few of the authors among the audience”, but “sad that some were not in the world”. Remembering late Kamla Bhasin, Dr. Giri said she could not tell “what she didn’t do” and read out one of her poems celebrating death. She also spoke about Durga Deshmukh, one of the contributors, who passed away just a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mantras-for-positive-ageing-shared-at-book-launch/article36787139.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air quality body directs States to video monitor construction work||Construction projects in Delhi, National Capital Region and adjoining States will have to install equipment that will allow the authorities to monitor if the projects are complying with norms to curb air pollution, according to a directive by the Commission for Air Quality and Management (CAQM). The CAQM is an executive body set up to oversee measures to curb air pollution in the Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. In a directive on Thursday, the CAQM said that all the projects (on plot area equal to or greater than 500 square metres) of construction and demolition under the territorial jurisdiction of Urban Local Bodies in the NCR would have to mandatorily register themselves at a dedicated web portal. Monitoring mechanism Those involved in construction activities also have to ensure “video fencing”, meaning that they would have to set up cameras on site, with streaming that can be viewed via the web portal. It would thus be possible for the authorities to monitor compliance “round the clock”. They would also have to install reliable and low-cost PM2.5 and PM10 sensors at the Construction and Demolition (C&D) project sites. “This technological shift will not only help the project proponents to self-audit and certify compliance of stipulated dust control measures but also strengthen monitoring of dust control measures at C&D sites. The project proponents are also expected to upload the self-declaration on a fortnightly basis. Further, directions have been issued to Delhi Pollution Control Committee and other State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) of National Capital Region to strictly monitor compliance of dust mitigation measures by project proponents,” the CAQM said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-body-directs-states-to-video-monitor-construction-work/article36787137.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four arrested for running illegal international telephone exchange||The Delhi police have arrested four persons for allegedly operating an illegal international telephone exchange in central Delhi’s Hauz Qazi. DCP (Central) Shweta Chauhan said the accused have been identified as Mohammad Irfan alias Rajji, 37, a resident of Seelampur, Irfan Ali, 48, Zulfiqar Ali, 48 and his son Areeb Ali, 22, all residents of Sita Ram Bazar. They allegedly used to convert Internet-based international calls into voice calls, resulting in loss of revenue to the government and causing a threat to security. The police said officials from the Department of Telecom filed a complaint that they had received input regarding an illegal telecom set-up being run by Zulifiqar at Choori Walan. The illegal international telephone exchange was receiving calls from Gulf nations, USA, Canada, Nepal, Australia, Pakistan and many other countries and transmitting them illegally to Indian numbers, the police said. According to the police, around 1,47,000 calls from the set-up were found landing on Indian phone and mobile numbers every day, including around 50,000 from Pakistan. The set-up caused an estimated financial loss of Rs. 103 crore to the Indian government, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-arrested-for-running-illegal-international-telephone-exchange/article36787129.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CP smog tower purifying 80% air: Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday visited the recently installed smog tower at Connaught Place and said that preliminary reports show it is cleaning up to 80% of the air. He said that a 16-member committee has been constituted to closely monitor the smog tower and give three reports to the government at an interval of three months each. Based on the reports, the government will decide whether to install smog towers at other places. The preliminary report, he said, showed that at around 8 a.m., the PM2.5 level was 151, which fell to 38 after being purified. Also, the level of PM10 dropped from 166 to 41 after purification, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cp-smog-tower-purifying-80-air-rai/article36787132.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||53 foreigners held for attacking police||Delhi Police has arrested 53 foreign nationals after they allegedly created ruckus outside Mohan Garden police station and attacked officers on the night of September 26. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said 53 African nationals were arrested on September 27. According to the police, an African national died under mysterious circumstances at a hospital in the area after which a crowd gathered outside the hospital and the police station and allegedly attacked policemen with sticks and stones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/53-foreigners-held-for-attacking-police/article36787127.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Girl working as house help found dead||A 19-year-old house help was found dead at her employer’s residence in south-east Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Friday morning. The victim’s family said it suspects “foul play”. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Esha Pandey said they received a call on Friday morning about a girl who had been electrocuted in a house in Lajpat Nagar. When the police reached the spot, they found that the girl, who used to work in the house as a help, had died and had burn injuries on her body. “It was revealed that she worked at the house with her mother. On Friday, the girl had reached the house at 7 a.m.,” the DCP said, adding that forensic experts were called for house inspection. The body has been preserved for post-mortem and legal action will be taken after the report comes out, the DCP said. The deceased’s mother said that they used to go together but on Friday, she decided to go later and sent her daughter early. “Inside the house, I saw a bottle of kerosene and a matchbox lying outside the washroom. I suspect something wrong has happened with her,” she said. According to the family, they had started working at the house two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/girl-working-as-house-help-found-dead/article36787128.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Take call on representation to withhold movie release’||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre to decide a representation to withhold the release of a movie, The Conversion , which purportedly is based on the issue of interfaith marriage. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction while dealing with a petition filed by All India Practicing Lawyers’ Council. “We direct the respondent authority to decide the representation of the petitioner in accordance with law, rules, government policy applicable to the case as expeditiously as possible and keeping in view the allegation that the movie is going to be released on October 8 on YouTube and other platforms,” the court said. On the petitioner’s complaint against “provocative content”, the court said: “Provocation depends on mental status of a person... We can’t issue notice on your provocation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/take-call-on-representation-to-withhold-movie-release/article36787126.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Thief escapes from custody||A 22-year-old man, who was arrested in a theft case, escaped from police custody in east Delhi’s Preet Vihar on Thursday. A case has been registered in the matter. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said the accused, identified as Hari Om alias Poly, a resident of Chitra Vihar, managed to flee when he was brought to Preet Vihar to find and arrest his associate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/thief-escapes-from-custody/article36787130.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||CM unhappy over COVID relief pendency||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed strong displeasure over pendency in implementing the Mukhyamantri Parivar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana, meant to benefit the next of kin of those who lost their lives to COVID-19. At a high-level review meeting over the scheme on Friday, the CM directed the officers to disburse the amount due to the families of COVID-19 victims at the earliest. He also ordered that there will no longer be a need for death certificates and surviving member certificates from the families and officials should instead verify applications from the MHA list or official records and immediately disburse money. To provide a “reality check” to the government officials who are part of the programme, Mr. Kejriwal brought to the meeting a family member of a person who had passed away due to COVID-19. He narrated his ordeal on how he had to run from pillar to post to get his application approved. In the review meeting, the government stated, officials said that 25,709 applications had been received for the one-time ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 under the scheme. Out of this, 24,475 had tallied with the list of the MHA; 1,130 teams with 2,019 employees had been deployed to visit the homes of the applicants. Verification of about 19,000 applicants had been completed, of which 1,250 had opted out of the scheme. At the same time, the CM was told that the Health Department had approved 9,043 of 24,475 applicants under the scheme and 7,163 beneficiaries had been provided relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-unhappy-over-covid-relief-pendency/article36787133.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. signs MoU with IIT-D on road safety||The Transport Department on Friday hosted the Delhi Road Safety 2021 Summit, bringing together road safety stakeholders, including Road Safety Lead Agency, Delhi Traffic Police, IIT-Delhi and international experts, to share a robust action plan for safety on the streets of Delhi. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot flagged off the summit in the presence of Ashish Kundra, Principal Secretary-cum-Transport Commissioner at The Taj Mahal Hotel. At the event, the Transport Department signed a Memorandum of Understanding with IIT-Delhi’s Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer to work with the department on road safety projects and policies in Delhi. The Minister also launched a six-month social media campaign to raise awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-signs-mou-with-iit-d-on-road-safety/article36787136.ece
02 October 2021||Taipei,||China sends 25 jets into Taiwan air zone||Taiwan said 25 Chinese military planes crossed into its defence zone on Friday, the same day that Beijing marked the founding of the People’s Republic of China and its biggest incursion there in months. The show of force on China’s National Day near the self-ruled democratic island, which Beijing claims as part of its territory, came in the same week it accused Britain of sending a warship to the Taiwan Strait with “evil intentions”. Taiwan’s Defence Ministry said it scrambled its aircraft to broadcast warnings on Friday after 22 Chinese fighters, two nuclear-capable bombers and one anti-submarine aircraft entered the island’s southwest Air Defence Identification Zone (ADIZ). China often sends military aircraft into Taiwan’s air defence zone to display displeasure and last week it flew 24 planes into the zone after Taiwan applied to join a major trans-Pacific trade pact. China’s authoritarian leaders have vowed to one day seize Taiwan, by force if necessary. It has ramped up pressure on Taipei since the 2016 election of President Tsai Ing-wen, who views the island as “already independent”. Continuous incursions Last year, Chinese military jets made a record 380 incursions into Taiwan’s defence zone, and the number of incursions for the first nine months of this year has already exceeded 500. The incursion on Friday was the biggest since 28 jets breached Taiwan’s ADIZ on June 15. It came after Britain sent a warship through the Taiwan Strait on Monday for the first time since 2008, a move that challenged Beijing’s claim to the sensitive waterway and marked a rare voyage by a non-U.S. military vessel. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s Eastern Theatre Command lashed out at the voyage, accusing Britain of acting out of “evil intentions to sabotage peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait”. U.S. warships regularly conduct “freedom of navigation” exercises in the waterway separating Taiwan and mainland China, triggering angry responses from Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-sends-25-jets-into-taiwan-air-zone/article36786864.ece
02 October 2021||Washington,||Divided, House Democrats delay vote on $1 tn infra Bill||Despite frenetically working late into Thursday night, Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives failed to vote on a $1 trillion infrastructure Bill as moderate and progressive factions could not agree on a second ‘once in a generation’ social spending and climate action Bill, for which U.S. President had requested $3.5 trillion. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said the infrastructure vote will take place on Friday. “There will be a vote today,” Ms. Pelosi said just past midnight (i.e., early Friday), as per the New York Times . Failure to pass the social spending package is likely to damage Democrats’ prospects in the 2022 midterms and also in the general election ins 2024. Both the Bills define Mr. Biden’s domestic agenda, with the White House having proposed the American Jobs Plan (infrastructure) and the American Families Plan (social spending) earlier this year, as a way to ‘Build Back Better’. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki released a statement at around 11 p.m. on Thursday night, saying a “great deal of progress” had been made this week and that an agreement was closer than ever, “but we are not there yet.” Mr. Biden and his team had been meeting with lawmakers and making a series of calls in the run-up to Thursday. “Nobody should be surprised that we are where we are, because we’ve been telling you that for three and a half months,” said Democrat Pramila Jayapal, head of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, as per a report in the New York Times . The infrastructure Bill — which seeks to revitalise America’s roads, bridges, airports, railroads, broadband and so forth — has bipartisan support, with the Senate already passing, having passed it in August. Progressives, however, are concerned that they will lose leverage if the deal on traditional infrastructure deal passes without the $3.5 trillion ‘human infrastructure’ Bill, which will allocate spending on healthcare, education, childcare and climate action. Democrats hold a majority of eight in the House but the Senate is tied 50-50 with Vice-President Kamala Harris holding a tie-breaking vote. For the social spending Bill to get to the President’s desk for his signature, the Senate too will need to pass it. For this, Democrats plan to use the ‘budget reconciliation’ — a process that needs a simple majority (as opposed to a super majority). Critical to the plan are two centrist Senate Democrats — Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona. Mr. Manchin, on Thursday, stuck to his guns — a top line figure of $1.5 trillion for the social spending Bill — and said that people ought to elect more progressives if they wanted a higher number. “I don’t fault any of them who believe that they’re much more progressive and much more liberal, God bless them. And all they need to do is, we have to elect more liberals,” he told reporters at a press gaggle. Ms. Sinema was at the White House multiple times this week and Mr Biden had cancelled a visit to Chicago on Wednesday so he could stay in Washington and work with lawmakers on Capitol Hill. Democrats were hoping to get the two Senators to agree to a figure of $2.1 trillion, Politico reported. “This is not a baseball game. This is the most significant piece of legislation in 70 years,” former Democratic Primary candidate and independent Senator from Vermont, Bernie Sanders, said. Mr. Sanders has called on his fellow progressives in the House to not vote for the infrastructure Bill unless agreement is reached on passing the $3.5 trillion Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/divided-house-democrats-delay-vote-on-1-tn-infra-bill/article36786867.ece
02 October 2021||Beijing,||As Beijing faces power crisis, firms told to secure supplies||China’s top state-owned energy companies have been ordered to ensure there are adequate fuel supplies for the approaching winter at all costs, a report said on Friday, as the country battles a power crisis that threatens to hit growth in the world’s number two economy. The country has been hit by widespread power cuts that have closed or partially closed factories, hitting production and global supply chains. The crisis has been caused by a confluence of factors, including rising overseas demand as economies reopen, record coal prices, state electricity price controls and tough emissions targets. More than a dozen provinces and regions have been forced to impose curbs on energy usage. Bloomberg News, citing people familiar with the matter who did not want to be named, reported that Vice Premier Han Zheng had told energy companies to make sure there is enough fuel to keep the country running and that Beijing would not tolerate blackouts. Mr. Han, who supervises the nation’s energy sector and industrial production, was speaking at an emergency meeting this week with officials from Beijing’s state-owned assets regulator and economic planning agency, the people said. “It is probably a strong signal about how concerned China is regarding keeping industry going, and more importantly, the winter that is just around the corner,” said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst at OANDA. Coal-reliant economy Nearly 60% of the Chinese economy is powered by coal, but supply in the world’s largest coal importer has been disrupted by the pandemic and squeezed by falling imports amid a trade tiff with Australia. Data released on Thursday showed China’s factory activity contracted last month for the first time since February 2020, when the country was under lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-beijing-faces-power-crisis-firms-told-to-secure-supplies/article36786862.ece
02 October 2021||Beijing,||Amid abuse accusations, Xinjiang gets new leader||China has appointed a new Governor for Xinjiang, where the ruling Communist Party is accused of carrying out mass detentions and other abuses against members of the Uighur and other Muslim minority groups. A former Vice-Governor, Erkin Tuniyaz, 59, an ethnic Uighur, gained some notoriety for delivering a vociferous defence of Chinese policies in the northwestern region, particularly the use of facilities critics call detention centres but which China says are intended for vocational training and deradicalisation and turning the region’s residents away from terrorism and extremism. In his February video address to the United Nations, Mr. Tuniyaz said: “All trainees of these facilities had graduated” by October 2019 and now had “stable jobs and are living a normal life.” Observers say the camp system has been expanded with more permanent facilities, while ex-detainees say they were subjected to brutal conditions and political indoctrination intended to separate them from their traditional culture and religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-abuse-accusations-xinjiang-gets-new-leader/article36786869.ece
02 October 2021||Tehran,||Iran begins war games near Azerbaijan border||The Iranian Army’s ground forces began holding manoeuvres near the country’s border with Azerbaijan on Friday, state media reported, despite criticism from its neighbour. The exercises took place in northwestern Iran, said state television, which showed tanks, howitzers and helicopters firing at targets on the ground. “We respect good neighbourly relations but we do not tolerate the presence of Zionist regime (Israeli) elements and Islamic State terrorists in the region,” ground forces commander Brigadier General Kioumars Heydari told state TV. Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev had criticised the Iranian war games. “Every country can carry out any military drill on its own territory. It’s their sovereign right. But why now, and why on our border?” he told said. His comments were rebuffed by Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh. “The drills carried out by our country in the northwest border areas... are a question of sovereignty,” Mr. Khatibzadeh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-begins-war-games-near-azerbaijan-border/article36786870.ece
02 October 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka lifts lockdown, retains curfew at night||Sri Lanka on Friday lifted a near six-week lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 but maintained a night curfew and a ban on public gatherings and parties. Daily deaths had jumped to over 250 with 4,000 infections after Sri Lankans celebrated the traditional Sinhala and Tamil New Year in mid-April, but case numbers have since eased. The Health Ministry has urged companies to encourage staff to work from home but there was no decision yet on reopening schools. “It is imperative to maintain the progress made to curb COVID-19 infections and the dreaded daily death toll,” Health Minister Keheliya Rambukwella said. Official figures show nearly 13,000 deaths, with more than half a million infections, but experts say the actual numbers could be at least twice as much. The easing of restrictions came as the government aggressively pushes a vaccination drive, fully inoculating 56% of the population of 21 million. Numbers attending weddings and funerals will be restricted to a maximum of 10 till October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-lifts-lockdown-retains-curfew-at-night/article36786871.ece
02 October 2021||Washington,||Covid-19 pill hailed for ‘reducing deaths by 50%’||In a potential leap forward in the global fight against the pandemic, drugmaker Merck said on Friday that its experimental pill for people sick with COVID-19 reduced hospitalisations and deaths by half. That could add a whole new weapon to an arsenal that already includes the COVID-19 vaccine. The company said it will soon ask health officials in the U.S. and around the world to authorise the pill’s use. A decision from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could come within weeks after that, and the drug, if it gets the nod, could be distributed quickly soon afterward. If cleared, it would be the first pill shown to treat COVID-19. All other therapies now authorised in the U.S. require an IV or injection. A pill taken at home, by contrast, would ease pressure on hospitals. Merck and its partner Ridgeback Biotherapeutics said early results showed patients who received the drug, molnupiravir, within five days of COVID-19 symptoms had about half the rate of hospitalisation and death as those who received a dummy pill. The study tracked 775 adults with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 who were considered to be at higher risk for severe disease because of health problems such as obesity, diabetes or heart disease. Merck studied its drug only in people who were not vaccinated. But FDA regulators may consider authorising it for broader use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-pill-hailed-for-reducing-deaths-by-50/article36786962.ece
02 October 2021||Geneva,||Pak. wants EU to revise Afghan monitoring plan||Pakistan wants the European Union to revise its plan to step up human rights monitoring under the new Taliban leadership in Afghanistan, in part by taking into account socio-economic concerns in a country hoping to emerge from decades of war and instability. Islamabad says “further improvements” to a resolution at the UN’s top human rights body are needed, including concrete pledges of aid for the war-wracked country without using human rights as the sole criteria. Pakistan is arguably the Taliban’s closest state interlocutor, with historic ties and ostensible influence with the religious militia. The European bloc is leading an effort backed by more than 40 countries at the Human Rights Council to pass a resolution next week that would, among other things, name a special rapporteur on Afghanistan to help the country uphold its international commitments on human rights and offer support to advocacy groups — much of whose work has been disrupted. The Europeans want consensus for the resolution at the Council, which counts Pakistan among its 47 member countries. Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman Asim Iftikhar said the EU draft resolution “needs further improvements”. He also said the EU proposal “seeks to pursue (human rights) concerns in isolation from security, safety, conflict, governance, and economic dimensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-wants-eu-to-revise-afghan-monitoring-plan/article36786865.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A people who became Indian overnight||Holding a pair of small binoculars in his wrinkled hand, 75-year-old Ahmed Shah has been watching tourists make a beeline to his village for more than a month now. Perched on a boulder on the fringes of Thang, one of India’s northern-most villages, situated about 230 km from Leh, Shah has been offering the binoculars to tourists who are curious to see Pharnu, Pakistan’s village across the Line of Control (LoC), about 1.5 km away. Some offer him money and very few chat with him about his obsessive interest in Pharnu, but he has a toothless smile for all. The septuagenarian has spent a considerable part of his life in Thang watching over the fields of Pharnu using binoculars, for he was separated from his family almost 50 years ago when the LoC was redrawn after the 1971 India-Pakistan war. His brother, Ghulam Mohammed, and sister, Ruzi Bi, are in Pharnu, where his ancestral home and fields are located. “I was a 25-year-old then and did not expect the war to separate me from my family. I have been watching them work in the fields using these binoculars,” he says. In recent years, he has also been able to speak to them on Internet calls. From Pakistan to India Between the midnight of December 14 and December 16, 1971, the Indian Army captured four villages across several hundred square kilometers in the Shyok (which means ‘river of death’) Valley that were part of the Gilgit-Baltistan region in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Overnight, a population of about 1,200 in the villages of Turtuk, Thang, Thyaksi and Chalunka were cut off from Baltistan. A region that was part of the Skardu district in Baltistan became a part of Leh district in Ladakh. Thang and Pharnu were twin villages before 1971, with villagers holding property and homes in both. Shah’s parents and siblings were in Pharnu and Shah had stayed back in Thang on the night of December 15. “I slept as a Pakistani and woke up as an Indian in the morning. I could not do anything,” he says. He was resigned to his fate. “I do not feel like going there, but it will be good if both countries talk and allow families to meet at least.” Deep emotional scars remain among the elderly as almost all the Balti families in these villages have stories of painful separations to narrate after they were cut off from Gilgit-Baltistan abruptly. Surrounded by the lofty and arid Himalayan mountains, Turtuk, the biggest of the four villages, on the banks of Shyok, offers a breathtaking view of apricot and walnut orchards. During winter, temperatures dip to -20°C and the area remains cut off. Before Independence, these villages, nestled between the Karakoram and Himalayan ranges, maintained close ties with Skardu due to a common language and culture. Their connections with Leh were limited to apricot and walnut trade. The road link to Leh over the Khardung-La (pass) ended at Diskit, about 100 km away. For those travelling by foot, geographically, Turtuk is almost equidistant from Kargil, Leh and Skardu, all trading towns in the famed Silk Route. “We were self-sufficient villages. Apricot oil was used in cooking and milk products came from yak or cow. Salt was extracted from the mountain. Wheat and vegetables were grown in villages. Interaction with the civil government was negligible. It was after 1947 that the Baltis in the village came into contact with the Pakistan Army. Many worked as contractors or porters,” says Haji Mohammed Issu, 84, a farmer. Issu worked as a labourer in Gilgit and later as a porter in the Pakistan Army. After 1971, he worked with the Indian Army before age caught up with him. Issu was playing volleyball with his friends when the initial news of a fierce gun battle between the armies in the nearby Chalunka village reached Turtuk. Fear gripped the villagers that chilly winter night. Only a few men stayed back at a house while women and children took shelter at a nullah in the upper reaches, braving the cold. It was only after personnel from Ladakhi Scouts and Nubra Guards offered rations that things calmed down. “The next morning, Baltis, as per the customary faqtab , offered apricots to welcome the Army,” Issu recalls. At that time, Issu’s uncle Abdul Raheem was in Turtuk, while his children Abdil Aziz and Basit Ali were in Skardu working as labourers. “I looked after my uncle till his death about 25 years ago. He died without seeing his children and was distraught all the time,” Issu says. Abdul Raheem left a power of attorney for Issu to look after the house and land till the time his children returned from Gilgit. “They have bought homes there (Gilgit) now. They call us once in a while. There are many such cases where villagers have looked after elders who were separated from their children,” Issu says. Fifty years after the war, Abdul Raheem’s mud and stone house is in a shambles as Issu finds it difficult to maintain it. Many homes whose owners now live across the border have met with the same fate. Until recently, before social media platforms helped reconnect families, communication was next to impossible. Postal letters would reach Turtuk after several months. The first mobile tower in the area was set up in 2012. For some time before social media arrived, people communicated through video messages and family celebrations were shared on flash drives that came through posts. A demand that remains unmet For over three decades now, the Baltis have been seeking road connectivity between Turtuk and Pharnu that could reunite families, or at least a meeting point where families can get together. This demand has not been met. “Several requests have been made for a road or meeting point. Though the Indian Army is not averse to the idea, the Pakistan Army has been turning down the request, we are told. The least they could do is to get older people to meet their kin. Many have died without fulfilling this dream,” says Ghulam Hussain Baig, a member of the Turtuk Farol Gram Panchayat. Baig’s maternal uncle, Mohammed Ibrahim, who was at Skardu during the war, now lives in Rawalpindi. “Of the eight siblings of my mother, only he stays there. He is lonely. The family has not met him in 50 years,” he says. Ghulam’s grandfather, the late Mohammed Ali Khan, was among the village elders who negotiated the transition of the Balti villages with the Indian Army. Elderly Baltis credit the legendary Major Chewang Rinchen for the smooth integration of these villages. In an early morning interaction on December 16 at a house in Turtuk, in which Khan and other elderly Baltis were present, Major Rinchen assuaged the fears of the Baltis. “Major Rinchen hailed from the adjacent Nubra Valley, and my grandfather and his father were friends. His presence as a local and assurances of protection to women and children helped ease anxiety, and people returned from hiding,” Ghulam says. When the border was redrawn, nobody abandoned Turtuk, Thang and Thaykshi, says Ghulam. However, all the families, barring two, in Chalunka hurriedly moved to Pakistan. Most in Chalunka moved due to fear as war clouds began to gather and a fierce gun fight had begun. An emotional reunion In Thang, about seven km from Turtuk, ‘Goba’ (village head) Mohammed Ali has been separated from his parents since he was five. He and his brother were brought up by his grandfather as his parents were in Pharnu. While his mother had moved towards the forests in Pharnu around the time the Indian Army was moving in, his father went towards Pakistan to look for his mother after the Army takeover had been completed. He also did not return. “I really missed my parents and seven siblings. I can imagine how my grandfather would have felt,” says Goba Ali, now a popular figure among the Indian Baltis. His grandfather died in 1985. Goba Ali says the Indian Army has taken care of them. After several years of multiple failed attempts to secure an Indian passport and later a Pakistan visa, Goba Ali finally made it to Gilgit-Baltistan in 2014. It was ironic that he had to travel nearly 3,000 km, crossing the border at Wagah in Punjab, to meet his parents who lived only a couple of km away from Thang. “I was harassed by Pakistani authorities because I was working for the Indian Army. Even after the questioning, I remained in Islamabad for nearly two months. Before meeting my parents, I had mixed feelings. When I actually met them, I was crying. I cannot put in words what emotions went through my mind,” he says. The video of an intense emotional reunion with his parents is available on YouTube. According to Ghulam, who also works as an Army porter, four more persons from the Balti villages have met their families in Pakistan. In 2015, four elderly persons, including a woman, came from Gilgit-Baltistan looking for their family members in Turtuk. Today, many in the younger generation, who were born after the war, like Ghulam, are not keen to visit their relatives in Pakistan though they connect with them on phone. “It is very expensive and a cumbersome process to travel. So, most of the elderly have given up and the younger generation is disconnected from their extended families,” he says. Unlike the neighbouring Kashmir Valley, armed insurgency has not been reported here. However, during the Kargil War, about 25 men from Turtuk, Thyakshi and Thang, who took their sheep for grazing in higher altitudes, were arrested for having received money and weapons. They were released from jail after two years. “The villagers had accepted the money because they were poor. They abandoned the weapons. We have not had such instances since then,” Ghulam says. The change of nationality for many, including Issu, did not matter for employment. If they had worked for the Pakistan Army before 1971, the Indian Army employed them later to be porters given their astute knowledge of the terrain. “Change of nationality did not affect the population here as far as livelihood issues were concerned. But family ties were irreversibly hit,” Ghulam says. In the village of Turtuk also lives the titular head of the Baltis, Mohammed Khan Kacho, a descendent of the Yabgo dynasty. He lives in a 16th century stone palace ravaged by Pakistani Army personnel in the 1950s. “There are no people in Turtuk without relatives in Pakistan. It has been a painful separation. In Islam, without talak , a remarriage is not possible. Several couples were separated and no communication from either side was possible. Some became mental wrecks,” he says. Kacho, who traces his ancestry to Western Turkistan (in Central Asia), says most of the region in his erstwhile kingdom is now in Gilgit-Baltistan. He too, like a majority of the Baltis, has not seen his clan, including his sisters and cousins, who live in Pakistan. His properties are being taken care of by his cousins. “I had raised the issue of facilitating family reunions at a designated place on the border. The Indian Army had agreed but it looks like the Pakistan military did not,” he says. Kacho says he has not attempted to visit Pakistan since it is too cumbersome. He has not considered entering politics to further the Balti cause, but says that it is the responsibility of elected representatives to take care of development and address these issues. The Baltis say that a lot of the development in the villages took place after the area came under the Indian fold. “Hospital, school, ration and water has been taken care of,” Kacho says. Issu points out electricity supply and roads as measures of development. “There was nothing much here till 1971 and the civil administration had turned its back on the region,” Issu says. For the elderly Baltis, development apart, the larger issue is of interactions with relatives across the border. “If trade and interactions can take place at Wagah border in Punjab or between Srinagar and Muzaffarabad, why is it being denied to us,” asks an elderly person at Turtuk. A thriving culture While families distressed by the separation carry emotional scars, the last five decades have seen the Balti population (now about 3,000) holding on to its culture and tradition. A population that practised Tibetan Buddhism till the 14th century converted to Sufi Islam due to the influence of Hazrat Shah Hamadan from Iran during his second visit to Baltistan in 1383 CE. Navros, the Zoroastrian new year, and the Apricot Blossom festival are celebrated with much pomp along with hard polo games on Zanskari horses in an ancient polo ground at Turtuk. Continuing a centuries-old tradition, the Baltis store butter for decades in ‘natural cold storage’ (a stone structure below the ground). Despite the introduction of Hindi and English in schools, Balti continues to be the language of the people. But several educated Baltis have moved out looking for greener pastures. The Army Goodwill School at Thyakshi remains popular. Hydro-generated power has arrived, and DG sets are used for power supply in winter. After nearly four decades of restricting entry to outsiders, the government now allows tourists into the villages. Turtuk and Thyakshi were opened in 2010, but till August 2021, tourists could see the Pakistan posts through binoculars only from outside Thang. Since mid-August this year, tourists are allowed inside Thang after intense identity checks. They now have a closer look at ‘Zero Point’, the LoC. From having just two guesthouses before 2010 to nearly 40 homestays, hotels and campsites now, Turtuk has been welcoming visitors curious to see the ramparts of bunkers built by the Pakistan Army or the school built by Pakistan which is now being run by the Indian administration. More than 50 families have their men in the Indian Army and most are connected to the army in one way or the other. Connectivity has improved. Earlier there was just one State transport bus a week; now there are four shared taxis daily to Leh. But for this small ethnic population, the pain of separation from their families has lingered for five decades. The wait for the warm hugs and banter with their family members remains a mirage, overshadowed by war and diplomatic obstacles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-people-who-became-indian-overnight/article36786625.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading Gandhi as a lesson of political maturity||Nearly 74 years after his death, Gandhi remains the most widely known political leader of modern India. Gandhi’s stature as a major historical figure was confirmed by his successful non-violent movement against British rule in India. Yet, what makes Gandhi so relevant and meaningful for our world is that his political legacy and his philosophical significance continue to inspire millions of people around the globe — to fight against inequality, injustice and historical wrongs. An imperative Accordingly, what distinguishes Gandhi from all politicians in today’s world is not only his simplicity and honesty — which have become rare characteristics for many men and women who pretend to represent our wills and wishes around the globe — but also his belief in the moral growth of humanity. In a world such as ours which suffers from an immaturity of politics and politicians, either in tyrannical situations such as Afghanistan, Myanmar, Syria, etc. or in democracies such as the United States, Spain, Poland, India, etc. reading Gandhi as a lesson of political maturity is an ethical imperative. As such, and not strangely, Gandhi believed in no divorce between politics and ethics. For Gandhi, politics was essentially an ethical mode of conduct. He never pretended to be a teacher of truth. However, others took him to be a guru, and there is no doubt that his attempts to encourage people to experiment with the truth were both philosophical and pedagogical. Culture of patience Therefore, as a practitioner of empathetic humanism and a pluralist thinker, Gandhi was an exemplar of a lifelong process of listening and learning. He actually played the role of an exemplar in prescribing “patience” as a means to understand and approach the other. The dialogical nature of Gandhi’s culture of patience finds its roots in the idea of epistemic humility as a necessary methodology in approaching and understanding other cultures and religions. As such, the entire Gandhian thought in the realm of religion and politics revolves around this concept of epistemic humility. That is why Gandhi had a profoundly ethical view of religions. In other words, he recognised neither the infallible authority of prophetic texts nor the sanctity of religious traditions. At the same time, he was the foremost critic of the epistemological arrogance of modern rationality and its authoritarian practices in terms of colonial thinking and imperialistic domination. It is on account of his overriding concern for the self-respect of individuals and nations that Gandhi joined the two notions of truth and non-violence to that of the term Swaraj. Gandhi believed that all individuals irrespective of their religion, race and culture had the right to self-governance. Accordingly, what we can call the Gandhian moment of Swaraj was actually for him a constant experimentation with modes of cross-cultural and inter-faith understanding and dialogue. In other words, the capacity to engage constructively with conflicting values was an essential component of Gandhi’s practical wisdom and empathetic pluralism. As a matter of fact, Swaraj as a space of self-realisation was where the ethical and the political joined in the Gandhian political philosophy. For Gandhi, politics, like spirituality, was a space to examine and experience Truth, which he considered not as a given process, but as an effort of re-evaluation and reformulation of reality. A self-transcendence In this sense, Gandhi did not consider freedom as a mere political act, but he defined it primarily as an ethical enterprise. That is why Gandhi argued, “I am but a seeker after Truth. I claim to have found a way to it. I claim to be making a ceaseless effort to find it. But I admit that I have not yet found it. To find Truth completely is to realize oneself and one’s destiny, i.e., to become perfect. I am painfully conscious of my imperfections, and therein lies all the strength I possess, because it is a rare thing for a man to know his own limitations.” We have here a process of individual self-transcendence that Gandhi also applied to the idea of civilisation, since he considered civilisation as an exercise of human maturity. Gandhi firmly believed that the anthropological and ethical origins of such a state of maturity resided in the spiritual capacity of human beings. But he also underlined this move towards maturity as a process of learning to be responsible towards oneself and the others. As a result, everything Gandhi did and wrote during his lifetime was an attempt to bring into the open his own journey of intellectual and political maturity. He, therefore, used the concept of maturity not only in the social context, but also as an expression of character building which he distinguished from literary training. As he asserted, “Literary training by itself adds not an inch to one’s moral height and character-building is independent of literary training.” Therefore, according to Gandhi, character-building was an art of developing a sense of autonomy and having authority over one’s self. In other words, maturity for Gandhi was a state of mind and a mode of being, where one had the capacity to form one’s life in a social sphere. It was on the basis of this act of maturity that Gandhi established his political anthropology and pedagogical premises. He believed that an autonomy formed by a mature judgment prepared a life according to morality. Gandhi, therefore, approached pragmatic politics as a form of character-building and not necessarily a struggle for getting elected or grasping power. Gandhi’s acknowledgment of the moral imperative of maturity and his devotion to democratic transparency continues to distinguish his political psychology from most of the other discourses in Indian and world politics. As such, Gandhi’s suggestion to us in relation to moral excellence and spiritual maturity presents itself at the same time as an invitation to self-respect and self-restraint. A continuing relevance As he argued, “Where there is egotism, we shall find incivility and arrogance. Where it is absent, we shall find a sense of self-respect together with civility... He who holds his self-respect dear acts towards everyone in a spirit of friendship, for he values others’ self-respect as much as he values his own. He sees himself in all and everyone else in himself, puts himself in line with others. The egotist keeps aloof from others and, believing himself superior to the rest of the world, he takes [it] upon himself to judge everyone and in the result enables the world to have the measure of his smallness.” Therefore, it goes without saying that by reading Gandhi closely and correctly, we can get to the conclusion that, despite all his shortcomings, his appeal to mature and conscientious politics and nobility of spirit continues to be a strong ethical response to the political issues and challenges of our time. Maybe, that is why, Gandhi remains our contemporary, while he belongs to our future. Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Non-violence and Peace Studies at the O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reading-gandhi-as-a-lesson-of-political-maturity/article36786618.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to sound the bell with class doors reopening||The sight of children going to school evokes normalcy and hope. Our children’s lives are centred around schools, and the learning, the routine, and fun that come with it.  But for nearly a year-and-a-half since the novel coronavirus pandemic in 2020, schools had to shut their doors, and shift to remote learning. Children could not meet their friends, or eat hot school meals. Some suffered mental distress. Many faced violence. Millions of children missed critical developmental milestones. What started off as a health crisis fast turned into an acute child rights crisis. Learning loss was a big fallout of the pandemic. The gaps in online learning While remote, online learning is the only resort to connect students with teachers. It is a pale substitute for in-person learning. Many children have been excluded from online classes, due to the digital divide. There is also grave concern over the learning outcome for children who can connect. Eight out of 10 parents of students aged between five to 13 years are of the opinion that their children were learning less or significantly less remotely compared to when in school. More than nine of every 10 children in Classes 2 to 6 have lost at least one specific ability in language from the previous year. Across India, States have started reopening schools as COVID-19 cases plateau. Large numbers are now vaccinated, and it is steadily moving up. The government prioritisation of teachers for vaccination is very reassuring. Back at school However, the decision to reopen schools is fraught with emotions, fears, and heated debates. The questions being raised by parents need to be addressed. Schools must put in place and implement all safety protocols. An online survey conducted by UNICEF reached nearly 11,000 respondents (parents, teachers, and students). By and large, all 6,157 responding parents felt that being vaccinated is the most important safety measure for children to return to school. While parents (55%) said they were not keen on sending their child to school yet, parents (60%) did not feel confident that their child’s school and staff are ready for safe reopening. Out of 4,451 teachers who responded to the survey; 65% said they have been provided support and guidance on how to work safely in schools as they reopen. While 93% said school staff should be fully vaccinated before classes resumed. Out of 366 student respondents, 71% were excited to go back to school. Schools can focus on getting back younger children first, as primary and pre-primary-school age children are the least likely to be infected. Children are mostly asymptomatic and are less likely to spread the virus when compared to adults.  We have evidence to show that schools are not the main drivers of community transmission and that children are more likely to get the virus outside of school settings. In fact, keeping schools closed for more than a year did not prevent the raging second wave of the pandemic. With measures firmly in place, schools can be safer environments for children than other places. Teachers have shown remarkable courage and commitment across India. They stepped up to support online and offline learning across high tech, low tech and no tech settings. And used various other platforms for learning and even did door-to-door visits with students. Learning now and solutions The novel coronavirus pandemic has paved the way for a blended teaching-learning approach combining online and offline lessons. Teachers may assess the levels of progress in students in remote learning and plan for lessons based on these levels. Parents, teachers, students and school managements need to work together to find solutions. Positive examples have emerged from different States such as open-air classes under trees. Despite doubts, there is no better alternative to the safe reopening of schools. The longer children are out of schools, the more difficult it would be for them to return and learn. The social and economic costs of children continuing to be out of school have become too high. Here is an example of a student’s reaction: “When schools were closed, it did not feel right, I got bored and missed my friends. Schools have now opened, we are again meeting every day, playing with friends. We show others how to follow COVID appropriate behaviours in and outside of school. We request our teachers and friends to always wear masks. And that is how we keep everyone safe.” Many children are finding rhythm and normalcy in going to schools, like Anshu Kumari, a Class eigh student of Jay Mangal School in Muzaffarpur, Bihar, said. In India, equity must guide how children return to school, and continue to learn and grow.  Yasmin Ali Haque is UNICEF Representative in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-to-sound-the-bell-with-class-doors-reopening/article36786621.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||No clean sweep||Seven years after launching his government’s marquee programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the second phase of Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), with a fresh promise to make India’s cities clean. For all the attention it has received, the goal of scientific waste management and full sanitation that Mahatma Gandhi emphasised even a century ago remains largely aspirational today, and the recent lament of Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal on dirty, dysfunctional cities drives home the point. That urban India, in his view, is unable to match cities in Vietnam that has a comparable per capita income is a telling commentary on a lack of urban management capacities in spite of the Swachh Bharat programme enjoying tremendous support. SBM-U 2.0, with a Rs. 1.41-lakh crore outlay, aims to focus on garbage-free cities and urban grey and black water management in places not covered by AMRUT. In its first phase, the Mission had an outstanding balance of Rs. 3,532 crore, since the total allocation was Rs. 14,622 crore while cumulative releases came to Rs. 11,090 crore. The issue of capability and governance underscores the challenge — of being able to process only about one lakh tonnes of solid waste per day against 1.4 lakh tonnes generated — to transition to a circular economy that treats solid and liquid waste as a resource. Raising community involvement in resource recovery, which the rules governing municipal, plastic and electronic waste provide for, calls for a partnership that gives a tangible incentive to households. The current model of issuing mega contracts to big corporations — as opposed to decentralised community-level operations for instance — has left segregation of waste at source a non-starter. In the absence of a scaling up of operations, which can provide large-scale employment, and creation of matching facilities for material recovery, SBM-U 2.0 cannot keep pace with the tide of waste in a growing economy. On sanitation, the impressive claim of exceeding the targets for household, community and public toilets thus far obscures the reality that without water connections, many of them are unusable, and in public places, left in decrepitude. State and municipal governments, which do the heavy lifting on waste and sanitation issues, should work to increase community ownership of the system. As things stand, it is a long road to Open Defecation Free plus (ODF+) status for urban India, since that requires no recorded case of open defecation and for all public toilets to be maintained and functioning. Equally, the high ambition of achieving 100% tap water supply in about 4,700 urban local bodies and sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities depends crucially on making at least good public rental housing accessible to millions of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-clean-sweep/article36786612.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Crime and the pandemic||The annual report, ‘Crime in India’, released by the National Crime Records Bureau in mid-September this year needs to be carefully parsed before gleaning insights or making State-wise comparisons. The reason is the significant variances in case registration across States and Union Territories, especially serious crimes pertaining to rape and violence against women. States/UTs such as Tamil Nadu with 1808.8, Kerala (1568.4) and Delhi (1309.6) recorded the highest crime rate (crimes per one lakh people) overall. But it is difficult not to see these numbers as a reflection of better reporting and police registration of cases in these States and the capital city, respectively. On the other hand, while there was an 8.3% decline in registered cases of crimes against women in 2020 (of which the bulk of them, 30.2%, were of the category “Cruelty by husband or his relatives”), this number has to be assessed along with the fact that the year saw prolonged lockdowns during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic (between late March and May 2021 in particular). This period coincided with a high number of complaints of domestic violence — the number of complaints received by National Commission for Women registered a 10-year high as of June 2020. The seeming mismatch between the NCW and NCRB data must be studied and can only be explained by a lack of registration of cases in some States where crime reporting remains sluggish either due to a fear of doing so or a lackadaisical approach to such cases by law enforcement. On the other hand, the lockdown also led to an overall fall in crime related to theft, burglary and dacoity. The COVID-19 related disruption also led to a greater registration of cases overall (a 28% increase in 2020 compared to 2019) largely due to a 21-fold increase in cases related to disobedience to the order duly promulgated by a public servant and over four times in cases involving violations of other State local laws. This is not surprising either. India had one of the most stringent lockdowns and law enforcement spared little in enforcing strictures on physical distancing. The question of registration does not apply to some types of cases such as murders — which showed only a marginal increase of 1% compared to 2019. Worryingly, while there was a reduction in the registered number of economic offences (by 12% since 2019), cybercrimes recorded an increase of 11.8% . The increase in cybercrimes is cause for concern as this requires sharper law enforcement as seen even in highly developed societies. While cases related to sedition declined from 93 in 2019 to 73 last year, Manipur and Assam led with 15 and 12 cases each. Sedition has increasingly been used as a weapon to stifle dissent and this trend needs to be reversed urgently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/crime-and-the-pandemic/article36786613.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||September PMI signals uptick in manufacturing expansion||Manufacturing activity expanded at a slightly improved pace in September, IHS Markit’s survey-based Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) signalled, even as raw material shortages and high fuel and transport costs intensified price pressures and pushed input cost inflation to a five-month high. The index rose last month to 53.7, from August’s 52.3, marking the third straight month of expansion, with consumer goods showing the highest growth in output and international sales picking up momentum. Business confidence also improved on expectations of increased production in the year ahead, despite the pandemic. A PMI reading above 50 marks an expansion. However, employment showed little change for the second month in a row. The PMI survey, which had in July reported a resumption in hiring after 15 months of job losses, saw manufacturers pause hiring in August. “Companies continued to purchase extra inputs in September, but jobs were little changed over the month,” Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said in the release. “In some instances, survey participants indicated that government guidelines surrounding shift work prevented hiring,” she noted. ‘Gearing up for demand’ Firms reporting growth cited favourable market conditions and improved sales volumes, aided by the easing of COVID-19 restrictions and strengthening demand. “Manufacturers lifted production to a greater extent in September as they geared up for improvements in demand and the replenishment of stocks,” Ms. De Lima observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/september-pmi-signals-uptick-in-manufacturing-expansion/article36786590.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||September auto sales across segments hit by chip shortage||The domestic auto sector may be headed for a lacklustre festive season despite strong demand as vehicle production has been severely hit by the shortage of electronic components. Major players such as Maruti, Hyundai and Mahindra & Mahindra, saw double-digit decline in vehicle dispatches to their dealers in September, ahead of the festive season that accounts for nearly 40% of the industry’s annual sales. Country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki said it sold 63,111 passenger vehicles (PVs) in the domestic market last month, lower by 57% year-on-year. Hyundai Motor India wholesales was down 34% to 33,087 units during the month due to semiconductor supply constraints. In the two-wheeler segment, TVS Motors sold 2,44,084 units in the domestic market last month, as against 2,41,762 units in September 2020. “With pandemic restrictions easing and the festive season soon approaching, we expect the retails to improve significantly in the coming months,” the company said. Royal Enfield saw sales skid by 52% to 27,233 units as the ongoing global shortage of semiconductor chips and the recent lockdown in certain source markets had impacted volumes for September. “The situation improved towards the end of September, and availability of parts is expected to start scaling up from Q3 FY22,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/september-auto-sales-across-segments-hit-by-chip-shortage/article36786603.ece
02 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC logs 29% rise in September sales||Public sector mining major NMDC produced 2.69 million tonnes (MT) of iron ore and posted a sales of 2.73 MT in September, an increase of 47% and 29% respectively from the performance a year earlier. Production and sales for the fiscal up to September stood at 17.71 MT and 18.50 MT respectively. This translated into an increase of 45% and 43% respectively over the same period last year. Stating that it was the best ever Q2 and half-yearly performance, CMD Sumit Deb said in a release on Friday that a focus to enhance mine capacity and strengthen logistical support had significantly improved operational efficiency. With the performance, the “team has proven that NMDC is on a strong, stable footing to beat the challenges and absorb cyclical volatility.” Addressing the AGM on Thursday, Mr. Deb said NMDC expects to produce 47 MT in current fiscal. The production was 34.15 MT last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-logs-29-rise-in-september-sales/article36786588.ece
02 October 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Ethanol production absorbed 2 MT of sugar’||Almost two million tonnes (MT) of sugar were diverted for ethanol production during the last sugar season (October 2020 to September 2021), Sudhanshu Pandey, Food Secretary, said at a webinar on sugar output on Friday. During the current season, which started on Friday, about 3.5 MT of sugar are expected to be used for ethanol production in the country. “[The] ethanol journey has just begun. And, we look forward to new technological interventions in future, and align our policies and programmes in a manner that we make the best of these value chains and enrich all stakeholders... and also help economies not only in India but globally to prosper,” he said. Abinash Verma, Director General of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said the opening stock for the current sugar season is 8.5 MT and production is estimated to be 31 MT. Exports would account for close to six million tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ethanol-production-absorbed-2-mt-of-sugar/article36786592.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘GoM to decide soon on winning bidder for AI’||The Group of Ministers (GoM) led by Home Minister Amit Shah will meet soon to take a decision on the winning bidder for Air India, a top government official said on Friday. “Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) will meet soon to decide,” the official told The Hindu when asked about the outcome of the financial bids submitted by Tata Sons and SpiceJet’s Ajay Singh last month. AISAM is the name given to the GoM headed by Amit Shah. It includes Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Senior bureaucrats have likely already met to do the groundwork before a final approval by the GoM and may have identified the winner of the stake sale. Earlier in the day, Secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management denied media reports that the Centre had approved Tata as the winning bidder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gom-to-decide-soon-on-winning-bidder-for-ai/article36786597.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports rise 21%, exceed pre-pandemic Sept. level||India’s merchandise exports grew 21.3% year-on-year to $33.44 billion in September, and were 28.5% higher than the pre-COVID level of September 2019. Merchandise imports, however, grew faster to $56.38 billion, 84.8% higher than September 2020 and almost 50% over the pre-pandemic level, as per preliminary estimates. Total merchandise exports in the first half of the year amounted to $197.11 billion, close to 57% higher than 2020 and 23.8% more than in 2019. This means exports will have to gain further momentum over the rest of the year to meet the government’s $400 billion target for 2021-22. The trade deficit hit a record of almost $23 billion in September, widening the overall trade deficit in the current fiscal year to $78.81 billion, more than a tripling from a year earlier, but still 11.4% below the 2019 level. “With the surge in imports, merchandise trade deficit has ballooned to an all-time high in September; we now expect the current account to display a double-digit deficit in the second quarter,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-rise-21-exceed-pre-pandemic-sept-level/article36786600.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Performance of IBC not skewed: CEA||Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian took on critics of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) for labelling its performance as 'skewed' with low recovery rates, arguing they were ‘cherry-picking’ IBC data and a lot of the loans going through the IBC process were a result of ‘crony lending’ prior to 2014. Speaking at the fifth annual day of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, the CEA said the average recovery rate is 45% under the IBC and this compared favourably with the U.S., where the rate is 59%. He said one ought not to ignore outliers and then conclude that recoveries amounted to only 25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/performance-of-ibc-not-skewed-cea/article36786598.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCLT, NCLAT draw most flak at IBC: Debroy||Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council Bibek Debroy said complaints about the efficacy of the IBC processes largely pertain to the functioning of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Arguing that the IBC and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) are unique compared with similar mechanisms in other countries, he said, “Here is a regulator that doesn’t enforce its rules. We have NCLT and NCLAT – most of the time, (when) people complain about the process, it is about them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-nclat-draw-most-flak-at-ibc-debroy/article36786601.ece
02 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti to move court over DoT penalty||Bharti Airtel said on Friday it would pursue legal options after the Department of Telecom (DoT) slapped penalties of Rs. 1,050 crore and Rs. 2,000 crore, respectively, on the firm and Vodafone Idea based on the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s recommendation five years ago, according to sources. The DoT has given three weeks’ time to the telecom operators to pay the penalty, a source said while sharing the content of the demand notice served to the companies on Thursday. In 2016, TRAI had recommended penalising the firms for allegedly denying inter-connectivity to Jio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-to-move-court-over-dot-penalty/article36786604.ece
02 October 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank, NBFCs enter lending pact||Indian Bank has entered into an MoU with Indiabulls Housing Finance Ltd., Indiabulls Commercial Credit Ltd., and IIFL Home Finance Ltd., to enable priority sector lending. The arrangement involves joint contribution of credit at the facility level by the lenders, Indian Bank said in a statement. The bank and the NBFCs had also mutually agreed on sharing risks and rewards to ensure appropriate alignment of business objectives. Indian Bank said it expects to generate substantial business under the priority sector through co-lending during Q3 of the current fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-nbfcs-enter-lending-pact/article36786605.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Zee board rejects Invesco’s request for convening EGM||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. on Friday said its board had rejected the request of shareholders Invesco and OFI Global China Fund, to convene an EGM to discuss various issues, including removal of managing director Punit Goenka, terming the request ‘invalid and illegal’.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zee-board-rejects-invescos-request-for-convening-egm/article36786593.ece
02 October 2021||MUMBAI,||LIC appoints BC Patnaik as MD||Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has announced the elevation of B.C. Patnaik to the rank of MD with effect from October 1, 2021. Mr. Patnaik had joined LIC as a direct recruit officer in 1986. Prior to taking charge as MD, he was Secretary General, Council for Insurance Ombudsmen (CIO), Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-appoints-bc-patnaik-as-md/article36786595.ece
02 October 2021||JAMSHEDPUR,||National meet returns after a break||Top archers of the country, barring a few, are expected to provide exciting action at the iconic Tata Archery Academy here from Saturday as the 40th National archery championships returns after a pandemic-induced break. The National championships was last held at Cuttack in 2019. Enthusiasm The Archery Association of India (AAI) has noticed a lot of enthusiasm on the return of the elite domestic event. The federation has received maximum number of entries — over 950 from 40 units — for this edition. Several top archers, who competed in the recently-concluded World archery championships and World Cup Final in Yankton, USA, will take part in the event. Olympians Atanu Das, Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav will be seen in action in the recurve events. Triple Worlds silver medallist V. Jyothi Surekha and Abhishek Verma will be among the star compound archers who will be taking part. The top 16 archers in recurve men and women and compound men and women categories will be picked from this championship for the selection trials to be held on October 10 and 11 here for the Asian archery championship in Dhaka next month. A few archers, including Sangampreet Bisla, Ridhi and Aditya Chaudhary, who competed in the World championships and missed out on the selection process of their respective State units for the National championships will also get a chance to take part in the trials, said an AAI source. The championships will also showcase some promising archers who shone at the elite and youth World championships. The National championships will begin with the Indian (bamboo) bow competitions on October 2 and 3, followed by compound events on October 5 and 6 and recurve events on October 8 and 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-meet-returns/article36787068.ece
02 October 2021||CARRARA,||Smriti makes historic Test memorable with maiden century||Rain wiped out a significant part of the second day’s play after India opener Smriti Mandhana (127, 216b, 22x4, 1x6) stole the limelight with a magnificent maiden Test hundred in the historic women’s Day-Night match against Australia here on Friday. India was 276 for five in 101.5 overs when lightning forced the players indoors some time after the dinner break, meaning more than a session’s play was wasted due to inclement weather. The lightning was followed by rain, rendering the outfield wet. Deepti Sharma was batting on 12 and Taniya Bhatia was yet to open her account as the players walked off the field and covers were brought on. India lost two wickets in the second session, including that of skipper Mithali Raj for 30 and debutant Yastika Bhatia for 19. Mithali, who was looking good for a big one, was run out after playing a few lovely shots. Earlier, flamboyant opener Smriti shattered a few records en route to slamming a magnificent Test century as India progressed to 231 for three in the second day’s opening session. The 25-year-old Smriti became the first Indian woman to hit a century in Day-Night Tests and also the first Indian woman to reach three figures in the game’s traditional format on Australian soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smriti-makes-historic-test-memorable-with-maiden-century/article36786961.ece
02 October 2021||PARIS,||Super-sub Kane helps himself to a hat-trick||Harry Kane scored a hat-trick after coming off the bench to seal a 5-1 win for Tottenham Hotspur over Slovenian champion Mura in the Europa Conference League group stage on Thursday. Dele Alli’s penalty and a goal from Giovani Lo Celso put Spurs in control after just eight minutes in north London, but a brilliant volley from Ziga Kous cut the deficit shortly after half-time. Triple change Tottenham boss Nuno Espirito Santo introduced Kane, Son Heung-min and Lucas Moura for the final 30 minutes, a triple change that helped the struggling Premier League club wrap up a much-needed victory. Lucas played through for Kane to stab home on 68 minutes, and the England forward struck again after sweeping in from Son’s cross. Kane, yet to score in the league this season, completed his treble in the closing minutes after a slick pass from Lo Celso. “We made it harder than we needed to,” said Kane. “It was nice to come off the bench and score a few goals.” “Us as players and staff need to stick together and work hard. Our recent form has not been great but we need to try to turn it round next game,” said Kane. This morale-boosting result sent Tottenham to top of its Group with four points.  The result: Tottenham Hotspur 5 (Alli 4-pen, Lo Celso 8, Kane 68, 76, 87) bt Mura 1 (Kous 53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-sub-kane-helps-himself-to-a-hat-trick/article36787144.ece
02 October 2021||LONDON,||Hammers notch up second straight win||West Ham United made it two wins out of two in the Europa League after goals by Declan Rice and Said Benrahma secured a 2-0 home victory over Rapid Vienna while Leicester City suffered a 1-0 defeat at Legia Warsaw on Thursday. Italian league leader Napoli crashed to a shock 3-2 home loss to Spartak Moscow and Celtic was humbled 4-0 at home by Bayer Leverkusen. Crowd trouble Olympique Marseille’s home game with Galatasaray, which ended in a 0-0 draw, was marred by crowd trouble with play held up for eight minutes in the first half after rival fans hurled fireworks at each other. West Ham twice hit the woodwork before England midfielder Rice turned in Michail Antonio’s cross in the 29th minute and Benrahma sealed the win in stoppage time with a crisp low shot. The result put the Hammers top of Group H on six points, three ahead of Dinamo Zagreb. Legia emerged as the surprise Group C leader on six points after Mahir Emreli’s goal sunk Leicester. Spartak, second on three points, fought back having fallen behind after 11 seconds to beat Napoli. Leicester and Napoli have one point each from their opening two games. Real Betis also celebrated its second successive win as it beat Ferencvaros 3-1 in Budapest to stay level with Leverkusen on six points. Lazio beat Lokomotiv Moscow 2-0 thanks to first-half goals from Toma Basic and Spanish defender Patric.  Important results: Real Sociedad 1 (Merino 53) drew with Monaco 1 (Disasi 16); Legia Warsaw 1 (Emreli 31) bt Leicester City 0; Napoli 2 (Elmas 1, Osimhen 90+4) lost to Spartak Moscow 3 (Promes 55, 90, Ignatov 80).   Royal Antwerp 0 lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Paciencia 90+1-pen); Lazio 2 (Basic 13, Patric 38) bt Lokomotiv Moscow 0.   Celtic 0 lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Hincapie 25, Wirtz 35, Alario 58-pen, Adli 90+4); Ferencvaros 1 (Uzuni 44) lost to Real Betis 3 (Fekir 17, Wingo 76-og, Tello 90+5); West Ham 2 (Rice 29, Benrahma 90+4) bt Rapid Vienna 0.   Conf. League result: Tottenham Hotspur 5 (Alli 4-pen, Lo Celso 8, Kane 68, 76, 87) bt Mura 1 (Kous 53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hammers-notch-up-second-straight-win/article36787070.ece
02 October 2021||LIMA,||Manu takes air pistol gold||Youth Olympics champion Manu Bhaker was crowned the champion in air pistol as she beat compatriot Esha Singh by 1.3 points in the final of the junior World Championship here. Rhythm Sangwan finished fourth.  In women’s skeet, Ganemat Sekhon came up with a commendable fare but was beaten to the gold in the shoot-off, after being tied on 46 in the final with USA’s Alishia Fayth Layne. Rudrankksh Patil and Ramita won silver and bronze medals in the men’s and women’s air rifle events respectively. With one gold, three silver and one bronze, India was second in the medals table behind USA, which had three gold, two silver and a bronze.  The results: Men: Air pistol: 1. Abdul-Aziz Kurdzi (Blr) 236.8 (576), 2. Martin Freije Torneiro (Esp) 235.5 (582), 3. Eduard Baumeister (Ger) 215.4 (574), 4. Naveen 196.6 (584), 6. Sarabjot Singh 157.0 (584), 8. Vijayveer Sidhu 115.6 (581).   Air rifle: 1. William Shaner (USA) 250.7 (630.7), 2. Rudrankksh Patil 250.0 (630.2), 3. Rylan William Kissell (US) 228.2 (623.7), 7. Paarth Makhija 141.4 (629.2), 8. Dhanush Srikanth 121.0 (629.6).   Skeet: 1. Elijah Keith Ellis (USA) 53 (117), 2. Jordan Douglas Sapp (USA) 52 (120), 3. Cristian Ghilli (Ita) 42 (119), 10. Rajveer Gill 112, 17. Abhay Singh Sekhon 108, 18. Ayush Rudraraju 105.   Women: Air pistol: 1. Manu Bhaker 241.3 (574), 2. Esha Singh 240.0 (572), 3. Yasemin Beyza Yilmaz (Tur) 217.9 (572), 4. Rhythm Sangwan 198.7 (577).   Air rifle: 1. Oceanne Muller (Fra) 250.6 (10.4) 632.6, 2. Mary Carolynn Tucker (USA) 250.6 (10.0) 632.1, 3. Ramita 229.1 (629.8), 5. Mehuli Ghosh 186.8 (630.9), 8. Nisha Kanwar 122.5 (629.1).   Skeet: 1. Alishia Fayth Layne (USA) 46(2) 115, 2. Ganemat Sekhon 46(0) 110, 3. Sara Bongini (Ita) 35 (113), 6. Raiza Dhillon 14 (109) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-takes-air-pistol-gold/article36786608.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Kings edge Knight Riders to stay alive||Captain K.L. Rahul’s marvellous half-century enabled Punjab Kings to beat Kolkata Knight Riders by five wickets in a tense run chase and stay alive in IPL 2021. KKR, asked to bat, rode on its new-found sensation Venkatesh Iyer’s best IPL score, a 49-ball 67, to post a challenging 165 for seven at the Dubai International Stadium on Friday. PBKS achieved the target with three balls to spare. The left-handed Venkatesh, who flicked left-arm spinner Fabian Allen for a four off the first ball of the match, had an updated field-map in his brain as he picked the deliveries well and used his supple wrists to place the ball intelligently in the gaps. After the fall of his opening partner Shubman Gill, who was done in by an Arshdeep Singh delivery that moved in off the surface, Venkatesh forged an important well-crafted 72-run stand with Rahul Tripathi to provide KKR a sound platform. PBKS trump card Ravi Bishnoi broke the partnership by having Tripathi, who executed some attractive strokes on both sides in his 26-ball 34, caught on the on-side. Venkatesh, who produced a pulled six and a scooped four in a bouquet of spectacular shots, batted maturely to reach his second IPL 50 before pulling Bishnoi to deep mid-wicket in the 15th over. Nitish Rana scored an 18-ball 31 and KKR collected 44 in the last five even as Arshdeep came up with another impressive performance. Mayank Agarwal and Rahul batted with common sense to gather 70 and give PBKS a fine start. Mayank, who hit three fours and as many sixes in his 27-ball 40, was held at cover by Eoin Morgan, who had dropped the PBKS opener at the same position on zero, off Varun Chakravarthy. Varun struck again to remove Nicholas Pooran and mount pressure on PBKS. On a slow pitch, Rahul batted with composure to score a valuable 67 off 55 and take the chase deep. He was dismissed in the last over but his team managed to cross the line. KKR skipper Morgan, who fielded four full-time bowlers after dropping an unfit Lockie Ferguson, missed a fifth bowler. Shahrukh Khan's cameo was an invaluable contribution for PBKS.   PBKS 131 for three  PBKS were 131 for three in 16 overs with K.L. Rahul (54) and Hooda (1) at the crease. Mayank made 40||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkatesh-powers-knight-riders-to-165/article36786952.ece
02 October 2021||New Delhi,||Sunil ends international career||Veteran India men’s hockey team striker S.V. Sunil on Friday announced his international retirement, bringing the curtains down on a 14-year career during which he was part of the 2014 Asian Games gold-winning side. The 32-year-old Sunil, hailing from Karnataka, was not part of the team at the Tokyo Olympics. Sunil said it was time for him to make way for youngsters and help build a winning team for the future. He has appeared in 264 matches for India and scored 72 goals. “... time to take a break. More than 14 years after I wore India colours for the first time. I have decided to make myself unavailable for the national camp which begins next week,” Sunil, who grew up playing hockey with a bamboo stick due to his family’s limited resources, said in a statement on his Twitter handle. The Arjuna awardee from Somwarpet in Coorg made his international debut in 2007 at the Asia Cup which India won beating Pakistan in the final. The two-time Olympian (2012 and 2016) was member of the Indian team that won gold at the 2011 Asian Champions Trophy and silver in the same event in 2012. He also won gold and bronze at the 2014 and 2018 Asian Games besides a gold in the Asia Cup 2017. He played an instrumental role in the team’s historic silver medal wins at the 2016 and 2018 FIH Champions Trophy. Sunil also led the forward-line in the 2015 World League Final where the team won a bronze and was also part of the team that won bronze at the same event in 2017 in Bhubaneswar. He also has a silver from the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam congratulated Sunil for his “contribution to Indian hockey and for being an inspiration to an entire generation of young players”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunil-ends-international-career/article36786957.ece
02 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Natl. TSD rally is back||The National Time Speed Distance (TSD) rally makes a comeback after 2016, with the JK Tyre FMSCI Indian National Regularity Run Championship. The Rally of Bangalore, the first of five South Zone rounds, will be flagged off at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday, and will end at Hampi. Competitors will then take part in the second round, named Rally De Hampi and conducted by Motorsports Academy of Vijayanagar, in Hampi on Sunday. “We are grateful to JK Tyre for reviving the national TSD championship. TSD is the stepping stone; all international rally stars started their careers here,” former rally champion B.S. Sujith Kumar, director of organising club Prosports, said here on Friday.  Teams, consisting of a driver and a navigator, will be slotted into various categories — Championship Class, Open Class, Corporate Class, Couple Class and Star of Karnataka (novice). “We have also introduced a Ladies Cup to promote rallying among women. There will be no entry fee for Ladies Cup,” Sujith said. Sujith, who will act as the Course Clerk for both rounds, added that pre-event scrutiny checks will be conducted to ensure the safety of all competitors. The objective of a regularity rally, or TSD rally, is to drive each segment of a course in a specified time at a specified average speed. The emphasis is not on achieving high speeds, but on crisp directions given to the driver by the navigator. This type of rally usually generates maximum interest from novices and amateurs who seek to enter the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-tsd-rally-is-back/article36786989.ece
02 October 2021||Madrid,||Koeman’s time at Camp Nou running out||A revival is surely beyond Ronald Koeman even if Barcelona beats Atletico Madrid on Saturday, but Antoine Griezmann will hope his own resurgence is just beginning. Only the schedule is on Koeman's side now, with the international break next week dictating that it makes more sense for Barca to change coach after its trip to the Wanda Metropolitano than before. The 3-0 defeat by Benfica in the Champions League on Wednesday left Koeman’s team at the bottom of Group E and struggling to make the knockout stages. In LaLiga, it sits sixth, although its position could be more easily rectified, given it is only five points adrift of leader Real Madrid, with a game in hand. Few, though, appear ready to give Koeman time to make amends. Fuelling the fire Koeman’s performances in public have fuelled the fire as well, a feud with club president Joan Laporta in recent weeks adding to the sense that his time at Camp Nou is running out. A two-match suspension means Koeman will not be on the touchline on Saturday. In the summer, Laporta told Koeman he would need two weeks to find a possible replacement but none was found. Xavi Hernandez, Roberto Martinez and Andrea Pirlo are the names at the top of Laporta’s shortlist.  Griezmann was among those let go, his two-year boomerang from Atletico to Barcelona and back to Atletico one of the clearest demonstrations of short-term thinking at Camp Nou.      The fixtures:   Saturday: Osasuna v Rayo Vallecano, Mallorca v Levante, Cadiz v Valencia, Atletico Madrid v Barcelona.   Sunday: Elche v Celta Vigo, Espanyol v Real Madrid, Getafe v Real Sociedad, Villarreal v Real Betis, Granada v Sevilla .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koemans-time-at-camp-nou-running-out/article36787360.ece
02 October 2021||Manchester,||Liverpool, Manchester City resume battle for top spot||Liverpool and Manchester City resume their rivalry for top spot when they go head to head in the Premier League this weekend, while Chelsea and Manchester United aim to get their title challenges back on track. Under Pep Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp, City and Liverpool have become the dominant forces in English football, sharing the past four Premier League titles between them. City, which has won three of those, delivered a warning shot to the pretenders to the crown with a hugely impressive 1-0 win at Chelsea last weekend. Unbeaten record But it is Liverpool which boasts the only unbeaten record after six games and finds itself a point clear of City, Chelsea and United, even though it dropped two points at Brentford last week. City ended itss long wait for a win away to Liverpool in emphatic fashion with a 4-1 victory in February but it has not won in front of a crowd at Anfield since 2003. Fatigue could take its toll on Guardiola's men after a draining week. Three days after their statement win at Stamford Bridge, the English champion was beaten 2-0 by Paris Saint-Germain in the French capital. Liverpool, by contrast, was able to ease off the gas long before the end of a 5-1 Champions League win over Porto. United needed all 95 minutes to edge past Villarreal in its midweek Champions League game, emerging as victors thanks to Cristiano Ronaldo's dramatic stoppage-time winner. The late intervention from the Portuguese superstar stopped the rot for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's men after a run of three defeats in four games. Everton heads to Old Trafford level on points with Solskjaer's men after an impressive start to life under Rafael Benitez. Brilliant start Chelsea made a brilliant start to the season under Thomas Tuchel, picking up where it left off after beating Manchester City in the Champions League final in May. City exacted a measure of revenge at Stamford Bridge last week and Chelsea slipped up again in the Champions League in midweek, losing 1-0 to Juventus. But Tuchel's men appear to have a relatively straightforward task as they seek to return to winning ways against winless Southampton at home. Just three weeks after topping the Premier League table, Nuno Espirito Santo's position as Tottenham manager has been questioned by fans following three dismal league defeats on the spin. Spurs have lost to Crystal Palace, Chelsea and Arsenal by a combined score of 9-1 to fall back into the bottom half of the table.  The fixtures:   Saturday: Manchester United v Everton, Burnley v Norwich, Chelsea v Southampton, Leeds v Watford, Wolves v Newcastle, Brighton v Arsenal.   Sunday: Crystal Palace v Leicester, Tottenham v Aston Villa, West Ham v Brentford, Liverpool v Manchester City .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-manchester-city-resume-battle-for-top-spot/article36787149.ece
02 October 2021||Oslo,||Youngsters come to grips with the world’s best||The youngsters in the Indian wrestling contingent will seek to gain big-stage experience at the World Championships, starting here on Saturday. Proven performers such as Bajrang Punia, Ravi Dahiya, Vinesh Phogat and Deepak Punia are all missing from the squad either due to injury issues or lack of preparation.  Hence it is a tremendous chance for youngsters like Ravinder Dahiya (61kg), Rohit (65kg), Yash Tushir (74kg), Pruthviraj Basaheb Patil (92kg) and Anirudh Gulia (125kg) to get some experience of the senior World championships, having graduated from the junior level. But, the expectations will be high on Anshu Malik (57kg), who is the only wrestler here who was at the Tokyo Olympics. She has delivered a podium finish at five of the six international events, barring the Olympic Games, that she has participated in at the senior level. Sarita Mor is one of the most experienced wrestlers in the women’s squad, someone who knows what it takes to win a medal at this level. She has won titles at the Asian level but the World championship is where she has always struggled. She has made five attempts at the senior level and once at the under-23 level but could never reach the podium rounds. Sangeeta back It will be interesting to see how Sangeeta Phogat fares. It will not be easy since she is returning to the circuit from injury. Divya Kakran, after missing the Tokyo Olympics, must be eager to prove herself. She will compete in the 72kg category instead of her usual 68kg, in which the seasoned Ritu Malik will represent India. Making up the squad are teenagers Hanny (50kg), Pooja Jatt (53kg) and Bhateri (65kg). The men’s squad wears a completely new look. Except Satyawart Kadiyan (97kg) all others are at their first senior Worlds.  Bajrang, Ravi Dahiya, Vinesh and Deepak Punia missing from squad Anshu has had a podium finish at five of six senior events so far After five fruitless attempts, Sarita will be eager to prove herself||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/youngsters-come-to-grips-with-the-worlds-best/article36787150.ece
02 October 2021||Nagpur:,||TN-Chandigarh called off because of rain||The Vinoo Mankad Trophy under-19 one-day match between Tamil Nadu and Chandigarh was called off after rain intervened during the lunch interval. Electing to field, Manava Parakh’s four-wicket haul helped TN restrict Chandigarh to just 170 before it started raining. The teams shared two points each.  The scores:   Chandigarh 170 in 48.1 overs (Paras 37, Arbab Iqbal 31, Manav Parakh 4/25) vs Tamil Nadu.  Pondicherry women down Tamil Nadu R. Roshini’s unbeaten 72 helped Pondicherry beat Tamil Nadu by two wickets in the BCCI Women’s u-19 (Elite B) one-dayers in Nagpur on Friday.  The scores: Tamil Nadu 151/8 in 50 overs (R. Aaisha Bee 50, C. Srimeera 2/25, R. Abirame 2/26, Amruta Saran 2/17) lost to Pondicherry 153/7 in 49 overs (R. Roshini 72 n.o., C. Shushaanthika 2/24, K.P. Sathvika 2/31) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-chandigarh-called-off-because-of-rain/article36787143.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,||Long jumper Sherin looking for a coach||As a little girl, Sherin Abdul Gafoor used to play cricket. She had also tried out swimming and gymnastics and was a good dancer too. “My dad (Abdul Gafoor) was a cricketer in Chennai, so he pushed me into cricket and I played for a year,” said Sherin, the recent under-23 Nationals long jump champion, in chat with The Hindu . As years went by, the Chennai girl realised that long jump was her true calling. With her twin brother Sharon into 400m hurdles, Sherin took to athletics when she was in the seventh standard and began doing long jump seriously from the 11th standard. Now, with her personal best 6.45m at the under-23 Nationals, Sherin is in a select bunch of seven jumpers who have done at least 6.45m in the last 10 years, a list that includes stars like Mayookha Johny, Prajusha, Neena and Shaili Singh who have won medals in Asian Games, Commonwealth Games or under-20 Worlds. “Long jump is pretty competitive now, 6m is no longer a barrier, there are many young girls doing well. “That is motivating me to do well,” said the 21-year-old. That should take the event to a wonderful high with many majors next year. Correct mistakes “My goal now is to improve my personal best in my next competition, if I correct my mistakes in take-off and landing, it’s possible to even do something like 6.60m.” Sherin, coached by P. Nagarajan at the Prime Sports Academy earlier, is now without a coach and is keen to join the National camp. “Senior long jumpers now coach me at the Nehru Stadium. I need a good coach, it will be good if they take me into the National camp.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/long-jumper-sherin-looking-for-a-coach/article36787291.ece
02 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Unbeaten Miracle primed to take the Deccan Derby||Trainer P. Shroff’s unbeaten filly Miracle, who is in great heart, should not find it difficult to win the Golden Jubilee Deccan Derby (Gr.1), the stellar attraction of Saturday’s (Oct. 2) races here.  SMT. TEEGALA SULOCHANA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II), 12.15 p.m.: 1. Bisate (6) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. N R I Valley (4) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 3. Ashwa Yashobali (7) Gaurav Singh 56, 4. Staridar (1) Abhay Singh 56, 5. Lombardy (2) S. Zervan 54.5, 6. Maxwell (3) Mukesh Kumar 54, 7. Her Legacy (8) G. Naresh 53.5 and 8. Balius (5) B.R. Kumar 51.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. BISATE,   3. N R I VALLEY   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 12.45: 1. Castlerock (10) Md. Ismail 60, 2. Amyra (5) Neeraj 59.5, 3. Trump Star (6) Deepak Singh 59.5, 4. Colachel Battle (12) Surya Prakash 59, 5. Mind Reader (8) B.R. Kumar 59, 6. Nearest (3) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 7. Gusty Note (4) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 8. Alluri’s Pride (7) R. Ajinkya 54, 9. Whiskey Martini (9) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 10. Aibak (11) Aneel 53, 11. Look Of Love (2) Rafique Sk. 52.5 and 12. Flamingo Fame (1) Santosh Raj 50.  1. AMYRA, 2. COLACHEL BATTLE,   3. TRUMP STAR   MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 1.20: 1. Scramjet (6) P. Trevor 60, 2. Lockhart (4) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 3. Crazy Horse (8) Mukesh Kumar 55, 4. Mark My Day (5) B.R. Kumar 54, 5. All Time Legend (10) A.A. Vikrant 53.5, 6. Southern Princess (7) S. Zervan 53.5, 7. Just Incredible (3) Aneel 53, 8. Siyavash (1) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 9. Watch My Stride (2) Akshay Kumar 51.5 and 10. Cheltenham (9) Afroz Khan 51.  1. SCRAMJET, 2. WATCH MY STRIDE, 3. SOUTHERN PRINCESS   ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 1.55: 1. Honest Hunter (2) Deepak Singh 60, 2. House Of Diamonds (4) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. N R I Elegance (7) Gaurav Singh 58, 4. Xfinity (6) P. Sai Kumar 58, 5. City Of Bliss (3) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 6. Sublime (8) Ajit Singh 55, 7. Different (10) Md. Ismail 54, 8. Cosmic Run (1) Kiran Naidu 53.5, 9. N R I Magic (5) Aneel 53.5 and 10. Good Connection (9) S. Zervan 53.  1. GOOD CONNECTION, 2. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS, 3. XFINITY   TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I), 2.35: 1. Corfe Castle (4) Gaurav Singh 63, 2. Victory Parade (3) P.S. Chouhan 59.5, 3. Galloping Gangster (6) R. Ajinkya 54, 4. Premier Action (1) Afroz Khan 54, 5. Prince Valiant (7) Khurshad Alam 53, 6. Smashing Blue (5) Akshay Kumar 52.5 and 7. Ashwa Bravo (2) Ashad Asbar 50.  1. ASHWA BRAVO, 2. CORFE CASTLE, 3. VICTORY PARADE   MYSORE RACE CLUB CUP (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.10: 1. Super Angel (6) Abhay Singh 62.5, 2. Painted Apache (10) P. Trevor 62, 3. By The Bay (3) Santosh Raj 61.5, 4. Zamazenta (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 5. Muaser (8) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 6. Call Of The Blue (1) B.R. Kumar 58, 7. Ashwa Migsun (5) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 8. Rhythm Selection (2) Kuldeep Singh 55, 9. Dillon (4) B. Nikhil 53.5 and 10. Bedazzled (7) P. Sai Kumar 50.  1. ZAMAZENTA, 2. PAINTED APACHE, 3. SUPER ANGEL   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.45: 1. Soloist (13) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 2. Stunning Force (11) Ashad Asbar 59.5, 3. Campania (3) P. Trevor 58.5, 4. Moonlight Ruby (8) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 5. General Atlantic (6) B. Nikhil 57.5, 6. Lacrosse (1) S. Zervan 57.5, 7. City Of Passion (16) Mukesh Kumar 57, 8. Steve Rogers (7) S.S. Tanwar 56.5, 9. Nightmare (10) B.R. Kumar 55.5, 10. Beauty Flame (4) Ajit Singh 53.5, 11. Fatuma (14) Gaurav Singh 53.5, 12. Prime Gardenia (15) Abhay Singh 53.5, 13. Isra (2) Aneel 52.5, 14. Rhine (5) G. Naresh 52.5, 15. That’s My Way (9) Rafique Sk. 51 and 16. Win Vision (12) Santosh Raj 50.  1. SOLOIST, 2. LACROSSE,   3. CAMPANIA   GOLDEN JUBILEE DECCAN DERBY (Gr. 1) (2,000m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.20: 1. Akido (9) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Angelico (7) A. Sandesh 56, 3. Aries (10) Bhawani 56, 4. Fire Power (5) S. Zervan 56, 5. Johannesburg (1) N.S. Parmar 56, 6. Silvarius (11) Antony Raj S 56, 7. Southern Dynasty (2) C.S. Jodha 56, 8. Stockbridge (6) P. Trevor 56, 9. Zuccarelli (12) Neeraj 56, 10. Miracle (3) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 11. New Look (8) Mukesh Kumar 54.5 and 12. Scintillating Lass (4) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. MIRACLE, 2. FIRE POWER,   3. ZUCCARELLI   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45, 5.00: 1. City Of Blossom (9) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Four One Four (4) Deepak Singh 59.5, 3. Appenzelle (5) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 4. Linewiler (7) Afroz Khan 57.5, 5. Blissful (12) Nakaht Singh 55.5, 6. Beauty On Parade (1) A.A. Vikrant 54, 7. Star Babe (2) Akshay Kumar 54, 8. Top In Class (10) Ashad Asbar 54, 9. N R I Blue (11) Gaurav Singh 53, 10. Battle Ready (8) Md. Ismail 52.5, 11. Hurricane (3) Abhay Singh 52 and 12. California Beauty (6) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. N R I BLUE, 2. STAR BABE,   3. BEAUTY ON PARADE  Day’s best: SCRAMJET  Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 4, 5 & 6; (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-miracle-primed-to-take-the-deccan-derby/article36786606.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||We need to do what’s best for Hardik: Jayawardene||Mumbai Indians head coach Mahela Jayawardene said if Hardik Pandya bowls in the IPL, it may hurt his chances as a batter. Hardik, picked as an all-rounder for the T20 World Cup with India’s chief selector Chetan Sharma stressing he will “bowl in every match”, missed the first two games of the second leg and hasn’t bowled in any of the matches he has played so far. Evaluate “Whether he can bowl in the IPL or not is something that we will have to look at on a daily basis and evaluate and then see how he progresses. “I understand all concerns, but we need to do what’s best for Hardik and him going forward. He will be an asset as a bowler as well,” Jayawardene said on Friday, ahead of MI’s tie against Delhi Capitals, the team in form. “But at the moment if we push too hard, it might be an issue where he might even struggle and not be an asset as a batter. So that’s something that we will have to take into account with all concerned parties and take it a day at a time.” Jayawardene admitted Hardik, who has been struggling with a back injury since 2018, had an additional niggle in the lead-up to the IPL, without giving out the details. “Because he hasn’t bowled since Sri Lanka for a longer period of time and he had another niggle and managed getting through that proces,” Jayawardene said. “I understand the World Cup (is to follow) as well. We are talking to the Indian team management and making sure that as soon as he feels comfortable, we get him to the bowling programme and prepare him.” Wobbly middle-order Despite Hardik and Kieron Pollard coming good with the willow against Punjab Kings earlier in the week, an in-form Capitals bowling unit will be keen to expose MI’s wobbly middle order. Having put one foot in the playoffs, Rishabh Pant and Co. will hope to continue the mini-battle against Chennai Super Kings for the top spot in the table.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-do-whats-best-for-hardik-jayawardene/article36786945.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals have a tough task against Super Kings||Rajasthan Royals will face a tough test against table-toppers Chennai Super Kings in Abu Dhabi on Saturday in a match that could decide its fate in the competition. Royals, currently seventh in the table with just four wins, need to win their remaining three matches by good margins to have any hope of reaching the playoffs. If not for Kartik Tyagi’s brilliant final over against Punjab Kings, the team would not even have the solitary win it has in the UAE so far. The main problem for Royals has been the misfiring middle-order with an over-reliance on skipper Sanju Samson. In the previous game against RCB, it slipped from 100/1 to 149/9. CSK, on the other hand, is under no pressure after having sealed its playoff berth with a six-wicket win over Sunrisers Hyderabad on Thursday. With nine wins from 11 matches, the team can now afford to experiment with players who have not played regularly and coach Stephen Fleming stated the team would look into it. “We will certainly talk about how we can manage our players, making sure that we manage the team that played today (Thursday) and also the opportunities for guys who are on the fringe. So we have (been) afforded that luxury now, but we won’t be too experimental,” said Fleming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-have-a-tough-task-against-super-kings/article36786950.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Punam earned our respect, says Smriti||Smriti Mandhana took off her helmet, raised her bat, tossed the hair off her face, and allowed herself a smile. She said at a virtual press conference that she had been visualising the moment — a celebration of her hundred — during the 14-day quarantine in Australia. “But that celebration (in the visualisation) was different to what I did today,” she said, smiling. “I don’t know why I become shy when it actually happens.” Her maiden Test hundred earned praise from many. But there was another Indian batter who caught as much attention. Punam Raut’s decision to walk when the umpire did not give her out — after her faint edge was taken behind the stumps — rightly won her many admirers. Smriti said Punam earned the respect of her teammates. “Our first reaction was ‘why did you do that’, but then that is something we all respect her for,” she said.  There seemed to be a really faint edge. It was her discretion to walk or not. And she did Ellyse Perry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punam-earned-our-respect-says-smriti/article36786953.ece
02 October 2021||DOHA,||Indian men lose to Korea, finish with a bronze||Korea justified its top billing with a clinical 3-0 win over India in the men’s team semifinals of the 25th-ITTF ATTU Asian table tennis championships on Friday. India picked up the bronze, its best-ever performance in the continental event being held under the aegis of Asian Table Tennis Union since 1972. After G. Sathiyan and Sharath Kamal had lost their matches in four and five games respectively, Harmeet Desai gave it his all before losing to Cho Seungmin in five thrilling games. The Indian women’s team finished fifth, defeating Thailand 3-1.  The results: Men: Semifinals: Korea bt India 3-0 (Jang Woojin bt G. Sathiyan 11-5, 10-12, 11-8, 11-5; Lee Sangsu bt Sharath Kamal 7-11, 15-13, 8-11, 11-6, 11-9; Cho Seungmin bt Harmeet Desai 11-4, 9-11, 8-11, 11-6, 13-11); Chinese Taipei bt Japan 3-2.   Women: 5-6 positions: India bt Thailand 3-1 (Archana Kamath lost to Suthasini Sawettabut 7-11, 11-7, 6-11, 12-10, 9-11; Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Phantita Pinyopisan 11-5, 11-5, 11-6; Sreeja Akula bt Wirakarn Tayapitak 11-7, 11-6, 11-2; Sutirtha bt Suthasini 11-7, 11-6, 10-12, 11-7); Final: Japan bt Korea 3-0.   Individual round: Women’s singles, first round: Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Ali Maha (Qat) 11-4, 11-3, 11-4.   Mixed doubles, round of 16: Manav Thakkar & Archana Kamath bt Kirill Gerassimenko & Anastassiya Lavrova (Kaz) 11-4, 11-13, 8-11, 11-6, 11-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-lose-to-korea-take-bronze/article36786959.ece
02 October 2021||KOCHI,||Lijo fires in four goals||Lijo Gilbert fired in four goals as Thiruvananthapuram thrashed Pathanamthitta 7-2 and entered the quarterfinal of the 57th State senior inter-district football championship at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Friday.  The results (pre-quarterfinals):   Thiruvananthapuram 7 (Lijo Gilbert 7, 37, 65 & 90; Stefin Das 27, Eldhose George 85, Anittan 87) bt Pathanamthitta 2 (Christin Wilson 14, Vysakh Baburaj 49); Kasargod 4 (A. Kamaludheen 19, Bilal Muhammed 23, Kunhimuhammed 67, Noorshad 90) bt Alappuzha 1 (Ananthakrishnan 57); Kannur 7 (Shibi 35; and in tiebreaker Shibi, Jyothish, P. Vishnu, Mukathar, Rashid, Safad) bt Kollam 6 (A. Aslam 84; Nikhil Manhas, Jidhu K. Roby, Ujjwal Suresh, S. Sibin, P.K. Faseen) in tiebreaker. Full-time 1-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lijo-fires-in-four-goals/article36787294.ece
02 October 2021||Chennai,||Second round of National Drag Racing||Close to 100 riders will congregate at the MMRT here this weekend for the second round of MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Drag Racing Championship 2021 with some super-quick superbikes along with homegrown machines in action. The Super Sport 851-1050cc and Above 1051cc categories will headline the races. Bengaluru’s reigning National champion Hemant Muddappa, astride BMW S1000 RR has been dominating the Above 1051cc category, but suffered a defeat to Hyderabad’s Md Riyaz (Yamaha R1) in the 851-1050cc class in the first round in August. Besides the above two premier categories, the card also contains races in six other classes: 2-stroke (Super Sport) Up to 130cc and 131-165cc; Girls (4-Stroke) Up to 165cc; and Super Sport Indian Up to 165cc, 226-360cc and 361-550cc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/second-round-of-drag-racing-championship-set-to-begin/article36787147.ece
02 October 2021||Lisboa (Portugal),||Jeevan and Purav in final||Top seeded Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja beat wild card entrants Jaime Faria and Luis Faria 4-6, 6-3, [10-5] in the doubles semifinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Sibiu, Romania: Quarterfinals: Sumit Nagal bt Geoffrey Blancaneaux (Fra) 7-6(3), 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Murcia, Spain: Semifinals: Alberto Barroso Campos & Roberto Carballes Baena (Esp) bt Sriram Balaji & Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-5, 7-6(6).   $15,000 ITF men, Cancun, Mexico: Quarterfinals: Austin Ansari (USA) & Siddhant Banthia bt Alejandro Mendoza (Bol) & Andres Urrea (Col) 6-1, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Eszter Meri (Svk) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-and-purav-in-final/article36786609.ece
02 October 2021||YANKTON (USA),||Atanu misses out on bronze||Atanu Das lost in the bronze medal match to return without a podium finish in the archery World Cup Final (WCF) here on Thursday. Against reigning Olympic champion Mete Gazoz of Turkey, Atanu lost 6-0 in straight sets. Gazoz won 29-27, 27-26, 30-28. Atanu rallied to beat German Maximilian Weckmuller 6-2 (26-27, 29-25, 29-28, 29-28) in the recurve men’s individual quarterfinals. However, he was beaten 6-2 (29-28, 28-27, 29-30, 30-27) by World No. 1 Brady Ellison of the USA in the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atanu-misses-out-on-bronze/article36786943.ece
02 October 2021||Sitges (Spain),||India in final||R. Vaishali provided the lead and Tania Sachdev finished the job for 2.5-1.5 victory in the second set as India upstaged third seed Georgia for a place in the final of the FIDE World women’s team chess championship on Friday. In the other semifinal, top seed Russia defeated Ukraine. Amid mounting tension, after India led 1.5-0.5 following Vaishali’s victory on the second board, a previously-undefeated Mary Ann Gomes slipped into an inferior position. Tania held the Indian hopes and finally got it right to give it a memorable victory.  The results (semifinals):   Set 1: Georgia drew with India 2-2 (Nana Dzagnidze drew with D. Harika; Nino Batsiashvili drew with R. Vaishali; Lela Javakhishvili bt Bhakti Kulkarni; Salome Melia lost to Mary Ann Gomes); Russia bt Ukraine 2.5-1.5.   Set 2: India bt Geor gia 2.5-1.5 (Harika drew with Dzagnidze; Vaishali bt Batsiashvili; Tania Sachdev bt Meri Arabidze; Mary lost to Lela Javakhishvili). Ukraine lost to Russia 1-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-georgia-first-set-drawn/article36786944.ece
02 October 2021||SAO PAULO,||Pele discharged||Brazilian football legend Pele left a hospital here after several weeks on Thursday, and a hospital bulletin said he would undergo chemotherapy following the removal of a colon tumour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pele-discharged/article36786948.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Shriya, Abhinandh emerge champions||Shriya Anand and P.B. Abhinandh won the girls’ and boys’ under-15 titles in the MSSTTA Tamizhaga State table tennis championship on Friday.  The results:   Girls: Under-15: Shriya Anand (DBAA) bt N. Sharvani (LTTA) 12-10, 15-13, 11-3; Under-11: Maya Ashwath (Ellis Mdu) bt M Sadhana (Chennai Achievers) 11-4, 11-7, 11-13, 11-3.   Boys: Under-15: P.B. Abhinandh (Chennai Achievers) bt S. Sriram (Chennai Achievers) 11-8, 17-15, 7-11, 4-11, 11-7, 11-5; Under-11: K. Sathya Narayanan (HTTA Theni) bt Sanjay Aravind (SSA Erd) 11-6, 8-11, 11-9, 8-11, 11-5 .    The pair of Dhakshineshwar Suresh and Parikshit Somani bagged the men’s doubles title with a 6-3, 6-2 win over Krishna Teja Raja and Ajay Kannan in the Appaswamy Open tennis championship at the MPTA, Krishnan Tennis Centre, on Friday. Dhakshineshwar had defeated Somani 6-2, 6-0 in the singles semifinals earlier in the day. He will take on Fardeen Qamar, a 6-3, 7-6(4) winner over K.S. Siddharth Arya in the other last-four clash. In the women’s doubles summit clash, Reshma Maruri and Akansha Nitture defeated Pooja Ingale and Vanshita Pathania 6-3, 6-2.  The results:   Singles (semifinals): Men: Fardeen Qamar bt K.S. Siddharth Arya 6-3, 7-6(4); Dhakshineshwar Suresh bt Parikshit Somani 6-2, 6-0.   Women: Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Yubrani Banerjee 6-2, 6-0; Reshma Maruri bt C. Sai Samhitha 6-4, 4-0, concd.   Doubles (finals): Men: Dhakshineshwar & Parikshit bt Krishna Teja Raja & Ajay Kannan 6-3, 6-2.   Women: Reshma Maruri & Akansha Nitture bt Pooja Ingale & Vanshita Pathania 6-3, 6-2 .    S. Dinesh bowled Krish to a 24-run win over Reddy CC with a six-wicket haul in the CDCA first division league recently.  The scores:   I div.: Dev CC 273/6 in 50 overs (Aashish Sharma Bheda 90, Ganesh Siva Kumar 60, R. Raj kumar 56) bt RKS CC 105 in 30.5 overs (I. Syed Imran Ahmed 32, S. Kumar 4/38, S. Harish 3/19).   Krish CC 151 in 34.2 overs (N. Christopher 34, G. Manikandan 29, S. Praveen Kumar 25, Yogendra Sharma 4/40, S. Harish Sasi Kumar 3/16) bt Reddy CC 127 in 30.1 overs (P. Praveen Kumar 39, V. Udesh Milan 31, S. Dinesh 6/35).   Mamallapuram CC 158/7 in 40 overs (S. Srinivasan 67, S. Suresh Kumar 41, D. Seethapathi 3/36) lost to Challengers CC 159/6 in 30.2 overs (Krish Jain 52, G. Santhosh 33, V. Vijaykrishna 3/32).  Cricket tournament CCCA-P.V.H Babu memorial open tournament for private clubs, academies and TNCA league teams will be held from October 6. For details, contact G. Prasanna at 87780 66674.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shriya-abhinandh-emerge-champions/article36787067.ece
02 October 2021||BENGALURU:,||Roshini guides Karnataka home||Roshini Kiran scored an unbeaten half-century as Karnataka defeated Himachal Pradesh by eight wickets in the BCCI under-19 women’s one-day trophy in Jaipur.  Meanwhile in Indore, Karnataka’s Vinoo Mankad Trophy under-19 tournament match against Saurashtra was marred by rain and was eventually called off with Saurashtra down two wickets for nought while chasing 157 from 25 overs.  The scores: At Jaipur: Under-19 women: Himachal Pradesh 96 in 38.2 overs (K. Chandasi 3/28) lost to Karnataka 97/2 in 25.5 overs (Roshini Kiran 53 n.o.).   At Indore: Vinoo Mankad Trophy: Karnataka 156 in 25 overs (P. Raghuveer 42, Aneeshwar Gautam 77, Aum Kanabar 4/24, Bhagyarajsingh Chudasama 4/35) vs. Saurashtra 0/2 in 2.2 overs. Match called off due to rain .    An all-round performance by R. Daivik (30 n.o. and 7/25) helped his team Kollegal CC register a 16-run win over Bellur CC in the KSCA Mysore Zone inter-club under-16 tournament on Friday.  The scores: Kollegal CC 131/8 in 50 overs (R. Daivik 30 n.o., Aditya Naik 25) bt Bellur CC 115 in 34 overs (Md. Khais 25, R. Daivik 7/25).   Parashurama CC 127 in 26.3 overs (C.A. Nischal 74, C. Sandesh 5/16, N. Varun 3/46) bt Yuvaraja’s College 121 in 31.1 overs (C.A. Nischal 5/18, Adarsh 3/26).   National CC 246/5 in 50 overs (Varun Patel 63, R. Raaj 47) bt Jaihind CC 83 in 28.3 overs (Vibodh Ramesh 3/20).   Karavali Cricketers 151 in 43 overs (Sukdev Tejasvi 51, Samarth Bharadwaj 3/30) bt The Mysore Gymkhana 109 in 45.2 overs (Yashas S. Rao 25, L. Mohith 32, Dakshath 5/19).   City Cricketers 80 in 34.4 overs (Prabhav Sharma 4/17, K.L. Tharun Kumar 3/15) lost to RBNCC 84/1 in 10.5 overs (P. Hrishikesh 45 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roshini-guides-karnataka-home/article36786988.ece
02 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||VDFA selections||The Visakhapatnam District Football Association (VDFA) will organise senior men’s selections at the Andhra University ground from 6.30 a.m. on October 3 and 4. Interested can report at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vdfa-selections/article36787359.ece
03 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The Lord’s magnanimity||The Lord is the sole creator of this manifold creation, actions etc, but these do not bind Him in any way. All beings in creation are under His control. But the jiva, being endowed with jnana, desire and prayatna, effort, is solely responsible for his actions good and bad. But all actions of all jivas are under the control of the Lord, says the Brahmasutra. In a discourse, Asuri Sri Madhavachariar drew attention to the way Vedanta Desika explains the relationship between the Lord’s control with respect to the jivatma’s actions from five stances or viewpoints. The Lord is primarily the ‘Karayitha,’ the facilitator, by whose will the jiva is able to think, act, etc. Second, He is the ‘Karta,’ the doer, as He alone can grant the fruits of every jiva’s actions. He is the doer also from the angle of His engagement with Srishti, Stiti, Samhara, etc. He is ‘Upekshaka,’ that is, He maintains distance from the jivatma’s actions, which are driven by each one’s individual karma. He neither interferes nor does He prevent. He is ‘Anumantha,’ that is, He allows and permits the actions while being a witness to everything. Finally, He is the Sahakari, the helper, who supports all our actions. He is the unseen force behind every action in creation including a blade of grass. But for His help no jiva can move even his little finger. To highlight the extent of the Lord’s contribution in the jiva’s achievements, the acharya uses the analogy of how when carrying a heavy load, the strong tend to bear the weighty burden and leave the weightless portion to the weak. More than that, when a jivatma surrenders to Him, He carries the burden of our karma and relieves us of all our sins to grant moksha. The Lord’s magnanimity is such that He goes out of the way to help the jiva out of samsara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-lords-magnanimity/article36786905.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 08:38 IST,||Sudoku — October 2, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-1-2021/article36787608.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Spirited Away: India to the||The Americas may not be on our travel itineraries for a while longer, but we can experience it vicariously — via the native spirits of the region. Full of flavour, these form the base of some exquisite cocktails finding fans across the globe, and now they are available in India (selectively available in markets such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Gurgaon and Bengaluru). The prices may just break the bank, but their appeal in your bar is unparalleled. Mezcal I attended a mezcal tasting in 2017 hosted by Sergio Inurrigarro, a Master Mezcalier (the only certification endorsed by the Mexican government). Mezcal, like tequila, is an agave-based spirit. The key difference is that while the latter can only be made from one type of agave, the Agave Tequilana or the Blue Weber, the former can be made from up to 30 different types of agave. Inurrigarro did an expert job of guiding us through the four different mezcal brands. He also explained the importance of the kiss method (taking small sips, much like small kisses) as a way to let the enzymes in the saliva break down the alcohol. This is particularly important because the smoky, earthy spirit, he claimed, represents the purest form of alcohol. A point later reinforced by Jay Khan, owner of Coa in Hong Kong, a bar devoted to agave spirits. He explained his passion for the agave succinctly: “These spirits are the only ones that express their flavour naturally.” (The Caffeinated Negroni, with a splash of mezcal, is one of their signatures. So good, I had two!) Captivated by the brands I drank that evening, I searched for them locally, only to be bitterly disappointed. Flash forward to 2021, and we have not one, but three mezcal brands available in the market: Creyente (represented by Monika Enterprises, Rs. 7,400*), Perro de San Juan (represented by Two Friends, Rs. 9,975*), and Mezcal Meteoro (represented by The Vault, Rs. 11,600*). And although it may be late to the party, it very much appears to be a product that can ride the premiumisation wave in India, a trend that will parallel what we have seen over recent years internationally. Of late, it has gained considerable popularity among consumers and has also become a darling of the bartender community. “I love mezcal because of its extraordinary smoky character,” says Santanu Chanda, from Home in New Delhi. “While making a mezcal drink, you can use it as an aroma [such as spray, mist, etc], but it also works radiantly as the main spirit, especially in ‘sour’ drinks.” Meanwhile, Keshav Prakash of The Vault feels that mezcal (and the other spirits profiled here) are going to be at the fore very soon and they “might run concurrent with gin post its euphoria”. Cachaca This spirit from South America is one I’ve unsuccessfully searched for in India until now. The Vault has recently introduced Capucana, a premium cachaca brand in India. The distilled spirit is made from sugarcane juice and can be considered the national spirit of Brazil. It reaches its apex in a cocktail called the Caipirinha. Visitors to the Oberoi in Mumbai can enjoy one. Capucana comes from the Piracicaba region of Brazil, and the name literally means ‘House of Canes’. It’s produced in the oldest cachaçera in Piracicaba, and the distinctive drink is a blend of nine varieties of fermented sugarcane from three farms — all distillates of different ages — which are matured for three years in American oak barrels. It has the grassiness of a typical Cachaca, but also a mellowness that comes from the time it spends in barrels.  A p isco break   I’ve always been a fan of the Pisco Sour and was pleasantly surprised to find out that Peru has a National Pisco Sour Day in February. Even better, they’d called me, not to Peru of course, but to the house of the Deputy Chief of Mission, to celebrate the day with them. In the house to talk about pisco — and La Botija, the brand imported by Monika Enterprises — was Dushyant Tanwar, their brand ambassador. Pisco for those unclear, is a grape brandy, a spirit distilled from wine. Any one of eight varieties of grapes can be used, but the one I drank, La Botija’s Pisco Quebranta (Rs. 4,499*), is distilled Quebranta grape juice, the widest grape varietal grown in Peru for the production of pisco. We started the evening by tasting the pisco neat. It’s drier in style, with aromas and flavours of fruits and some spice and, as Dushyant explained, in the case of the Peruvian pisco, nothing can be added to the spirit after distillation. Also, it’s bottled straight from the still. The Pisco Sour followed, as did two variations of it, the Amazonian Sour made with bananas and the Inca Sour, with avocados. Given the slump in the hospitality industry pan India, it was good to see the diplomatic community playing ambassador for their nation’s spirits, with the Mexican embassy supporting the launch of Creyente Mezcal in Gurugram earlier this year. Maybe a flight of fancy, but do you think someday we might see an Indian diplomat on a foreign mission, organise a f eni or m ahua tasting? Until then, let’s raise that glass of Pisco Sour high and enjoy.  * All pricing for Maharashtra   The writer is CEO of Tulleeho and co-founder of 30 Best Bars India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/spirited-away-india-to-the/article36786751.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Paradise regained||The peonies are lovely this year. They are scattered on yards of green, blue and yellow — of organza, georgette and crepe. The motif is central to Ashdeen Lilaowala’s Paradise Crafted, the latest collection of Parsi gara saris, jackets and skirts. As is the lotus, and the designer’s signatures such as the crane and the butterfly. But on a quick morning call, he waxes eloquent about the peonies. “We have worked the blossom in great detail,” he says. “The shading [with multiple colours], the rendering, it’s very realistic. The petals are curled, you can see the foreground and the background, making it very dynamic.” For close to two decades, Lilaowala has been researching the legacy of the Parsis’ intricate hand embroidery. He’s brought back key motifs — like the quirkily-named Cheena Cheeni (Chinese man and woman) — and rooted the storied craft in a contemporary vocabulary (iterations of slim pants, jackets, kaftans and tops are now trousseau essentials). And now, with every collection, he hones these connections. “We are constantly trying to find new links,” shares the designer, who is simultaneously working on what he hopes will be a seminal book on Parsi gara. “We’ve re-looked at our motifs... we have a butterfly sari, where we’ve taken the insects and blown them up. But, at the same time, the rendering is so realistic that it almost looks 3D,” he shares. For this collection, he’s worked with new fabrics, too, including lace, georgette satin and raw silk. With its debut in Chennai, at a pop-up at Amethyst a couple of days ago, the collection will go up on their website soon, and will head to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Baroda in November and December. In the meantime, Instagram has Chennai locals Kavya Ramachandran, co-founder of Sukha Education Foundation, and dancer Anita Ratnam captured at Egmore Museum and Napier Bridge, in the drapes. “With every city we visit, we connect with local photographers and models. Our only brief is to put our sari in their city’s context. We also get a few of our clients to wear the saris.” Lilaowala has expanded on the ‘paradise’ theme by incorporating a “Shangrila-esque feel” through embroidery featuring mountains, waterfalls and angels. But what inspired the paradise interpretations? “Post pandemic, the morale is low. There are a lot of mixed emotions. So, while we may not be in a Utopic situation, we can lighten things up, bring in a bit of joy. Like when you wear a sari from this line.”  Priced from Rs. 1,35,000 onwards. Check out Paradise Crafted — in rich, saturated colours such as alphonso yellow, tangerine, Irish purple, Arabian green, and the like — on ashdeen.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/paradise-regained/article36786758.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Two (positive) bathroom stories||This Saturday, I will be dealing with two unrelated incidents — both connected by a bathroom — that are nothing but positive and life-affirming, but have been given an entirely negative spin by the cynical press and an increasingly intolerant social media. The first incident pertains to Janata Dal (United) leader and Bihar MLA, Gopal Mandal. It was reported that he was spotted ‘roaming around in his undergarments’ while travelling in the AC first-class compartment of the Tejas Rajdhani Express, following which co-passengers objected to the leader’s ‘behaviour’. (Mandal’s defence that he needed to use the bathroom urgently because of which he removed his kurta -pyjama fell on deaf ears.) What’s so terrible with what he’s done that’s, pardon the choice of idiom, getting everyone’s komanams in a twist? What’s he done that Milind Soman hasn’t been doing on a weekly basis? Why is it okay for Soman to run around in picturesque locations, most likely singing ‘ Made i n India, Made i n India’ , and post his rearguard action on social media to a standing ovation from an appreciative public while Mandal, attired in respectable vest and drawers with nada , is accused of being vulgar, out of control and creating a ruckus? What about the topless uncles we are subjected to from time to time? Appearing at weddings and other family dos, baring their Dunlop daddaries with impunity to the unsuspecting public? Are any of these men warning passers-by or guests that they are going to be treated to a Mylaporean version of an all-male Moulin Rouge ? No, sir. How come that’s okay but Gopal Mandal is a vulgar, bad man. Stop being so hypocritical. If Milind, mamas, and certain melas can do it with not a care in the world, so can a Mandal. The next incident I want to talk of features one Mr Murli Kamat of Andheri, who occupied two hotel rooms for a period of eight months and ‘fled’ without paying the Rs. 25 lakh-bill he’d racked up. Via the bathroom window. What a bad man! How could he? This is how the incident is being reported in all the papers. And social media has been unnecessarily cruel, too, in my opinion. Why is this being twisted into something evil and cunning when all I can see is the good? By not paying Rs. 25 lakh, Kamat saved about Rs. 5,200 per day, good money that can be put to so many better uses like building infrastructure, setting up a pakora stall, etc. This is a lesson in financial planning. Had Kamat stayed in a 5-star hotel, he’d have saved 10k per day. Please note that Kamat used the bathroom window to exit. What does that prove? That he is slim and agile. Which can only mean one thing. He is a yoga practitioner. That the gentleman gave eight months of non-stop business to the ailing hospitality sector during the lockdown cannot be ignored. He boosted the morale of the waiters, housekeeping staff, etc, by being a constant reassuring presence in their lives. What is most important, however, is how he left. Quietly, humbly, in the middle of the night. He didn’t ask for a farewell party, return gifts or for the room to be named ‘The Murli Kamat Suite’. Such modesty can only come with yoga and following our ancient culture. Murli Kamat is a true patriot. I nominate him for the Mehul Choksi Engirundaalum Vaazhga Award for 2021. And Gopal Mandal for a cover feature in GQ on body positivity. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-positive-bathroom-stories/article36786763.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashoka, not a nice guy?||Ravi Shankar Etteth’s The Return of The Brahmin (Westland), like its predecessor The Brahmin (2018), is a historical thriller. However, calling it just that would mean not acknowledging the vast storyscape Etteth creates for his main characters — all of whom have grown in age and stature since the first book. For the generations used to reading about India’s kings and emperors from popular comics, where they were distinctly white or black, this series shows what might have possibly been. In the process, the author also imagines how a king who perhaps did not show kindness or remorse is still revered centuries later. Food and drink occupy an important role in the proceedings, and Etteth laughs when you mention that. Think medaka or rice beer, barley bread and butter, palm liquor, and the pork soup (believed to have been invented by the Buddha) that was “made from the flesh of succulent piglets cooked with butter and parsley, and a sprinkling of ginger and spring onions”. This series is pacy and teems with a certain grandness, much like Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s films, as a reviewer for this paper wrote about The Brahmin . That makes it eminently adaptable as a web or OTT series — possibly why media company Endemol has optioned it.  Priced at Rs. 277, The Return of The Brahmin is available on amazon.in   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ashoka-not-a-nice-guy/article36786740.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||At the crossroads||It’s the age of image-making and everything is photographed or videotaped, from the innocuous to the narcissistic to the macabre. But for this, we might never have seen first-hand the posse of policemen shooting several times at a man running towards them with alathi, an armed posse that could quite easily have overpowered him by numbers alone. In the following moments, we see visuals, ironically, of the ‘embedded’ videographer stomping savagely upon the man’s fallen body. He was later identified as Bijay Baniya and arrested; the fallen man was identified by his Aadhaar card as Maynal Haque, a villager from the area in Sipajhar in Assam that was forcibly evacuated last week. When humans created society and planted the first seeds of civilisation, they formed some broad ethical and moral structures to govern themselves. After all, they imagined themselves as sapient beings of a higher order. Some deeds were set outside the social pale — killing, for instance, or torture were labelled the most reprehensible crimes, attracting severe punishments. Yet, today, at the supposed acme of civilisation, we regularly see videos of people indulging in the most horrific violence. Not so long ago, it was a bangle-seller being brutally beaten in Indore. These visuals reveal three things: first, the sense of impunity with which the crimes are committed. Second, the public nature of the barbarism, with no disgrace or shame attached to it. And third, the absence of horror in large segments of viewers, many often applauding the deeds. Both perpetrators and purveyors exist then in a universe that is seemingly outside civilisational boundaries. How did we get here? After all, we are widely considered a spiritual nation; with Gandhi’s help we even threw out the powerful British using non-violence, not guns. To understand, we need to unwrap a little bit the psychology that drives humans to extreme crimes like slavery, lynching or genocide. Historian David Brion Davis has written of how it was the severance of “the ties of human identity and empathy” that made slavery possible. White men deemed black people as less than human, and just as killing animals isn’t considered murder, so too slavery could be rationalised. We see this rationalisation at work when women are stripped, paraded, killed as the village watches on — the deed is not regarded as a crime but a ‘great’ act to restore the community’s ‘honour’. Before the genocide in Rwanda, the term inyenzi or cockroach was used for Tutsi people; in Nazi Germany, Jews were labelled as untermenschen or subhumans. Such abasing imagery was methodically established through propaganda first, a process American scholar Gregory Gordon describes as “verminisation, pathologisation, demonisation, and dehumanisation”. Once this sort of brainwashing takes place, large numbers of people no longer feel remorse for crimes against targeted communities, seeing themselves rather as ‘protectors’ of communal honour or national security. Look at the body language in the video from Assam. It is one of hunting, of extermination. The attacker has no pity for the wounded, bleeding person because he has decided he isn’t worthy of it. As philosopher-lecturer David Livingstone Smith says, dehumanising helps us exclude some people from “the magic circle of moral consideration,” thus overcoming our natural revulsion against killing and wounding. We see today consistent attempts to create such a cultural universe where ideas of morality are inverted, so that murder or lynching not only become acceptable but valorous acts; not done stealthily but visibly; not hushed up but filmed and shared widely. Yet, even in this moral morass, hope still sparks. The push-back has not ceased. It was widespread public abhorrence and condemnation that led to the quick arrest of the photographer from Assam and the launch of a judicial probe. Can we keep resisting? It seems an impossible task given the magnitude of the disinformation and because we think of monsters as larger-than-life, a Pol Pot or Idi Amin. In reality, though, the worst excesses are committed by ordinary people like Bijay Baniya. And it’s ordinary people who have to actively resist the onslaught of this continuous, enervating, insidious propaganda to dehumanise — failing which we will all quite quickly be transformed into monsters ourselves. Keeping brutalisation at bay is always important, but at this juncture perhaps our very self-preservation depends upon it. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-the-crossroads/article36786743.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Gucci 100 pop-up in Delhi||The 100th anniversary celebrations of Gucci is literally a year-long affair, and almost every month has had an announcement, sometimes several, from edgy campaigns to gaming collabs. Besides popping up in historic cities and landmarks — there were presentations at two temples in Kyoto, UNESCO World Heritage sites, during the Olympics, for example — the Italian luxury house also launched an online concept store, Vault. They called it a time machine, an archive, a library, and a laboratory, and it is constantly evolving (check out vault-gucci.com). There are refurbished vintage Gucci pieces and collections by young designers like Nigerian-Indian Priya Ahluwalia. Creative director Alessandro Michele’s endless imagination doesn’t stop there, of course. Earlier this week, New Delhi’s DLF Emporio saw the Gucci 100 pop-up with iconic looks, all inspired by songs that mention the brand. Lyrics like Eric B & Rakim’s ‘Music is mine/Gucci seats reclined’ have found their way on to coats, bags and hats. And there are enough floral prints and green and red stripes in the mix. What we liked most? The ‘spin a wheel’ on the cabinet with a playlist of Guccified songs. This pop-up concept is also available online at gucci.com or on the Gucci App. And the collection is available to purchase in Delhi currently and in Mumbai from October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gucci-100-pop-up-in-delhi/article36786761.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The khadi conversation in 2021||Last Sunday, in his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke up for khadi. However, besides calling for “record-breaking sales” on October 2, he also urged listeners to buy handloom. His words reflected what many in the design community have been speaking up about. Khadi is tied in with the identity of freedom and self-sufficiency that Mahatma Gandhi wanted for Indians, but in the 21st century, being #VocalForLocal means looking beyond the trademark (KVIC, or the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, owns ‘Khadi’ and ‘Khadi India’, as a Delhi tribunal recently ruled). What we should be concentrating on is handspun and handmade. As fashion designer David Abraham, of Abraham & Thakore, says, “The cultural narrative should focus on all handmade Indian fabrics.” A statement that veteran designer Ritu Kumar echoes: “A lot of our handlooms can be a part of India’s fabric story — from Chanderi and Jamdani to Mangalgiri and Bengal handloom.” This Gandhi Jayanti, we speak with our designers about khadi and patriotism, its changing narratives, and how to showcase handloom for a new audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-khadi-conversation-in-2021/article36786801.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Juice Beauty’s Indian palette||“Clean beauty isn’t defined,” says Karen Behnke, founder of American brand Juice Beauty, the ‘OG’ of clean beauty. It made its India launch this week with e-commerce beauty retailer Boddess. Indian skin, she says, is “melanin-rich” and if skincare isn’t formulated keeping this in mind, it might not have the desired effect, or worse, end up backfiring. Behnke, who has invested in a farm to grow their own ingredients, recommends the brand’s Green Apple Exfoliant. “Fruit and glycolic acids give better exfoliation for melanin-rich Indian skin.” Read her interview with Lavanya Mohan on weekend.thehindu.com.  Juice Beauty is available on boddess.com, from Rs. 2,600 onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/juice-beautys-indian-palette/article36786765.ece
02 October 2021||James Bond:,||Talking point||Daniel Craig’s pink dinner jacket at the world premiere ofNo Time To Diereceived mixed reactions, but we think it was a refreshing change from the usual black suit. Meanwhile, the reviews of the film are favourable. The 25th film in the Bond franchise also means Craig giving up his 007 privileges. As he readies to play the lead inMacbethfor Broadway, names from Tom Hardy and Henry Cavill are being debated as his replacement. Why not afemale Bond?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36786775.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||View from the street||Street art is popping up with increasing frequency around the country. One of the more recent examples is in Bengaluru’s Malleswaram. The century-old neighbourhood now has murals by the artists’ collective, Geechugalu. The 'Malleswaram Hogona!’ project hopes to encourage people to walk and use public transport. Chennai is also sporting colour, thanks to local banner artists. They have painted the facades of places like Chennai Primary School, a cyclone shelter in Thiruvottiyur, Madhavaram roundabout and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/view-from-the-street/article36786777.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Runway diaries||Another fashion week is here. The FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week kicks off on October 5 at 8.30 pm with a digital showcase by Tarun Tahiliani. The next five days will see shows by designers such as Arpita Mehta, Shruti Sancheti, Abraham & Thakore, and Rajesh Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, for some live action in an international locale, there’s Expo 2020 Dubai. After a year’s delay (thank the pandemic), it’s back with 190 country-specific pavilions, 60 daily shows, and plenty of shopping opportunities. Till March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/runway-diaries/article36786779.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Strait talk||From ruby red pomegranates to stylised leopards, Good Earth’s Bosporus collection is inspired by the Turkish strait — that confluence of the East and West — while borrowing elements from Roman, Greek, Persian and Indian design influences. The motifs have been reimagined as hand block prints, jewel-toned embroideries, hand-drawn toiles, and opulent brocades on textiles, tableware, and décor accents. The collection will be out by the middle of this month and will be available across Good Earth stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/strait-talk/article36786781.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Capers reimagined||Ishka Farms, known for their organic capers, now has condiments on the menu. From a Kerala Hot Sauce and Caperberry Mustard to a multi-tasking Smoked Caper Sofrito (ideal with pastas, burgers, grills and pizzas) and a delicious Black Garlic Caper Spread (your next cheeseboard staple), the variety is mouth-watering. What’s more, customers will get recipe cards with each order, and the bottles come with a QR code that will take one to the recipe section on the website. Prices start from Rs. 225, on ishkafarms.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/capers-reimagined/article36786784.ece
02 October 2021||Summit One Vanderbilt:,||Instapick||New York City at your feet! That’s what the Big Apple’s latest sky-high experience will offer, when it welcomes its first visitors on October 21. An observation deck featuring glass elevators and levitation boxes (looking down on to Madison Avenue 1,063 feet below) is due to open this month at the top of One Vanderbilt, the 77-storey skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36786767.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Panels of fun||A mongoose who is a sleuth, and unearths mysteries such as glowing scorpions, flying lizards, and clever fungus. That’s what Rohan Chakravarty’s (@green_humour) new comic book has in store. Published by Penguin,Naturalist Ruddy’slaunch coincides with Wildlife Week (October 2-8). Rs. 350, penguin.co.in. Meanwhile, in Canada, JLF Toronto kicks off today. The two-day virtual event will feature writers and poets like Francesc Miralles, John Barton and Zoe Whittall. jlflitfest.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/panels-of-fun/article36786769.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating the arts||Chowdiah Memorial Hall will come alive with Indian classical dance and music on October 3 at 5 pm. It features Artists’ Introspective Movement’s 14th Bengaluru International Arts Festival 2021 (BIA). It is organised in association with Karnataka Classical Music Confederation Trust. The event includes Naada Vaibhava (a grand Carnatic Music Concert by 100 artistes), followed by a Bharathnatya, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattam, Kathakali, Odissi and Kathak recitals. The event will also be streamed live on AIM’s FB page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/celebrating-the-arts/article36786771.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping it free form||The fluid drapes of designer Ujjawal Dubey are finding their balance in Antar Agni’s first flagship store, in Delhi’s Lado Sarai. Drawing from the natural world, the space has no edges, uses eco-friendly materials, with walls that seem to flow into each other. Elsewhere, the Fendi x Rimowa collab is out, just in time to tackle all that cabin fever. Featuring black Cuoio Romano leather, brushed-on FF logo, and the German luggage maker’s signature aluminium, the cabin bags are approximately Rs. 2,43,900, on fendi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keeping-it-free-form/article36786773.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Paradise regained||The peonies are lovely this year. They are scattered on yards of green, blue and yellow — of organza, georgette and crepe. The motif is central to Ashdeen Lilaowala’s Paradise Crafted, the latest collection of Parsi gara saris, jackets and skirts. As is the lotus, and the designer’s signatures such as the crane and the butterfly. But on a quick morning call, he waxes eloquent about the peonies. “We have worked the blossom in great detail,” he says. “The shading [with multiple colours], the rendering, it’s very realistic. The petals are curled, you can see the foreground and the background, making it very dynamic.” For close to two decades, Lilaowala has been researching the legacy of the Parsis’ intricate hand embroidery. He’s brought back key motifs — like the quirkily-named Cheena Cheeni (Chinese man and woman) — and rooted the storied craft in a contemporary vocabulary (iterations of slim pants, jackets, kaftans and tops are now trousseau essentials). And now, with every collection, he hones these connections. “We are constantly trying to find new links,” shares the designer, who is simultaneously working on what he hopes will be a seminal book on Parsi gara. “We’ve re-looked at our motifs... we have a butterfly sari, where we’ve taken the insects and blown them up. But, at the same time, the rendering is so realistic that it almost looks 3D,” he shares. For this collection, he’s worked with new fabrics, too, including lace, georgette satin and raw silk. With its debut in Chennai, at a pop-up at Amethyst a couple of days ago, the collection will go up on their website soon, and will head to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Baroda in November and December. In the meantime, Instagram has Chennai locals Kavya Ramachandran, co-founder of Sukha Education Foundation, and dancer Anita Ratnam captured at Egmore Museum and Napier Bridge, in the drapes. “With every city we visit, we connect with local photographers and models. Our only brief is to put our sari in their city’s context. We also get a few of our clients to wear the saris.” Lilaowala has expanded on the ‘paradise’ theme by incorporating a “Shangrila-esque feel” through embroidery featuring mountains, waterfalls and angels. But what inspired the paradise interpretations? “Post pandemic, the morale is low. There are a lot of mixed emotions. So, while we may not be in a Utopic situation, we can lighten things up, bring in a bit of joy. Like when you wear a sari from this line.”  Priced from Rs. 1,35,000 onwards. Check out Paradise Crafted — in rich, saturated colours such as alphonso yellow, tangerine, Irish purple, Arabian green, and the like — on ashdeen.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/paradise-regained/article36786811.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Two (positive) bathroom stories||This Saturday, I will be dealing with two unrelated incidents — both connected by a bathroom — that are nothing but positive and life-affirming, but have been given an entirely negative spin by the cynical press and an increasingly intolerant social media. The first incident pertains to Janata Dal (United) leader and Bihar MLA, Gopal Mandal. It was reported that he was spotted ‘roaming around in his undergarments’ while travelling in the AC first-class compartment of the Tejas Rajdhani Express, following which co-passengers objected to the leader’s ‘behaviour’. (Mandal’s defence that he needed to use the bathroom urgently because of which he removed his kurta -pyjama fell on deaf ears.) What’s so terrible with what he’s done that’s, pardon the choice of idiom, getting everyone’s komanams in a twist? What’s he done that Milind Soman hasn’t been doing on a weekly basis? Why is it okay for Soman to run around in picturesque locations, most likely singing ‘ Made i n India, Made i n India’ , and post his rearguard action on social media to a standing ovation from an appreciative public while Mandal, attired in respectable vest and drawers with nada , is accused of being vulgar, out of control and creating a ruckus? What about the topless uncles we are subjected to from time to time? Appearing at weddings and other family dos, baring their Dunlop daddaries with impunity to the unsuspecting public? Are any of these men warning passers-by or guests that they are going to be treated to a Mylaporean version of an all-male Moulin Rouge ? No, sir. How come that’s okay but Gopal Mandal is a vulgar, bad man. Stop being so hypocritical. If Milind, mamas, and certain melas can do it with not a care in the world, so can a Mandal. The next incident I want to talk of features one Mr Murli Kamat of Andheri, who occupied two hotel rooms for a period of eight months and ‘fled’ without paying the Rs. 25 lakh-bill he’d racked up. Via the bathroom window. What a bad man! How could he? This is how the incident is being reported in all the papers. And social media has been unnecessarily cruel, too, in my opinion. Why is this being twisted into something evil and cunning when all I can see is the good? By not paying Rs. 25 lakh, Kamat saved about Rs. 5,200 per day, good money that can be put to so many better uses like building infrastructure, setting up a pakora stall, etc. This is a lesson in financial planning. Had Kamat stayed in a 5-star hotel, he’d have saved 10k per day. Please note that Kamat used the bathroom window to exit. What does that prove? That he is slim and agile. Which can only mean one thing. He is a yoga practitioner. That the gentleman gave eight months of non-stop business to the ailing hospitality sector during the lockdown cannot be ignored. He boosted the morale of the waiters, housekeeping staff, etc, by being a constant reassuring presence in their lives. What is most important, however, is how he left. Quietly, humbly, in the middle of the night. He didn’t ask for a farewell party, return gifts or for the room to be named ‘The Murli Kamat Suite’. Such modesty can only come with yoga and following our ancient culture. Murli Kamat is a true patriot. I nominate him for the Mehul Choksi Engirundaalum Vaazhga Award for 2021. And Gopal Mandal for a cover feature in GQ on body positivity. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-positive-bathroom-stories/article36786813.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||At the crossroads||It’s the age of image-making and everything is photographed or videotaped, from the innocuous to the narcissistic to the macabre. But for this, we might never have seen first-hand the posse of policemen shooting several times at a man running towards them with alathi, an armed posse that could quite easily have overpowered him by numbers alone. In the following moments, we see visuals, ironically, of the ‘embedded’ videographer stomping savagely upon the man’s fallen body. He was later identified as Bijay Baniya and arrested; the fallen man was identified by his Aadhaar card as Maynal Haque, a villager from the area in Sipajhar in Assam that was forcibly evacuated last week. When humans created society and planted the first seeds of civilisation, they formed some broad ethical and moral structures to govern themselves. After all, they imagined themselves as sapient beings of a higher order. Some deeds were set outside the social pale — killing, for instance, or torture were labelled the most reprehensible crimes, attracting severe punishments. Yet, today, at the supposed acme of civilisation, we regularly see videos of people indulging in the most horrific violence. Not so long ago, it was a bangle-seller being brutally beaten in Indore. These visuals reveal three things: first, the sense of impunity with which the crimes are committed. Second, the public nature of the barbarism, with no disgrace or shame attached to it. And third, the absence of horror in large segments of viewers, many often applauding the deeds. Both perpetrators and purveyors exist then in a universe that is seemingly outside civilisational boundaries. How did we get here? After all, we are widely considered a spiritual nation; with Gandhi’s help we even threw out the powerful British using non-violence, not guns. To understand, we need to unwrap a little bit the psychology that drives humans to extreme crimes like slavery, lynching or genocide. Historian David Brion Davis has written of how it was the severance of “the ties of human identity and empathy” that made slavery possible. White men deemed black people as less than human, and just as killing animals isn’t considered murder, so too slavery could be rationalised. We see this rationalisation at work when women are stripped, paraded, killed as the village watches on — the deed is not regarded as a crime but a ‘great’ act to restore the community’s ‘honour’. Before the genocide in Rwanda, the term inyenzi or cockroach was used for Tutsi people; in Nazi Germany, Jews were labelled as untermenschen or subhumans. Such abasing imagery was methodically established through propaganda first, a process American scholar Gregory Gordon describes as “verminisation, pathologisation, demonisation, and dehumanisation”. Once this sort of brainwashing takes place, large numbers of people no longer feel remorse for crimes against targeted communities, seeing themselves rather as ‘protectors’ of communal honour or national security. Look at the body language in the video from Assam. It is one of hunting, of extermination. The attacker has no pity for the wounded, bleeding person because he has decided he isn’t worthy of it. As philosopher-lecturer David Livingstone Smith says, dehumanising helps us exclude some people from “the magic circle of moral consideration,” thus overcoming our natural revulsion against killing and wounding. We see today consistent attempts to create such a cultural universe where ideas of morality are inverted, so that murder or lynching not only become acceptable but valorous acts; not done stealthily but visibly; not hushed up but filmed and shared widely. Yet, even in this moral morass, hope still sparks. The push-back has not ceased. It was widespread public abhorrence and condemnation that led to the quick arrest of the photographer from Assam and the launch of a judicial probe. Can we keep resisting? It seems an impossible task given the magnitude of the disinformation and because we think of monsters as larger-than-life, a Pol Pot or Idi Amin. In reality, though, the worst excesses are committed by ordinary people like Bijay Baniya. And it’s ordinary people who have to actively resist the onslaught of this continuous, enervating, insidious propaganda to dehumanise — failing which we will all quite quickly be transformed into monsters ourselves. Keeping brutalisation at bay is always important, but at this juncture perhaps our very self-preservation depends upon it. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-the-crossroads/article36786810.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashoka, not a nice guy?||Ravi Shankar Etteth’s The Return of The Brahmin (Westland), like its predecessor The Brahmin (2018), is a historical thriller. However, calling it just that would mean not acknowledging the vast storyscape Etteth creates for his main characters — all of whom have grown in age and stature since the first book. For the generations used to reading about India’s kings and emperors from popular comics, where they were distinctly white or black, this series shows what might have possibly been. In the process, the author also imagines how a king who perhaps did not show kindness or remorse is still revered centuries later. Food and drink occupy an important role in the proceedings, and Etteth laughs when you mention that. Think medaka or rice beer, barley bread and butter, palm liquor, and the pork soup (believed to have been invented by the Buddha) that was “made from the flesh of succulent piglets cooked with butter and parsley, and a sprinkling of ginger and spring onions”. This series is pacy and teems with a certain grandness, much like Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s films, as a reviewer for this paper wrote about The Brahmin . That makes it eminently adaptable as a web or OTT series — possibly why media company Endemol has optioned it.  Excerpts from an interview:   Why did you choose to write about Ashoka?   His benevolent unblemished personality intrigued me. There are good kings and bad kings, but there are no nice kings. You can’t be both nice and ruthless. Ashoka was ruthless, who killed 99 siblings and burned the crown Prince in a flaming moat. He built the beautiful Palace of Hell in Pataliputra run by the torturer Chandagirika where Ashoka’s victims, including his concubines who didn’t like his skin texture, were tortured to death. His favourite pastime was feeding people to crocodiles. So, it is difficult to fathom that he turned into a gentle Buddhist and shunned war seeing 10,000 Kalinga soldiers lying dead on the battlefield. In fact, he committed genocide of the aajivikas after he became a Buddhist. I was keen to explore how such a ruler could have tricked everyone into thinking that he had changed. Did he really? Ashoka was a disruptor, and he balanced Hinduism and Buddhism to retain supreme power.  Priced at Rs. 277 The Return of The Brahmin is available on amazon.in   Read the full interview on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ashoka-not-a-nice-guy/article36786808.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Gucci 100 pop-up in Delhi||The 100th anniversary celebrations of Gucci is literally a year-long affair, and almost every month has had an announcement, sometimes several, from edgy campaigns to gaming collabs. Besides popping up in historic cities and landmarks — there were presentations at two temples in Kyoto, UNESCO World Heritage sites, during the Olympics, for example — the Italian luxury house also launched an online concept store, Vault. They called it a time machine, an archive, a library, and a laboratory, and it is constantly evolving (check out vault-gucci.com). There are refurbished vintage Gucci pieces and collections by young designers like Nigerian-Indian Priya Ahluwalia. Creative director Alessandro Michele’s endless imagination doesn’t stop there, of course. Earlier this week, New Delhi’s DLF Emporio saw the Gucci 100 pop-up with iconic looks, all inspired by songs that mention the brand. Lyrics like Eric B & Rakim’s ‘Music is mine/Gucci seats reclined’ have found their way on to coats, bags and hats. And there are enough floral prints and green and red stripes in the mix. What we liked most? The ‘spin a wheel’ on the cabinet with a playlist of Guccified songs. This pop-up concept is also available online at gucci.com or on the Gucci App. And the collection is available to purchase in Delhi currently and in Mumbai from October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gucci-100-pop-up-in-delhi/article36786812.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The khadi conversation in 2021||Last Sunday, in his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke up for khadi. However, besides calling for “record-breaking sales” on October 2, he also urged listeners to buy handloom. His words reflected what many in the design community have been speaking up about. Khadi is tied in with the identity of freedom and self-sufficiency that Mahatma Gandhi wanted for Indians, but in the 21st century, being #VocalForLocal means looking beyond the trademark (KVIC, or the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, owns ‘Khadi’ and ‘Khadi India’, as a Delhi tribunal recently ruled). What we should be concentrating on is handspun and handmade. As fashion designer David Abraham, of Abraham & Thakore, says, “The cultural narrative should focus on all handmade Indian fabrics.” A statement that veteran designer Ritu Kumar echoes: “A lot of our handlooms can be a part of India’s fabric story — from Chanderi and Jamdani to Mangalgiri and Bengal handloom.” This Gandhi Jayanti, we speak with our designers about khadi and patriotism, its changing narratives, and how to showcase handloom for a new audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-khadi-conversation-in-2021/article36786826.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Juice Beauty’s Indian palette||“Clean beauty isn’t defined,” says Karen Behnke, founder of American brand Juice Beauty, the ‘OG’ of clean beauty. It made its India launch this week with e-commerce beauty retailer Boddess. Indian skin, she says, is “melanin-rich” and if skincare isn’t formulated keeping this in mind, it might not have the desired effect, or worse, end up backfiring. Behnke, who has invested in a farm to grow their own ingredients, recommends the brand’s Green Apple Exfoliant. “Fruit and glycolic acids give better exfoliation for melanin-rich Indian skin.” Read her interview with Lavanya Mohan on weekend.thehindu.com.  Juice Beauty is available on boddess.com, from Rs. 2,600 onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/juice-beautys-indian-palette/article36786814.ece
02 October 2021||Summit One Vanderbilt:,||Instapick||New York City at your feet! That’s what the Big Apple’s latest sky-high experience will offer, when it welcomes its first visitors on October 21. An observation deck featuring glass elevators and levitation boxes (looking down on to Madison Avenue 1,063 feet below) is due to open this month at the top of One Vanderbilt, the 77-storey skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36786815.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Panels of fun||A mongoose who is a sleuth, and unearths mysteries such as glowing scorpions, flying lizards, and clever fungus. That’s what Rohan Chakravarty’s (@green_humour) new comic book has in store. Published by Penguin,Naturalist Ruddy’slaunch coincides with Wildlife Week (October 2-8). Rs. 350, penguin.co.in. Meanwhile, in Canada, JLF Toronto kicks off today. The two-day virtual event will feature writers and poets like Francesc Miralles, John Barton and Zoe Whittall. jlflitfest.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/panels-of-fun/article36786816.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, up close||Tirunelveli-based painter Koilpitchai Prabhakar has been documenting his “native place” for the past two years. “My works are not mere landscapes, but stand testimony to the soul of the people,” he says. CatchManmanam, an exhibition of his works, at DakshinaChitra. Till October 17. In the city, SoCo at The Savera is back, and on SundayComedy Killadees, a Tamil stand-up show with comics Abishek Kumar, Syama Harini, Yogesh Jagannathan, and Chockalingam, promises to have you in splits. Rs. 299 onwards. At 4.30 pm and 7 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/life-up-close/article36786818.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping it free form||The fluid drapes of designer Ujjawal Dubey are finding their balance in Antar Agni’s first flagship store, in Delhi’s Lado Sarai. Drawing from the natural world, the space has no edges, uses eco-friendly materials, with walls that seem to flow into each other. Elsewhere, the Fendi x Rimowa collab is out, just in time to tackle all that cabin fever. Featuring black Cuoio Romano leather, brushed-on FF logo, and the German luggage maker’s signature aluminium, the cabin bags are approximately Rs. 2,43,900, on fendi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keeping-it-free-form/article36786819.ece
02 October 2021||James Bond:,||Talking point||Daniel Craig’s pink dinner jacket at the world premiere ofNo Time To Diereceived mixed reactions, but we think it was a refreshing change from the usual black suit. Meanwhile, the reviews of the film are favourable. The 25th film in the Bond franchise also means Craig giving up his 007 privileges. As he readies to play the lead inMacbethfor Broadway, names from Tom Hardy and Henry Cavill are being debated as his replacement. Why not afemale Bond?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36786820.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||View from the street||Street art is popping up with increasing frequency around the country. One of the more recent examples is in Bengaluru’s Malleswaram. The century-old neighbourhood now has murals by the artists’ collective, Geechugalu. The 'Malleswaram Hogona!’ project hopes to encourage people to walk and use public transport. Chennai is also sporting colour, thanks to local banner artists. They have painted the facades of places like Chennai Primary School, a cyclone shelter in Thiruvottiyur, Madhavaram roundabout and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/view-from-the-street/article36786821.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Runway diaries||Another fashion week is here. The FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week kicks off on October 5 at 8.30 pm with a digital showcase by Tarun Tahiliani. The next five days will see shows by designers such as Arpita Mehta, Shruti Sancheti, Abraham & Thakore, and Rajesh Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, for some live action in an international locale, there’s Expo 2020 Dubai. After a year’s delay (thank the pandemic), it’s back with 190 country-specific pavilions, 60 daily shows, and plenty of shopping opportunities. Till March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/runway-diaries/article36786822.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Strait talk||From ruby red pomegranates to stylised leopards, Good Earth’s Bosporus collection is inspired by the Turkish strait — that confluence of the East and West — while borrowing elements from Roman, Greek, Persian and Indian design influences. The motifs have been reimagined as hand block prints, jewel-toned embroideries, hand-drawn toiles, and opulent brocades on textiles, tableware, and décor accents. The collection will be out by the middle of this month and will be available across Good Earth stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/strait-talk/article36786823.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Capers reimagined||Ishka Farms, known for their organic capers, now has condiments on the menu. From a Kerala Hot Sauce and Caperberry Mustard to a multi-tasking Smoked Caper Sofrito (ideal with pastas, burgers, grills and pizzas) and a delicious Black Garlic Caper Spread (your next cheeseboard staple), the variety is mouth-watering. What’s more, customers will get recipe cards with each order, and the bottles come with a QR code that will take one to the recipe section on the website. Prices start from Rs. 225, on ishkafarms.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/capers-reimagined/article36786824.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Paradise regained||The peonies are lovely this year. They are scattered on yards of green, blue and yellow — of organza, georgette and crepe. The motif is central to Ashdeen Lilaowala’s Paradise Crafted, the latest collection of Parsi gara saris, jackets and skirts. As is the lotus, and the designer’s signatures such as the crane and the butterfly. But on a quick morning call, he waxes eloquent about the peonies. “We have worked the blossom in great detail,” he says. “The shading [with multiple colours], the rendering, it’s very realistic. The petals are curled, you can see the foreground and the background, making it very dynamic.” For close to two decades, Lilaowala has been researching the legacy of the Parsis’ intricate hand embroidery. He’s brought back key motifs — like the quirkily-named Cheena Cheeni (Chinese man and woman) — and rooted the storied craft in a contemporary vocabulary (iterations of slim pants, jackets, kaftans and tops are now trousseau essentials). And now, with every collection, he hones these connections. “We are constantly trying to find new links,” shares the designer, who is simultaneously working on what he hopes will be a seminal book on Parsi gara. “We’ve re-looked at our motifs... we have a butterfly sari, where we’ve taken the insects and blown them up. But, at the same time, the rendering is so realistic that it almost looks 3D,” he shares. For this collection, he’s worked with new fabrics, too, including lace, georgette satin and raw silk. With its debut in Chennai, at a pop-up at Amethyst a couple of days ago, the collection will go up on their website soon, and will head to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Baroda in November and December. In the meantime, Instagram has Chennai locals Kavya Ramachandran, co-founder of Sukha Education Foundation, and dancer Anita Ratnam captured at Egmore Museum and Napier Bridge, in the drapes. “With every city we visit, we connect with local photographers and models. Our only brief is to put our sari in their city’s context. We also get a few of our clients to wear the saris.” Lilaowala has expanded on the ‘paradise’ theme by incorporating a “Shangrila-esque feel” through embroidery featuring mountains, waterfalls and angels. But what inspired the paradise interpretations? “Post pandemic, the morale is low. There are a lot of mixed emotions. So, while we may not be in a Utopic situation, we can lighten things up, bring in a bit of joy. Like when you wear a sari from this line.”  Priced from Rs. 1,35,000 onwards. Check out Paradise Crafted — in rich, saturated colours such as alphonso yellow, tangerine, Irish purple, Arabian green, and the like — on ashdeen.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/paradise-regained/article36786833.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Two (positive) bathroom stories||This Saturday, I will be dealing with two unrelated incidents — both connected by a bathroom — that are nothing but positive and life-affirming, but have been given an entirely negative spin by the cynical press and an increasingly intolerant social media. The first incident pertains to Janata Dal (United) leader and Bihar MLA, Gopal Mandal. It was reported that he was spotted ‘roaming around in his undergarments’ while travelling in the AC first-class compartment of the Tejas Rajdhani Express, following which co-passengers objected to the leader’s ‘behaviour’. (Mandal’s defence that he needed to use the bathroom urgently because of which he removed his kurta -pyjama fell on deaf ears.) What’s so terrible with what he’s done that’s, pardon the choice of idiom, getting everyone’s komanams in a twist? What’s he done that Milind Soman hasn’t been doing on a weekly basis? Why is it okay for Soman to run around in picturesque locations, most likely singing ‘ Made i n India, Made i n India’ , and post his rearguard action on social media to a standing ovation from an appreciative public while Mandal, attired in respectable vest and drawers with nada , is accused of being vulgar, out of control and creating a ruckus? What about the topless uncles we are subjected to from time to time? Appearing at weddings and other family dos, baring their Dunlop daddaries with impunity to the unsuspecting public? Are any of these men warning passers-by or guests that they are going to be treated to a Mylaporean version of an all-male Moulin Rouge ? No, sir. How come that’s okay but Gopal Mandal is a vulgar, bad man. Stop being so hypocritical. If Milind, mamas, and certain melas can do it with not a care in the world, so can a Mandal. The next incident I want to talk of features one Mr Murli Kamat of Andheri, who occupied two hotel rooms for a period of eight months and ‘fled’ without paying the Rs. 25 lakh-bill he’d racked up. Via the bathroom window. What a bad man! How could he? This is how the incident is being reported in all the papers. And social media has been unnecessarily cruel, too, in my opinion. Why is this being twisted into something evil and cunning when all I can see is the good? By not paying Rs. 25 lakh, Kamat saved about Rs. 5,200 per day, good money that can be put to so many better uses like building infrastructure, setting up a pakora stall, etc. This is a lesson in financial planning. Had Kamat stayed in a 5-star hotel, he’d have saved 10k per day. Please note that Kamat used the bathroom window to exit. What does that prove? That he is slim and agile. Which can only mean one thing. He is a yoga practitioner. That the gentleman gave eight months of non-stop business to the ailing hospitality sector during the lockdown cannot be ignored. He boosted the morale of the waiters, housekeeping staff, etc, by being a constant reassuring presence in their lives. What is most important, however, is how he left. Quietly, humbly, in the middle of the night. He didn’t ask for a farewell party, return gifts or for the room to be named ‘The Murli Kamat Suite’. Such modesty can only come with yoga and following our ancient culture. Murli Kamat is a true patriot. I nominate him for the Mehul Choksi Engirundaalum Vaazhga Award for 2021. And Gopal Mandal for a cover feature in GQ on body positivity. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-positive-bathroom-stories/article36786835.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||At the crossroads||It’s the age of image-making and everything is photographed or videotaped, from the innocuous to the narcissistic to the macabre. But for this, we might never have seen first-hand the posse of policemen shooting several times at a man running towards them with alathi, an armed posse that could quite easily have overpowered him by numbers alone. In the following moments, we see visuals, ironically, of the ‘embedded’ videographer stomping savagely upon the man’s fallen body. He was later identified as Bijay Baniya and arrested; the fallen man was identified by his Aadhaar card as Maynal Haque, a villager from the area in Sipajhar in Assam that was forcibly evacuated last week. When humans created society and planted the first seeds of civilisation, they formed some broad ethical and moral structures to govern themselves. After all, they imagined themselves as sapient beings of a higher order. Some deeds were set outside the social pale — killing, for instance, or torture were labelled the most reprehensible crimes, attracting severe punishments. Yet, today, at the supposed acme of civilisation, we regularly see videos of people indulging in the most horrific violence. Not so long ago, it was a bangle-seller being brutally beaten in Indore. These visuals reveal three things: first, the sense of impunity with which the crimes are committed. Second, the public nature of the barbarism, with no disgrace or shame attached to it. And third, the absence of horror in large segments of viewers, many often applauding the deeds. Both perpetrators and purveyors exist then in a universe that is seemingly outside civilisational boundaries. How did we get here? After all, we are widely considered a spiritual nation; with Gandhi’s help we even threw out the powerful British using non-violence, not guns. To understand, we need to unwrap a little bit the psychology that drives humans to extreme crimes like slavery, lynching or genocide. Historian David Brion Davis has written of how it was the severance of “the ties of human identity and empathy” that made slavery possible. White men deemed black people as less than human, and just as killing animals isn’t considered murder, so too slavery could be rationalised. We see this rationalisation at work when women are stripped, paraded, killed as the village watches on — the deed is not regarded as a crime but a ‘great’ act to restore the community’s ‘honour’. Before the genocide in Rwanda, the term inyenzi or cockroach was used for Tutsi people; in Nazi Germany, Jews were labelled as untermenschen or subhumans. Such abasing imagery was methodically established through propaganda first, a process American scholar Gregory Gordon describes as “verminisation, pathologisation, demonisation, and dehumanisation”. Once this sort of brainwashing takes place, large numbers of people no longer feel remorse for crimes against targeted communities, seeing themselves rather as ‘protectors’ of communal honour or national security. Look at the body language in the video from Assam. It is one of hunting, of extermination. The attacker has no pity for the wounded, bleeding person because he has decided he isn’t worthy of it. As philosopher-lecturer David Livingstone Smith says, dehumanising helps us exclude some people from “the magic circle of moral consideration,” thus overcoming our natural revulsion against killing and wounding. We see today consistent attempts to create such a cultural universe where ideas of morality are inverted, so that murder or lynching not only become acceptable but valorous acts; not done stealthily but visibly; not hushed up but filmed and shared widely. Yet, even in this moral morass, hope still sparks. The push-back has not ceased. It was widespread public abhorrence and condemnation that led to the quick arrest of the photographer from Assam and the launch of a judicial probe. Can we keep resisting? It seems an impossible task given the magnitude of the disinformation and because we think of monsters as larger-than-life, a Pol Pot or Idi Amin. In reality, though, the worst excesses are committed by ordinary people like Bijay Baniya. And it’s ordinary people who have to actively resist the onslaught of this continuous, enervating, insidious propaganda to dehumanise — failing which we will all quite quickly be transformed into monsters ourselves. Keeping brutalisation at bay is always important, but at this juncture perhaps our very self-preservation depends upon it. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-the-crossroads/article36786831.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashoka, not a nice guy?||Ravi Shankar Etteth’s The Return of The Brahmin (Westland), like its predecessor The Brahmin (2018), is a historical thriller. However, calling it just that would mean not acknowledging the vast storyscape Etteth creates for his main characters — all of whom have grown in age and stature since the first book. For the generations used to reading about India’s kings and emperors from popular comics, where they were distinctly white or black, this series shows what might have possibly been. In the process, the author also imagines how a king who perhaps did not show kindness or remorse is still revered centuries later. Food and drink occupy an important role in the proceedings, and Etteth laughs when you mention that. Think medaka or rice beer, barley bread and butter, palm liquor, and the pork soup (believed to have been invented by the Buddha) that was “made from the flesh of succulent piglets cooked with butter and parsley, and a sprinkling of ginger and spring onions”. This series is pacy and teems with a certain grandness, much like Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s films, as a reviewer for this paper wrote about The Brahmin . That makes it eminently adaptable as a web or OTT series — possibly why media company Endemol has optioned it. Excerpts from an interview:   Why did you choose to write about Ashoka?  His benevolent, unblemished personality intrigued me. There are good kings and bad kings, but there are no nice kings. You can’t be both nice and ruthless. Ashoka was ruthless, who killed 99 siblings and burned the crown prince in a flaming moat. He built the beautiful Palace of Hell in Pataliputra run by the torturer Chandagirika where Ashoka’s victims, including his concubines who didn’t like his skin texture, were tortured to death. His favourite pastime was feeding people to crocodiles. So, it is difficult to fathom that he turned into a gentle Buddhist and shunned war after seeing 10,000 Kalinga soldiers lying dead on the battlefield. In fact, he committed genocide of the aajivikas after he became a Buddhist. I was keen to explore how such a ruler could have tricked everyone into thinking that he had changed.  The language is contemporary, and the relationships, even between Ashoka and the Brahmin, have a certain tone of informality. Was this intentional?  The relationship between Ashoka and the Brahmin has already been established in the first book. They are brothers and comrades even though Ashoka is the king, and this is something the Brahmin is conscious about. As for keeping the narrative style contemporary, it’s because I believe a book and its story must be accessible. We are creatures of our time and it does not make sense to use archaic language. Today’s historians like Wendy Doniger, William Dalrymple, Walter Isaacson, etc, adopt a narrative form that makes it easily relatable.  How important are facts when there is a certain element of re-imagination?  Facts form the endoskeleton of historical writing. That said, many aspects of some ancient empires are not documented thoroughly. Since it was all such a long time ago, the writer has to combine conjecture with history. But you cannot tamper with facts. You can say that rice, wheat and maize were cultivated in Magadha, but not poppy. I did take some liberties with the fashion and food.  Priced at Rs. 277, The Return of The Brahmin is available on amazon.in. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ashoka-not-a-nice-guy/article36786830.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Gucci 100 pop-up in Delhi||The 100th anniversary celebrations of Gucci is literally a year-long affair, and almost every month has had an announcement, sometimes several, from edgy campaigns to gaming collabs. Besides popping up in historic cities and landmarks — there were presentations at two temples in Kyoto, UNESCO World Heritage sites, during the Olympics, for example — the Italian luxury house also launched an online concept store, Vault. They called it a time machine, an archive, a library, and a laboratory, and it is constantly evolving (check out vault-gucci.com). There are refurbished vintage Gucci pieces and collections by young designers like Nigerian-Indian Priya Ahluwalia. Creative director Alessandro Michele’s endless imagination doesn’t stop there, of course. Earlier this week, New Delhi’s DLF Emporio saw the Gucci 100 pop-up with iconic looks, all inspired by songs that mention the brand. Lyrics like Eric B & Rakim’s ‘Music is mine/Gucci seats reclined’ have found their way on to coats, bags and hats. And there are enough floral prints and green and red stripes in the mix. What we liked most? The ‘spin a wheel’ on the cabinet with a playlist of Guccified songs. This pop-up concept is also available online at gucci.com or on the Gucci App. And the collection is available to purchase in Delhi currently and in Mumbai from October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gucci-100-pop-up-in-delhi/article36786834.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The khadi conversation in 2021||Last Sunday, in his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke up for khadi. However, besides calling for “record-breaking sales” on October 2, he also urged listeners to buy handloom. His words reflected what many in the design community have been speaking up about. Khadi is tied in with the identity of freedom and self-sufficiency that Mahatma Gandhi wanted for Indians, but in the 21st century, being #VocalForLocal means looking beyond the trademark (KVIC, or the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, owns ‘Khadi’ and ‘Khadi India’, as a Delhi tribunal recently ruled). What we should be concentrating on is handspun and handmade. As fashion designer David Abraham, of Abraham & Thakore, says, “The cultural narrative should focus on all handmade Indian fabrics.” A statement that veteran designer Ritu Kumar echoes: “A lot of our handlooms can be a part of India’s fabric story — from Chanderi and Jamdani to Mangalgiri and Bengal handloom.” This Gandhi Jayanti, we speak with our designers about khadi and patriotism, its changing narratives, and how to showcase handloom for a new audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-khadi-conversation-in-2021/article36786852.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Juice Beauty’s Indian palette||“Clean beauty isn’t defined,” says Karen Behnke, founder of American brand Juice Beauty, the ‘OG’ of clean beauty. It made its India launch this week with e-commerce beauty retailer Boddess. Indian skin, she says, is “melanin-rich” and if skincare isn’t formulated keeping this in mind, it might not have the desired effect, or worse, end up backfiring. Behnke, who has invested in a farm to grow their own ingredients, recommends the brand’s Green Apple Exfoliant. “Fruit and glycolic acids give better exfoliation for melanin-rich Indian skin.” Read her interview with Lavanya Mohan on weekend.thehindu.com.  Juice Beauty is available on boddess.com, from Rs. 2,600 onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/juice-beautys-indian-palette/article36786836.ece
02 October 2021||Summit One Vanderbilt:,||Instapick||New York City at your feet! That’s what the Big Apple’s latest sky-high experience will offer, when it welcomes its first visitors on October 21. An observation deck featuring glass elevators and levitation boxes (looking down on to Madison Avenue 1,063 feet below) is due to open this month at the top of One Vanderbilt, the 77-storey skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36786837.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Panels of fun||A mongoose who is a sleuth, and unearths mysteries such as glowing scorpions, flying lizards, and clever fungus. That’s what Rohan Chakravarty’s (@green_humour) new comic book has in store. Published by Penguin,Naturalist Ruddy’slaunch coincides with Wildlife Week (October 2-8). Rs. 350, penguin.co.in. Meanwhile, in Canada, JLF Toronto kicks off today. The two-day virtual event will feature writers and poets like Francesc Miralles, John Barton and Zoe Whittall. jlflitfest.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/panels-of-fun/article36786838.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping it free form||The fluid drapes of designer Ujjawal Dubey are finding their balance in Antar Agni’s first flagship store, in Delhi’s Lado Sarai. Drawing from the natural world, the space has no edges, uses eco-friendly materials, with walls that seem to flow into each other. Elsewhere, the Fendi x Rimowa collab is out, just in time to tackle all that cabin fever. Featuring black Cuoio Romano leather, brushed-on FF logo, and the German luggage maker’s signature aluminium, the cabin bags are approximately Rs. 2,43,900, on fendi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keeping-it-free-form/article36786839.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Woke play||Samahaara Theatre group presents Diana Son's ‘Stop Kiss’. The English play directed and adapted by Pallavi Verma and produced by Rathna Shekar Reddy presents a love story tackling a hard-hitting subjects through intellectually stimulating writing. The play explores multiple layers like same-sex relationships, brutality of haters, choices and he lack thereof. The 1 hour 20 minutes long play is on October 2 and 3 @ Phoenix Arena, Hyderabad. Details and tickets of Rs. 250 available on www.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/woke-play/article36786841.ece
02 October 2021||James Bond:,||Talking point||Daniel Craig’s pink dinner jacket at the world premiere ofNo Time To Diereceived mixed reactions, but we think it was a refreshing change from the usual black suit. Meanwhile, the reviews of the film are favourable. The 25th film in the Bond franchise also means Craig giving up his 007 privileges. As he readies to play the lead inMacbethfor Broadway, names from Tom Hardy and Henry Cavill are being debated as his replacement. Why not afemale Bond?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36786842.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Gourmet fare at cinemas||Going to the movies got tastier as multiplex chain INOX partners with ITC’s ready-to-eat, gourmet brand Kitchens of India to introduce Indian home-style options to INOX customers, whether ordering at cinemas, or from their homes through food-ordering apps. On the menu are dishes including Vegetable Pulao, Hyderabadi Vegetable Biryani, Dal Makhani, Rajma Masala, Pindi Chana and Steamed Basmati Rice, all served in premium spill and leak-proof packaging, in a safe hygienic manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gourmet-fare-at-cinemas/article36786844.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Runway diaries||Another fashion week is here. The FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week kicks off on October 5 at 8.30 pm with a digital showcase by Tarun Tahiliani. The next five days will see shows by designers such as Arpita Mehta, Shruti Sancheti, Abraham & Thakore, and Rajesh Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, for some live action in an international locale, there’s Expo 2020 Dubai. After a year’s delay (thank the pandemic), it’s back with 190 country-specific pavilions, 60 daily shows, and plenty of shopping opportunities. Till March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/runway-diaries/article36786845.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Strait talk||From ruby red pomegranates to stylised leopards, Good Earth’s Bosporus collection is inspired by the Turkish strait — that confluence of the East and West — while borrowing elements from Roman, Greek, Persian and Indian design influences. The motifs have been reimagined as hand block prints, jewel-toned embroideries, hand-drawn toiles, and opulent brocades on textiles, tableware, and décor accents. The collection will be out by the middle of this month and will be available across Good Earth stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/strait-talk/article36786846.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Capers reimagined||Ishka Farms, known for their organic capers, now has condiments on the menu. From a Kerala Hot Sauce and Caperberry Mustard to a multi-tasking Smoked Caper Sofrito (ideal with pastas, burgers, grills and pizzas) and a delicious Black Garlic Caper Spread (your next cheeseboard staple), the variety is mouth-watering. What’s more, customers will get recipe cards with each order, and the bottles come with a QR code that will take one to the recipe section on the website. Prices start from Rs. 225, on ishkafarms.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/capers-reimagined/article36786847.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A forest trail at Malabar Hill||Think of Mumbai and what comes to mind? Traffic, skyscrapers, local trains and perhaps the beaches. But its posh Malabar Hill locality will soon be home to an altogether more verdant experience: the Malabar Hill Forest Trail, an elevated walkway. An initiative by the Malabar Hill Citizens’ Forum and the Nepean Sea Road Citizens’ Forum, an approximately Rs. 10 crore project, is being designed by IMK Architects. “Over the past six decades, our firm has worked on projects across various typologies such as residential, commercial, healthcare, educational, self-redevelopment projects, urban planning, and townships. In terms of urban design, we have largely worked on projects that involve the improvisation of infrastructure like footpaths, parks, etc. The forest trail project is particularly different because it is a very simple intervention that connects citizens to 12 acres of forgotten forest land,” says Rahul Kadri, partner and principal architect at IMK Architects. At present, tenders are being invited and Kadri aims to complete the project in 9-12 months. Excerpts from an interview: Why was it decided to create this elevated walkway at Malabar Hill? The Malabar Hill Forest is a roughly 12-acre green pocket of land in the midst of Mumbai’s densely populated urban landscape. It is home to a diverse mix of flora and fauna — from trees like gulmohar, wild almond, copperpod, mango, coconut, raintree, jamun, and jackfruit, to several species of birds such as the rose-ringed parakeet, hornbill, coppersmith and brown-headed barbets, magpie-robin, golden oriole, and peafowl, as well as snakes such as the Indian cobra. Always popular with joggers, athletes, nature-lovers, and leisure seekers from the affluent Malabar Hill neighbourhood, the forest today seems to be falling into disrepair and neglect. Structures spread through the forest, including a stairwell and a greenhouse, as well as older access steps, trails, fences and guardrails are worn down or broken; open drains lead into the forest and form cesspools, breeding mosquitoes; garbage and construction waste are routinely dumped along the trails; and the forest is coming under increasing threat of encroachment by slums. The hillock’s subsoil has also started to give way due to constant erosion, exacerbated by storm water runoff along the steep slopes due to the lack of drainage. Further, the area is increasingly becoming an avenue for antisocial activities such as illicit liquor brewing. The Malabar Hill Forest Trail, thus, arises from the urgent need to preserve and restore the forest’s rich ecosystem, while creating a new, sustainable interface between nature and the city. Why do you think such projects are important for Indian cities? The forest trail is an attempt to enable people to responsibly experience an old, urban forest. Such projects are crucial as our cities lack spaces where citizens can intimately interact and get acquainted with nature. The project is also a novel way to catalyse the preservation and restoration of often neglected and degrading urban forests that are increasingly prey to unchecked development. The project’s conceptualisation has been in the works for a year. Please take us through its design journey. Our vision for the forest trail is to protect this last 12-acre pocket of tropical forest in the middle of the city and restore its ecological balance by bringing back native plant species that have been lost over time while helping the forest thrive. The overarching idea of the elevated walkway is to get people to visit, understand and be a part of the ecosystem, while causing minimum disturbance. We initially came up with three design options — one on-ground, one above-ground, and a third one that was a hybrid of both. But we realised that keeping it on-ground would lead to people encroaching into the forest, which could disturb the flora and fauna, so we finally decided on a completely elevated walkway. The trail is set to be built without destroying a single tree. Do elaborate. We have conceptualised a raised wooden walkway with a central spine of epoxy-coated, steel structural support to keep the intervention’s impact on the forest floor to a minimum. An extensive soil investigation will help determine the design of the foundation and these supports. Our design takes into consideration the width of the trail, its sectional design, lighting, and materials that blend in with the habitat. Lighting will be minimised to ensure that the forest is protected against light pollution. The design will also address important ecological and hydrological concerns — it will avoid blocking the flow of natural water, reduce interference with existing root systems, and prevent disturbance to the movement and habitats of wildlife. The walkway itself, and its railings, will be constructed in weathered wood to merge with the forest’s natural hues. How do you plan to keep the walkway interactive and accessible for visitors? The city has several skywalks, but there are no elevated leisure walkways. Surrounded by nature and the sounds of chirping birds, the trail will create a safe haven for pedestrians amidst the bustling city. The trail will be approximately 705m long with an average width of 1.5m, and it will be at a minimum height of 2m from the forest floor. The height will vary according to the slope of the ground, raised up to as much as 10m in places. The trail will be interspersed with viewing decks, benches, and glass-bottom look-out zones at points where the walkway becomes wider. For example, the trail will extend to 3.6m at points with viewing decks, and to 5.4m at the glass bottom look-out zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-forest-trail-at-malabar-hill/article36786859.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking India’s warehousing boom||Over the last few years, e-commerce has been at the forefront for not only being the main sector for receiving institutional capital, but it is also seen as a prime influencer in resetting India’s supply economics and delivery dynamics. The year 2020, marked with the adversity of COVID-19, influenced an increased dependence to e-commerce online delivery solutions and accelerated the trend of online purchase. This has further propelled the growth of the sector in the country, and with this exponential growth came the requirement for stocking inventory. Thus paving the way for the requirement of warehousing and logistics solutions across the country. The warehousing asset class — which is instrumental for the efficient management of e-commerce supply-chains — has been a primary beneficiary of the pandemic-infused online shopping boom. Supply chain operations have seen a significant re-modelling in the times of the pandemic. To mitigate the contingency of the supply chain disruptions, warehousing occupiers are seen increasing the stock inventory levels. In order to ensure quicker delivery the e-commerce companies were seen to be the biggest contributors to the warehousing volume traction in FY’21. The e-commerce dominance is also quantified by the sector’s share in warehousing transactional volume growing from 18% in FY 2017 to 31% in FY 2021 in India. Overall, the annual warehousing transactions will grow at a CAGR of 19% to 7.08 million sq.m. (76.2 million sq.ft.) in FY 2026 from 2.95 million sq.m. (31.7 million sq.ft.) in FY 2021. These are the key trends to track: Need for automation Owing to higher service delivery requirements, e-commerce has been an early adopter of technology in supply chain operations. This has also induced the need for automation in the warehousing operability, which will also result in occupiers considering implementation of technology at the design stage instead of retrofitting as was seen in earlier times. Usage of bigger cargo boxes The rise of  sophisticated e-commerce and 3PL occupier groups have led to use of large boxes to ensure larger movement of cargo. In several instances now, the scale of a single warehouse box has been seen to increase from under 1,00,000 sq.ft. to over 5,00,000 sq.ft. over the last few years. In-city demand The necessity of reduced delivery timelines by e-commerce players has led to the emergence of in-city warehousing in the Indian market. Besides facilitating optimum land utilisation in congested cities such as Mumbai, multi-storey warehousing will effectively reduce delivery timelines and transportation costs. Such solutions are already in place in other Asian markets such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Tokyo. 3PL players have been scouting for in-city development opportunities across Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. The high real estate costs in these cities make it a challenging venture and turn key opportunities such as defunct mills, factory units or shuttered malls are being considered. With the pandemic vaulting the e-commerce sector on a higher growth trajectory and the entry of players such as the Tata Group and Reliance Group in this competitive space, multi-storey warehouses could become mainstream phenomena much earlier than expected.  The writer is National Director, Industrial   and Logistics,   Knight Frank India  Continued on page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/tracking-indias-warehousing-boom/article36786861.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Reviewing India’s Q3 2021||In Q3 2021, housing sales surged 113% y-o-y across the top 7 cities — from approx. 29,520 units in Q3 2020 to nearly 62,800 units in Q3 2021. MMR accounted for 33% of the total sales, followed by NCR with a 16% share. Meanwhile, new launches in the top seven cities rose by 98% yearly — from approx. 32,530 units in Q3 2020 to approx. 64,560 units in Q3 2021. While MMR continued to see the highest number of new launches (of approx. 16,510 units) in the quarter, Hyderabad was close behind with a new supply infusion of approx. 14,690 units. Interestingly, the mid-segment (homes priced between Rs. 40-Rs. 80 lakh) and premium homes (priced between Rs. 80 lakh and Rs. 1.5 crore) continue to dominate new supply with 41% and 25% shares, respectively. The affordable housing segment (units priced <Rs. 40 lakh) saw its supply share reduce to 24% in the quarter. Q3 2021 overall sales overview Residential sales stood at approx. 62,800 units in Q3 2021 across the top seven cities. The y-o-y increase was 113%, and the q-o-q sales surge a stellar 156%. NCR, MMR, Bengaluru, and Pune together accounted for 79% of the sales in the quarter. MMR and Pune also saw a significant sales surge in the quarter compared to other top cities — by 128% (approx. 20,965 units) in MMR and 100% (approx. 9,705 units) in Pune. NCR and Bengaluru saw sales in Q3 2021 increase by approx. 97% (approx. 10,220 units) and 58% (approx. 8,550 units) respectively against Q3 2020. Chennai saw approx. 3,405 units sold in Q3 2021 — a significant increase of 113% over Q3 2020.  Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/reviewing-indias-q3-2021/article36786860.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Two (positive) bathroom stories||This Saturday, I will be dealing with two unrelated incidents — both connected by a bathroom — that are nothing but positive and life-affirming, but have been given an entirely negative spin by the cynical press and an increasingly intolerant social media. The first incident pertains to Janata Dal (United) leader and Bihar MLA, Gopal Mandal. It was reported that he was spotted ‘roaming around in his undergarments’ while travelling in the AC first-class compartment of the Tejas Rajdhani Express, following which co-passengers objected to the leader’s ‘behaviour’. (Mandal’s defence that he needed to use the bathroom urgently because of which he removed his kurta -pyjama fell on deaf ears.) What’s so terrible with what he’s done that’s, pardon the choice of idiom, getting everyone’s komanams in a twist? What’s he done that Milind Soman hasn’t been doing on a weekly basis? Why is it okay for Soman to run around in picturesque locations, most likely singing ‘ Made i n India, Made i n India’ , and post his rearguard action on social media to a standing ovation from an appreciative public while Mandal, attired in respectable vest and drawers with nada , is accused of being vulgar, out of control and creating a ruckus? What about the topless uncles we are subjected to from time to time? Appearing at weddings and other family dos, baring their Dunlop daddaries with impunity to the unsuspecting public? Are any of these men warning passers-by or guests that they are going to be treated to a Mylaporean version of an all-male Moulin Rouge ? No, sir. How come that’s okay but Gopal Mandal is a vulgar, bad man. Stop being so hypocritical. If Milind, mamas, and certain melas can do it with not a care in the world, so can a Mandal. The next incident I want to talk of features one Mr. Murli Kamat of Andheri, who occupied two hotel rooms for a period of eight months and ‘fled’ without paying the Rs. 25 lakh-bill he’d racked up. Via the bathroom window. What a bad man! How could he? This is how the incident is being reported in all the papers. And social media has been unnecessarily cruel, too, in my opinion. Why is this being twisted into something evil and cunning when all I can see is the good? By not paying Rs. 25 lakh, Kamat saved about Rs. 5,200 per day, good money that can be put to so many better uses like building infrastructure, setting up a pakora stall, etc. This is a lesson in financial planning. Had Kamat stayed in a 5-star hotel, he’d have saved 10k per day. Please note that Kamat used the bathroom window to exit. What does that prove? That he is slim and agile. Which can only mean one thing. He is a yoga practitioner. That the gentleman gave eight months of non-stop business to the ailing hospitality sector during the lockdown cannot be ignored. He boosted the morale of the waiters, housekeeping staff, etc, by being a constant reassuring presence in their lives. What is most important, however, is how he left. Quietly, humbly, in the middle of the night. He didn’t ask for a farewell party, return gifts or for the room to be named ‘The Murli Kamat Suite’. Such modesty can only come with yoga and following our ancient culture. Murli Kamat is a true patriot. I nominate him for the Mehul Choksi Engirundaalum Vaazhga Award for 2021. And Gopal Mandal for a cover feature in GQ on body positivity. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-positive-bathroom-stories/article36787276.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||All eyes on Maharashtra govt. over next move on Param Bir||A day after Maharashtra Home Minister expressed the possibility of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh “escaping from India”, there was intense speculations on whether the State would suspend the officer. The senior policeman is being probed for allegations of extortion. Home department officials said all technical aspects would be examined before taking any decision. “The Chandiwal commission, formed to probe allegations against Param Bir Singh, sent him summons at to his houses in Chandigarh and Malbar Hill but he did not comply. The latest summon has asked him to appear on October 6,” said an official. Mr. Singh was transferred as DG, Home Guards, in March. He went on leave shortly after taking charge. The Congress alleged on Friday that the Bharatiya Janata Party had a definite role in giving safe passage to Mr. Singh, if indeed he had escaped. “It is quite clear that saving him supports the BJP’s agenda,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. “What was the chowkidar government doing? How often do we find chowkidar government napping when people like Nirav Modi, [Mehul] Choksi, [Vijay] Mallya and Parambir elope?” asked Mr. Sawant. On Thursday Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil told reporters it would not be a good thing if Mr.Singh had left the country. “Whether it is a minister, senior official or chief minister, all those who work for the government have to follow certain rules and regulations. They cannot leave the country without prior permission,” he had said. Last week the possibility of suspending the former Mumbai police chief was discussed by the government, sources said. Mr. Walse-Patil, when asked about the action to be taken against Mr. Singh, said the State government would discuss the issue with the Centre. “We are looking for him and once he is found, we will decide,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-mumbai-police-chief-may-be-suspended/article36787141.ece
02 October 2021||IMPHAL,||NIA to probe kidnap and murder of social activist||The Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order on September 30, directing the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take up investigation into the kidnap and murder of social activist Athuan Abonmei on September 22 in Tamenglong district. This was stated in a press release issued by H. Gyan Prakash, special secretary (home), Government of Manipur, on Friday. Chief Minister N. Biren, who also holds Home, stated on Thursday as desired by the Central government, he had furnished all details, including the FIR, into the incident. However, various forms of agitations are going on demanding justice for Athuan Abonmei. The next one is a 24-hour shutdown from October 3 midnight. Former Minister Okram Joy said on Friday that Abonmei was kidnapped and murdered in broad daylight from the venue where Mr. Biren and his ministerial colleagues were present. He contended that there was no rescue attempt. Mr. Biren should step down during the inquiry period for transparency and effectiveness of the NIA inquiry, since he himself had admitted a security lapse and tendered an apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nia-to-probe-kidnap-and-murder-of-social-activist/article36787289.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam eviction: Cong. MLA served notice for ‘provocative’ comment||The Assam unit of the Congress party has issued a show-cause notice to one of its MLAs for a provocative statement linked to an eviction drive in the Darrang district. The party has also asked Sherman Ali Ahmed, who represents the Baghbar Assembly constituency, to explain accusations that he has been acting as an agent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Mr. Ahmed had on September 30 justified the killing of eight Assamese youths in the Garukhuti-Dhalpur area almost 40 years ago. The area was where police shot and killed two persons, one of them a minor, during an eviction drive on September 23. The government intends to free 77,000 bigha s in the area allegedly encroached by Bengali-speaking Muslims. The notice served by Congress general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma said the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and the State Congress took note of Mr. Ahmed’s statement with “communal overtones having great propensity to destroy the social harmony of our State”. The notice said that his provocative comments were politically motivated with the intent of causing harm to the Congress party before the bye-elections scheduled on October 30. Such comments would fuel the BJP’s divisive communal agenda too, it noted. Also questioning his closeness to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the Congress directed Mr. Ahmed to reply to State party president Bhupen Kumar Borah within three days of receiving the show-cause notice. The BJP and its ally the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) slammed the Congress MLA for being “insensitive” by referring to the eight “martyrs” of the Assam agitation as “ ghatak (assassins)”. Members of the AGP, which was formed by students leading that agitation from 1979-85, also burnt effigies of Mr. Ahmed across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-eviction-cong-mla-served-notice-for-provocative-comment/article36787142.ece
02 October 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra govt., BJP cross swords over aid||After heavy rainfall in the last few days destroyed hectares of cropland in the Marathwada region, politicking over relief began between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Opposition BJP in Maharashtra. A day after Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar urged the BJP-ruled Union government not to discriminate between States while providing relief packages, former Maharashtra Chief Minister and the Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday asked why the State government had not yet announced a relief package of its own, adding that all relief promised by the MVA government for natural calamities this year had “proven hollow”. “All the pronouncements of this [MVA] government is an eyewash… Flood-hit farmers and citizens from earlier calamities this year, including the heavy rainfall that affected the Konkan and western Maharashtra, have yet to receive compensation,” Mr. Fadnavis said. He added that he would be visiting Marathwada on Saturday. The BJP leader along with his BJP colleague, Pravin Darekar, the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, would be commencing their tour of the flood-hit districts in Marathwada from Washim, he said. ‘No need to wait’ “In reality, whenever a crisis of this magnitude grips the State, the government need not wait for the local administrations to finish the individual panchnamas [damage assessment] of farmers... It can announce basic relief for farmers if it wants to… I will visit the Marathwada tomorrow, beginning from Washim, to ensure that the plight of the farmers is heard by this government,” Mr. Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-govt-bjp-cross-swords-over-aid/article36787356.ece
02 October 2021||CHENNAI,||DGP gets possession of his blood-stained cap, badge||IPS officer Prateep V. Philip, who on Thursday retired as Director General of Police, Training, was permitted by a court to temporarily take possession of his bloodstained cap and name badge, which were marked as material objects in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Mr. Prateep, as Assistant SP, had miraculously survived the human bomb blast on that fateful night in Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991. In the impact of the blast, he had sustained injuries and his cap and name badge had fallen off. They were collected by the Special Investigation Team as part of evidence from the scene of the crime. A few days ahead of his retirement, a petition was filed on behalf of Mr. Prateep before the First Additional Sessions Court seeking to allow him to take possession of the cap and name badge. The trial court concluded the trial in the assassination case and pronounced judgment on January 28, 1998. The convicted persons and the respondent in the case have exhausted all their appeals and all the material evidence and objects available with the Special Investigation Team are no longer required to be preserved, said the petition. Sanjay Pinto, counsel for Mr. Prateep said the petitioner who faced a near death experience in the line of duty, wished to take back his blood-stained cap and name badge which were his personal belongings and were of immense sentimental value. First Additional Sessions Judge T. Chandrasekaran on September 28 allowed the petition of Mr. Prateep and ordered the return of his cap and name badge for his interim custody on execution of own bond for Rs. 1 lakh. The court said they should be handed over to the court on or before October 28 after the purpose gets served.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dgp-gets-possession-of-his-cap-name-badge/article36787140.ece
02 October 2021||Bhopal,||6 tiger reserves in M.P. reopen for tourists||Six tiger reserves in Madhya Pradesh reopened for tourists on Friday after remaining closed for three months during monsoon season, a forest official said. The core area of six reserves, including the famous Kanha National Park, were opened for visitors around 6.30 a.m., the official said. “The core areas of the tiger reserves were closed during monsoon, as it is the breeding season for big cats,” he said. MP has the highest number of 526 big cats in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/6-tiger-reserves-in-mp-reopen-for-tourists/article36787285.ece
02 October 2021||Mumbai,||No coercive action till Oct. 20: State to HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that no coercive action would be taken against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh till October 20 on his plea seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him in a 2015 atrocities case. Additional public prosecutor J.P. Yagnik told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that a statement made by the State earlier this year on May 24 would be extended till October 20. The court was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash the FIR, registered on April 2021, against him at the Bazzar Peth police station, Kalyan. It was also registered at Akola.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-coercive-action-till-oct-20-state-to-hc/article36787287.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Gucci 100 pop-up in Delhi||The 100th anniversary celebrations of Gucci is literally a year-long affair, and almost every month has had an announcement, sometimes several, from edgy campaigns to gaming collabs. Besides popping up in historic cities and landmarks — there were presentations at two temples in Kyoto, UNESCO World Heritage sites, during the Olympics, for example — the Italian luxury house also launched an online concept store, Vault. They called it a time machine, an archive, a library, and a laboratory, and it is constantly evolving (check out vault-gucci.com). There are refurbished vintage Gucci pieces and collections by young designers like Nigerian-Indian Priya Ahluwalia. Creative director Alessandro Michele’s endless imagination doesn’t stop there, of course. Earlier this week, New Delhi’s DLF Emporio saw the Gucci 100 pop-up with iconic looks, all inspired by songs that mention the brand. Lyrics like Eric B & Rakim’s ‘Music is mine/Gucci seats reclined’ have found their way on to coats, bags and hats. And there are enough floral prints and green and red stripes in the mix. What we liked most? The ‘spin a wheel’ on the cabinet with a playlist of Guccified songs. This pop-up concept is also available online at gucci.com or on the Gucci App. And the collection is available to purchase in Delhi currently and in Mumbai from October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gucci-100-pop-up-in-delhi/article36787274.ece
02 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. leaders blame BJP for unemployment in Himachal||Congress leaders and other members on Friday staged a demonstration in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala against the BJP government, accusing it of providing jobs to people from other States. It also blamed the government’s “ill-conceived policies” for a sharp rise in unemployment in the State. The party leaders also blamed BJP governments, both at the Centre and in the State, for a sharp rise in prices of fuel and domestic gas. Party workers, led by Congress’ state chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore and senior party leader and general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, held a protest march in the main market of the town. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Rathore accused the state government of selling government jobs to people from other states. “They are doing grave injustice to the unemployed people of the state. Those from outside are being recruited in different departments, which is unfortunate. Unemployment is rising in the State, but the government does not have a roadmap to bring it down. Instead of giving jobs to the youth, the government is snatching whatever employment that exists. The BJP government does not even compare with the number of jobs created during the previous Congress government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-leaders-blame-bjp-for-unemployment-in-himachal/article36787288.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Juice Beauty’s Indian palette||“Clean beauty isn’t defined,” says Karen Behnke, founder of American brand Juice Beauty, the ‘OG’ of clean beauty. It made its India launch this week with e-commerce beauty retailer Boddess. Indian skin, she says, is “melanin-rich” and if skincare isn’t formulated keeping this in mind, it might not have the desired effect, or worse, end up backfiring. Behnke, who has invested in a farm to grow their own ingredients, recommends the brand’s Green Apple Exfoliant. “Fruit and glycolic acids give better exfoliation for melanin-rich Indian skin.” Read her interview with Lavanya Mohan on weekend.thehindu.com.  Juice Beauty is available on boddess.com, from Rs. 2,600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/juice-beautys-indian-palette/article36787277.ece
02 October 2021||October 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Runway diaries||Another fashion week is here. The FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week kicks off on October 5 at 8.30 p.m., with a digital showcase by Tarun Tahiliani. The next five days will see shows by designers such as Arpita Mehta, Shruti Sancheti, Abraham & Thakore, and Rajesh Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, for some live action in an international locale, there’s Expo 2020 Dubai. Till March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/runway-diaries/article36787278.ece
