03 October 2021||New Delhi,||7 out of 106 names suggested as HC judges cleared so far: CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said the government had so far cleared seven of the 106 names recommended as High Court judges by the Supreme Court Collegium since May. Of the nine new Chief Justices of various High Courts suggested by the Collegium to the government from May, the latter has cleared one. “Since May, my team so far has recommended appointment of 106 Judges and nine new Chief Justices to various High Courts. The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine Chief Justices, so far. I expect that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon,” Chief Justice Ramana said. The CJI, however, remarked that Law Minister Kiren Rijiju had agreed to process the rest of the names in a short while. “The government has cleared some and the Law Minister has said the rest of things are going to come in a short time, in one or two days,” the CJI said. Chief Justice Ramana was speaking at the inaugural function of the six-week ‘The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign’ organised by the National Legal Services Authority. The CJI’s speech was made in the presence of President Ram Nath Kovind, Mr. Rijiju and Supreme Court judges and Collegium members Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. The CJI said the appointments, as they came through from the government side, would take care of the issues of pendency in the High Courts to some extent. “I seek the cooperation and support of the government to enable access to justice and to strengthen democracy,” Chief Justice Ramana said. The CJI said the endeavour of the nation should be to carry the flag of justice to its remotest corner and to the weakest person. Chief Justice Ramana said inclusive growth could only be attained through equal and inclusive access to justice. Unequal access to justice leads to greater gaps in social fabric. Apart from pendency, vacancies and piling up of thousands of cases, the pandemic had exposed some deep-rooted problems in society. “Lack of health care, eviction from home and uncertainty about one’s next meal — all these overflow from absence of justice,” Chief Justice Ramana said. President Kovind commended the legal service authorities for reaching out to the poorest in the country. He emphasised the need to have more women lawyers participating in legal aid services to bring legal relief to more women. “As a country, our aim is to graduate from ‘women development’ to ‘women-led development’. Therefore, increasing the number of women in National Legal Services Institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries,” the President said. The CJI said socio-economic growth would be impossible to achieve without equal access to justice. Legal awareness is key to equal access to justice... Quality of democracy lies in the quality of justice rendered. Healthy democracy needs a vibrant judiciary,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-out-of-106-names-suggested-by-collegium-cleared-so-far-cji/article36801372.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vikrant to sail out for Phase 2 trials||The maiden sea trials of the indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant have progressed very well and the second phase of trials are expected to begin by October-end, with the third phase planned in December, a defence official said. “ Vikrant is expected to be delivered to the Navy in April and likely to be commissioned in August 2022,” the official said which would also coincide with 75 years of Independence. Simultaneously, work is under way on the aviation complex of the carrier for which a Russian team is here. The aviation trials will continue once the carrier is commissioned and they would be done with the MiG-29K jet in service with the Navy, the official said. ‘Extremely satisfactory’ During the maiden sea trial in August, Vikrant ’s performance, including hull, main propulsion, power generation and distribution and auxiliary equipment, were tested. The results were extremely satisfactory and the engine showed 100% performance and some issues that had come up were being addressed, the official said.  Vikrant , designed by the Navy’s Directorate of Naval Design and built by Cochin Shipyard Ltd., has more than 76% indigenous content. There are 14 decks, including five in the superstructure and over 2,300 compartments designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, with separate accommodation for women officers. In the Phase 2 of the trials, the complete habitat, including each of the over 2,300 compartments, would be thoroughly checked, the official said. The Navy had floated a Request For Information (RFI) issued in 2017 to procure 57 twin-engine carrier-borne fighters and the responses are being evaluated. As reported by The Hindu earlier, the number was to be downsized from 57 to 36. A final decision is awaited and the number could be downsized further, it has been learnt. A final decision is yet to be taken and the number could be downsized further, it has been learnt. This is in the backdrop of a new indigenous Twin Engine Carrier Based Deck Fighter (TEBDF) being designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA). Concurrently with sea trials of Vikrant, plans are afoot for the trials of the fighter jets in the fray for the tender. “Initially, trials will be done on the Shore Based Test Facility (SBTF) at Goa and then on the aircraft carrier,” the official said. The aircraft likely to be tested are Boeing F/A-18 Super Hornet, Dassault Avaition Rafale and Saab Gripen-E. In preparation for the trials, Boeing had last December shown the comparability of its F/A-18 Super Hornet with the Navy’s Short Takeoff but Arrested Recovery (STOBAR) system by launching it from a ski-jump from a shore based facility at Naval Air Station Patuxent river in Maryland, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vikrant-to-sail-out-for-phase-2-trials/article36801369.ece
03 October 2021||MULUGU,||Police unearth Maoist arms dump in forest areas||A joint team of police and the personnel of the bomb disposal squad on Saturday unearthed a Maoist dump and recovered a cache of explosives, portable devices and other material from Kalvapalli forest area in Tadwai mandal of Mulugu district. Acting on a tip-off, the joint team carried out a search operation in the forest area along the outer periphery of Kalvapalli in the early hours of Saturday, police said. Account sheets The team found 25 each gelatin sticks and detonators, a large bundle of cloth used to prepare “red flags”, a small bundle of wire, a flash camera, pen drive, Bluetooth speaker, earphones, power bank, battery charger, revolutionary literature and documents pertaining to the resolutions passed at various meetings of the CPI (Maoist) including the Dandakaranya special zone account sheets for 2015 and 2016. Giving details about the recovery of the Maoist dump to mediapersons in Mulugu on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said the Maoist dalam and militia members concealed explosives and other material in the underground dump in Kalvapalli forest area at the behest of Pulluri Prasad Rao alias Chandranna, Bade Chokka Rao alias Damodar and other Maoist leaders. Plea to Maoists “Maoists are trying to foment unrest and violence to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the Agency areas in a bid to obstruct development in Mulugu and Jayashankar Bhupalpally districts,” he alleged, calling upon the Maoist cadres to eschew violence and join the mainstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-unearth-maoist-arms-dump-in-forest-areas/article36801846.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N.’s estimated population for vaccination revised to 5.78 crore||Tamil Nadu’s estimated population aged above 18 for COVID-19 vaccination coverage has been revised to 5,78,91,000. Earlier, it was 6.06 crore. In a letter to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan in September, Additional Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Manohar Agnani said the Ministry had been regularly reviewing the vaccination drive and sharing the feedback with the States and the Union Territories. During these reviews, some of the States and the Union Territories had raised the issue of difference in the estimated target population communicated by the Government of India and those of the States and the Union Territories. The issue was referred to the Office of Registrar-General and Census Commissioner for inputs and corrections, if any, in the estimated population. It provided a revised estimate of population in various age groups based on the ‘Report of the Technical Group on Population Projections for India and its States/UTs 2011-2016,’ the letter said. Accordingly, the revised age-specific population for Tamil Nadu that is being used for analysis of vaccination coverage by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is 5,78,91,000 persons (18 years and above). Of them, 3,28,99,000 are in the 18-44 category, 1,45,73,000 in the 45-59 category and 1,04,19,000 are aged 60 and above. The State was requested to use these estimates for evaluating the performance of the drive. The State’s earlier mid-year population (2020) of above 18 years was estimated to be 6,06,15,919 — 3,86,95,314 persons aged 18-44, 1,32,92,281 aged 45-59 and 86,28,324 aged above 60. Officials said that earlier, Tamil Nadu was following a slightly higher denominator based on the projections of the State Bureau of Health Intelligence. With the target population revised, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the above 60 years base had increased within the overall picture. So far, the 45-59 age group accounted for the highest first dose coverage of 69%, while the second dose coverage stood at 27%. In the 18-44 category, 57% received the first dose and 13% the second dose,Among senior citizens, 42% received the first dose and 18% second dose.  The office of Registrar-General and Census Commissioner gave a revised estimate of population based a report Manohar AgnaniUnion Health Ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-estimated-population-for-vaccination-revised/article36801650.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,||No Shobha Yatra during Dasara this year too||Like last year, the Mangaluru Dasara to be organised by Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple will be without the Shobha Yatra and the mass feeding of people this time also. Harikrishna Bantwal, member of temple development committee, told reporters here on Saturday that as per the directions of the district administration the committee decided not to hold Shobha Yatra of Navadurga, Sharada, and Narayana Guru idols on October 15. Instead a small procession will be held on the temple premises and Sharada and Navadurga idols will be immersed in the temple pond. Mr. Bantwal said there will be no distribution of food during the 10-day Dasara that starts from October 7. The temple will provide food packets to each of the devotees visiting. Padmaraj R., treasurer of the temple , said the the temple had facilities to vaccinate devotees coming to the temple. “We have earmarked space where devotees can get the jab between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Both doses of vaccine will be available. People need to bring Aadhaar card to get the vaccine,” he said. B. Madhava Suvarna, secretary of the temple managment committee, said the 10-day festival will be held by complying with norms laid down by the district administration. “We will ensure social distance and wearing of masks,” he said, and added that nearly 20 artiste groups will take part in the cultural progamme, which will be virtually screened to people. While thanking Mangaluru City Corporation Council and elected representatives for the MCC’s decision to take up illumination of the 7-km Shobha Yatra stretch, Mr. Bantwal said it was wrong to say that temple had run short of funds due to COVID-19, which has made the MCC to bear the cost of illumination. “Like other organisations, the temple’s earning too has got affected due to the pandemic. But this had not posed any problems for temple to foot bills for illumination of the stretch that comes to Rs. 60 lakh,” Mr. Bantwal said. It was Manglauru City South MLA D.Vedavyas Kamath, who proposed in 2019, and MCC illuminated a part of the 7 km stretch in 2020. “This year MCC is covering the whole stretch,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-shobha-yatra-during-dasara-this-year-too/article36801883.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. notifies new rules to clear retro tax mess||Firms such as Cairn and Vodafone disputing retrospective tax demands in India will not only have to withdraw all legal proceedings and waive all rights to claim costs or attach Indian assets but also indemnify the government on costs and liabilities from any action pursued by other interested parties in future. Setting the stage for a closure of the retrospective tax disputes over indirect transfer of assets situated in India, the government late on October 1 notified new rules under the Income Tax Act for specifying the process to be followed by affected taxpayers to settle these long-brewing disputes. The Income-Tax (31st Amendment) Rules, 2021, introduce a new portion pertaining to ‘indirect transfer prior to May 28, 2012 of assets situated in India’, and lay out the conditions and formats for undertakings to be submitted by all ‘interested parties’ to the tax department in order to settle their tax disputes. The affected taxpayers, along with all the interested parties (such as their shareholders, for instance), will have to give up all claims in any ongoing legal proceedings, including arbitration, mediation efforts and attachment proceedings, with an explicit undertaking that such initiatives will not be reopened under any circumstances. In order to pre-empt the possibility of an unknown interested party invoking fresh claims against the government in the future, the rules stipulate that the ‘declarant and all the interested parties shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Republic of India and Indian affiliates from and against any and all costs, expenses, interest, damages, and liabilities of any nature arising out of or in any way relating to the assertion or, bringing, filing or maintaining of any claim, at any time after the date of furnishing the undertaking.’ An indemnity bond would have to be furnished that the taxpayer and interested parties ‘fully assume the risk of any omission or mistake with respect to identification and procurement of authorisations and undertakings from any related parties or interested parties as provided in the undertaking’. In early September, after draft rules were issued to resolve these tax disputes, the worst-affected player, U.K.-based Cairn Energy said it was working with the Indian government to expedite ‘documentation and payment of refund’ of $1.06 billion of retrospective taxes at the centre of its high-stake dispute with India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-notifies-new-rules-to-clear-retro-tax-mess/article36801365.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan CLAPs for a cleaner State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday launched the “Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP)” initiative by flagging off a huge fleet of garbage collection vehicles here on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. “To realise the dream of Mahatma Gandhi's ‘Grama Swarajyam’, we have established ward and village secretariat system two years ago taking governance close to the people. Today, we are launching CLAP. My tributes to Mahatma," Mr. Jagan tweeted before the launch of the initiative. Mr. Jagan paid floral tributes to the busts of Gandhi and Shastri before taking part in the programme. He went through the model garbage collection vehicle and garbage collection rickshaw and interacted with sanitation workers. Later, Mr. Jagan launched compact disks (CDs) comprising CLAP programme details. The fleet of new compact garbage vehicles with separate chambers for dry waste, wet waste, electronic waste and hazardous waste lined up on the M.G. Road and proceeded to their respective districts upon being flagged off by Mr. Jagan. A total of 4,097 vehicles were inaugurated. These vehicles will be used to collect garbage from households and transport it to dumping stations or garbage transfer stations in urban local bodies.  Meanwhile, two vehicles were damaged while on the run immediately after the fleet was flagged off. One vehicle lost control and rammed another one before it. CLAP is aimed at ensuring clean and healthy surroundings in every neighbourhood with the slogan “Clean Villages, Clean Cities, Swachh Andhra Pradesh, Swachh Bharat”. Ministers Velampalli Srinivas, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Collector J. Nivas, MLAs and others were present. Meanwhile, vehicular traffic on all the roads leading to Benz Circle and M.G.Road were blocked and diverted to other routes. Traffic jams occurred at many junctions and people were forced to wait on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-claps-for-a-cleaner-state/article36801322.ece
03 October 2021||Guwahati,||Cong. seeks to put Meghalaya house in order||After suffering setbacks in Punjab and Goa, the Congress leadership has made a move to stem the rot within the party in Meghalaya. The Meghalaya unit of the Congress has been divided into two camps since the party leadership appointed Shillong MP Vincent H. Pala as its president a month ago. The dissident camp is said to be led by former Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Mukul M. Sangma. Senior Congress leaders are likely to meet Dr. Sangma and Mr. Pala in New Delhi by October 4 to iron out the differences between the two leaders ahead of the bypolls to three Assembly seats on October 30. Differences within the Congress in Meghalaya became apparent after Dr. Sangma said he was not consulted before the party leadership made Mr. Pala the State unit president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-seeks-to-put-meghalaya-house-in-order/article36801370.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||LJP factions can’t use party name, symbol: EC||The Election Commission on Saturday passed an order saying both factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), led by Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras and Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan, would not be allowed to use the party’s name or symbol for the upcoming Bihar Assembly byelections. The interim order would cover the period of the byelections to the Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly constituencies and continue till the EC makes a final determination of the dispute, the order said. The two sides had staked claim to the LJP name and symbol, but with the last date for nominations of candidates for the bypolls being October 8, the EC said the “time available is not adequate to ensure due process”. Mr. Paswan, in his oral submission on October 1, sought a decision before October 8, the order said. The polls were announced on September 28 and polling is scheduled for October 30. The EC said “...In order to place both the rival groups on even keel and to protect their rights and interests, and going by the past precedents,” both groups would not be permitted to use the LJP name and “bungalow” symbol, which is reserved for the party in Bihar. Both groups could choose names of their own on their own and pick symbols from the list of available ones, the EC said. The groups were asked to submit the names and three choices of symbols by Monday afternoon. After the death of Ram Vilas Paswan last year, his son, Mr. Chirag Paswan, and his brother, Mr. Paras, both staked claim to the party leadership. Mr. Paras wrote to the EC on June 14 claiming to be the LJP leader in Parliament, the order stated. Mr. Chirag informed the EC in a series of letters about the party suspending five MPs, including Mr. Paras. He reiterated his claim of being the party president on September 10, the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljp-factions-cant-use-party-name-symbol-ec/article36801363.ece
03 October 2021||Kalaburagi,||Vijayanagara inaugurated at grand event||Vijayanagara district, which was recently formed by carving out six taluks from Ballari, was formally inaugurated at a grand programme at Hosapete, headquarters of the new district, on Saturday by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The stage was shared by former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in whose period the district was formed, Ministers, and a host of local leaders. Seers from different mutts who had rallied behind Environment, Ecology and Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh for the formation of the new district also participated in the event. Vijayasthamba Amidst cheers, Mr. Bommai unveiled a model of Vijayanagara Vijayasthamba (Vijayaganara Pillar). The pillar would be built in front of the district and taluk administrative complexes – 45-ft high outside the to-be-built district headquarters in Hosapete and 18-ft high in taluk headquarters. The Chief Minister also released documents, including the orders for the appointment of Deputy Commissioner, Superintendent of Police, and other district-level officers. Mr. Bommai said that the government would offer all financial assistance for the development of the new district. “A sum of Rs. 50 crore has already been sanctioned and we will give more money as and when required,” he added. Earlier in the day, a colourful cultural procession was taken out on the Ratha Beedi of Vadakaraya Temple. As many as 80 performing cultural troupes from different parts of the State participated in the procession displaying the socio-cultural heritage of the land. Mr. Yediyurappa, in his address, attributed the success of the formation of the new district to the “determined efforts” of Mr. Singh, who, he said, went on to fight for Vijayanagara district “risking his political career”. He said that formation of smaller taluks and districts helped in better administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vijayanagara-inaugurated-at-grand-event/article36801655.ece
03 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Multi-pronged strategy to locate, capture tiger T23 alive||Drones, sniffer dogs and elite forest force were all put to work, even as another day went by with the Forest Department no closer to capturing the elusive tiger, T23, which remained undetected for a seventh day. After closing the entire stretch between Masinagudi and Theppakadu to traffic, drones and forest personnel were deployed to locate the tiger, which has killed two persons in villages bordering the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and Gudalur. The tiger is also suspected to be behind the deaths of two others, though this remains unproven. Tracking the animal More than 75 forest personnel, including expert trackers and special task force members, were engaged in on-ground operations to track the animal. Officials said the prime objective of the operation was to neutralise the animal through non-lethal methods using tranquilliser darts. A team of Forest Elite Force personnel from Coimbatore joined the operation late Saturday. Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, deputy director of MTR, core area, said the tiger had hidden itself in thick undergrowth in the areas surrounding Masinagudi. Camera traps are being set up to narrow the search area and locate the animal, he said. The operation will continue on Sunday. The police stopped people from traveling past the Masinagudi check post, while forest staff have closed the Theppakadu check post. The entire stretch was declared as “operation area”. The road was reopened for traffic on Saturday evening. Forest officials said all efforts were geared towards tranquillising and capturing the tiger alive. The Forest Department headquarters clarified that no shooting order had been issued (to kill the tiger) and the the order issued on Friday was for hunting. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, hunting includes capturing, trapping, tranquillising, restraining and killing only when all the above steps fail. All efforts are towards trapping the tiger, a senior official said. Chief wildlife warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj also clarified that the tiger was not a man eater. Locals protest Villagers and kin of the 82-year-old man who died on Friday staged a protest in Masinagudi on Saturday, demanding that the tiger be killed. The protesters refused to bury the body of M. Basavan. Forest officials and police rushed to the spot and held talks with the protesters, who eventually dispersed. The body was later buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/multi-pronged-strategy-to-locate-capture-tiger-t23-alive/article36801713.ece
03 October 2021||Bhopal,||Chhattisgarh is no Punjab, asserts Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday refuted speculation on a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled State ahead of an impending visit by former party president Rahul Gandhi, the dates for which haven’t been announced yet. Pressed by reporters at the Raipur helipad about the Bharatiya Janata Party drawing a parallel between Punjab and Chhattisgarh vis-a-vis dissensions within the Congress units in the two States, Mr. Baghel replied obliquely: “Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two States have only one similarity — both have numbers in their name. No other States have numbers in their name.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-is-no-punjab-asserts-baghel/article36801745.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,||No subsistence allowance to suspended staff: panel||In a significant order, the Tamil Nadu Information Commission has recommended to the State government to amend rules to exempt payment of subsistence allowance to employees suspended for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. It has also recommended that departmental inquiry in such cases be kept in abeyance till the disposal of the criminal proceedings. The Commission passed the order while disposing of a petition seeking to know the number of employees of the town panchayats in Tamil Nadu who have been suspended, the charges and term for which they have been under suspension and the total amount paid as subsistence allowance to them under the Tamil Nadu Civil Service (Appeal & Disciplinary) Rules. The Public Information Officer, Commissionerate of Town Panchayat, informed that a total of 102 employees were under suspension and 42 of them were suspended under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The term of their suspension ranged between 2 months and 18 years. The details of the total amount paid to them as subsistence allowance “were not available with the Commissionerate office”. The Commission, referring to the rules, noted that suspended employees were entitled to 50% wages in the 0-90 days period, 75% during 90-180 days and full wages after 180 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-against-subsistence-allowance/article36801677.ece
03 October 2021||HUKUMPETA (EAST GODAVARI),||Time to wage a united fight against YSRCP: Pawan||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday appealed to the leaders and elders of the Kapu, Telaga and Ontari communities to unite and lead the battle being waged against the YSRCP. The way the Kapu movement had been weakened should serve as a lesson, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said while addressing a public meeting here. “Post 2014, the Kapu movement has been weakened. It is time for the Kapu, Telaga and Ontari communities to unite and join me in the struggle. You should shoulder this responsibility,” the JSP president said. “I am not an enemy to any community. If the three communities join the JSP, the others – Setti Balija, Toorpu Kapu, and Velama, and Dalits and minorities – will also join us in the fight,” he observed. “Such a united movement will inspire the leaders in the neighbouring Telangana too. For seven decades, all these communities have been deprived of their opportunities. It is time the elders of these communities played the role of the big brother in Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Pawan said. “I will remain in politics till my last breath. I had waged battles against those with criminal background and sound financial resources,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said. Earlier, launching the party’s State-wide initiative to repair roads, Mr. Pawan participated in the ‘shramadaan’ and repaired the road in the village. Badvel bypoll Addressing a public meeting at the Kothacheruvu in Anantapur district after participating in the road repair work through Shramdaan in the evening, Mr. Pawan announced the JSP would not contest the Badvel byelection and was for the unanimous election of deceased MLA’s wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/time-to-wage-united-fight-against-ysrcp-pawan/article36801360.ece
03 October 2021||Guwahati,||Congress seeks to put Meghalaya house in order||After suffering setbacks in Punjab and Goa, the Congress leadership has made a move to stem the rot within the party in Meghalaya. The Meghalaya unit of the Congress has been divided into two camps. The dissident camp is said to be led by former Chief Minister Mukul M. Sangma. Senior leaders are likely to meet him and Mr. Pala in Delhi by Oct. 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-seeks-to-put-meghalaya-house-in-order/article36801963.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Pay hike for NHM’s contract staff||A 30% pay hike has been granted to 28,100 contractual staff of the National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu. For this, an additional expenditure of Rs. 89 crore will be incurred annually, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday. The Minister handed over orders for the salary hike to 20 persons on Saturday. Accordingly, the monthly salary of AYUSH doctors and dental medical officers has been increased from Rs. 26,000 to Rs. 34,000, for IT coordinators from Rs. 16,500 to Rs. 21,000, for maternal child health officers from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 19,000, for staff nurses from Rs. 14,000 to Rs. 18,000 and for pharmacists from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 15,000. The salary has been raised from 11,000 to Rs. 14,000 for auxiliary nursing mid-wife, from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 13,000 for physiotherapists, from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 13,000 for lab technicians and from Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 8,500 for hospital workers, according to a press release. Since July 1, these workers, recruited on out-sourcing basis through private firms, have been posted as direct contract workers through district health societies/patient welfare societies. Their salaries have been increased from May, the release said. The Minister appreciated the work of doctors, nurses and medical workers during the pandemic. MDS rank list On the occasion, the Minister released the MDS rank list for 2021-2022. There were 358 MDS seats — 62 in government colleges and 296 in self-financing ones. As many as 1,018 applications were received. Of these, 964 persons are eligible for the rank list. The Minister said counselling for admissions to MDS, based on the rank list, would start on Saturday. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Mission Director of NHM-T.N. Darez Ahamed, Project Director of the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project S. Uma, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu, Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam and selection committee secretary P. Vasanthamani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-pay-increase-for-contract-staff-of-nhm/article36801689.ece
03 October 2021||SALEM,||Former DMK legislator Raja passes away||A. Raja, former DMK legislator, died of cardiac arrest here on Saturday. He was 58-years-old and was about to celebrate his birthday the same day. Raja was the second son of former DMK Minister Veerpandi S. Arumugam and he represented Veerapandi constituency between 2006 and 2011. He was serving as State secretary of the party’s election working committee. Raja was found unconscious at his residence near Pulavari on Saturday morning, and though he was rushed to a private hospital nearby, doctors declared him dead. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin took a special flight from Madurai to Salem and paid his respects and consoled Raja’s family members. State Ministers K.N. Nehru, M.R.K. Paneerselvam, K. Ponmudi, E.V. Velu, MPs and other senior leaders paid their respects. Funeral on Sunday DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi also visited Pulavari and expressed her condolences to Raja’s family. According to family members, the funeral is expected to be held on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-dmk-legislator-raja-passes-away/article36801705.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘LJP factions can’t use party name, symbol’||The Election Commission on Saturday passed an order saying both factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), led by Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras and Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan, would not be allowed to use the party’s name or symbol for the upcoming Bihar Assembly byelections. The interim order would cover the period of the byelections to the Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly seats and continue till the EC makes a final determination of the dispute, the order said. The two sides had staked claim to the LJP name and symbol, but with the last date for nominations of candidates for the bypolls being October 8, the EC said the “time available is not adequate to ensure due process”. Mr. Paswan, in his oral submission on October 1, sought a decision before October 8, the order said. The election was announced on September 28 and polling is scheduled for October 30. The EC said, “...In order to place both the rival groups on even keel and to protect their rights and interests, and going by the past precedents,” both groups would not be permitted to use the LJP name and “bungalow” symbol, which is reserved for the party in Bihar. Both groups could choose names on their own and pick symbols from the available list, the EC said. The groups were asked to submit the names and three choices of symbols by Monday afternoon. Also, they were asked to submit documents supporting their claim to represent the party by November 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljp-factions-cant-use-party-name-symbol/article36801633.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Beauty treatment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beauty-treatment/article36801367.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Following in his footsteps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/following-in-his-footsteps/article36802000.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-China talks next week: Army chief||India and China are likely to hold the 13th round of Corps Commander-level talks next week aimed at resolving the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Naravane, said on Saturday. The focus will be on working out a plan for disengagement in the Hot Springs area. “The talks have been going on for more than a year now… We are hopeful to have the 13th round of talks very soon, perhaps as soon as next week, that is the second week of October,” General Naravane told a news agency in Leh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-talks-next-week-army-chief/article36801746.ece
03 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. will complete term: Gehlot||Facing demands from the rival faction in the ruling Congress for a power-sharing arrangement, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government would complete its full tenure of five years and he would be active for the next 15 to 20 years. He said all speculation doing the rounds here after the change of guard in Punjab were “wrong and unfounded”. Addressing a programme at his official residence to launch two campaigns of the administration, Mr. Gehlot said the Congress government would not only complete its five years but would also come back to power in the next Assembly election. “There is no anti-incumbency factor against our government. We have obtained an authentic feedback from the people [on this],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-govt-will-complete-term-gehlot/article36801868.ece
03 October 2021||Kalaburagi,||Grand inaugural for Vijayanagara district||Vijayanagara district, which was recently formed by carving out six taluks from Ballari, was formally inaugurated at a grand programme at Hosapete, headquarters of the new district, on Saturday by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The stage was shared by former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in whose period the district was formed, Ministers, and local leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grand-inaugural-for-vijayanagara-district/article36801632.ece
03 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Centre to begin paddy procurement today||On the day when farmers staged demonstrations in many parts of Punjab and Haryana against postponement of paddy purchase, the Centre on Saturday decided to start procurement in both the States from October 3. The Centre had postponed the procurement citing higher moisture content due to rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-begin-paddy-procurement-today/article36801747.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Udupi declared as ODF Plus 1 district’||Udupi has been declared as open defecation-free plus one (ODF Plus 1) district, according to Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-declared-as-odf-plus-1-district/article36801884.ece
03 October 2021||Kalaburagi,||Vijayanagara inaugurated||Vijayanagara district, which was recently formed by carving out six taluks from Ballari, was formally inaugurated at a grand programme at Hosapete, headquarters of the new district, on Saturday by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vijayanagara-inaugurated/article36801885.ece
03 October 2021||Bhopal,||Chhattisgarh is no Punjab, asserts Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday refuted speculation about a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled State. “Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two States have only one similarity — both have numbers in their name,” Mr. Baghel told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-is-no-punjab-asserts-baghel/article36801869.ece
03 October 2021||MADURAI,||CM takes part at grama sabha meet at Pappapatti||In a first, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday took part at the grama sabha meeting held at the Pappapatti reserved village panchayat near Usilampatti on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi. The CM joined others in taking a pledge to promote gender equality and work against female foeticide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-takes-part-at-grama-sabha-meet-at-pappapatti/article36801676.ece
03 October 2021||Belagavi,||Man killed allegedly over inter-faith relationship||The decapitated body of a 24-year-old man was found on the railway tracks near Khanapur in Belagavi district, leading to suspicion that he was killed by members of a right-wing organisation over his inter-faith relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-killed-allegedly-over-inter-faith-relationship/article36801797.ece
03 October 2021||Belagavi,||Shepherds’ experiment with self-reliance||The Kanakadasa Sheep Rearing and Wool Producers Cooperative Society of Sindholi village in Belagavi district has been helping shepherds and weavers for over half a century||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shepherds-experiment-with-self-reliance/article36801798.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The reformists within the Congress party||As a former Union Minister who expounded the “zero loss” theory in the allocation of 2G spectrum during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, Kapil Sibal is no stranger to controversies. But his claim that “in our party, at the moment, we have no president ” crossed a red line. Mr. Sibal, who is part of a group of 23 (G-23) leaders that had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August last year to press for inner party reforms, had challenged the Gandhis without naming them. “We are G-23, but definitely not Ji Huzoor [yes-men] 23,” he declared at a press conference on September 29. The rebuttal was swift as a group of party workers from Chandni Chowk — a Lok Sabha constituency that Mr. Sibal had represented earlier — descended at the dissenting leader’s house with placards reading ‘Get Well Soon’ and rained tomatoes outside his private residence. In this Congress versus Congress moment, however, the narrative that the Gandhis are the “glue” that can keep the party together in turbulent times seems to have been undone. The emergence of G-23, or the reformists as they call themselves, exemplifies this. The lot included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Bhupendra Singh Hooda, M. Veerappa Moily, Prithviraj Chavan, P.J. Kurien, Renuka Choudhary, Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada, Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Raj Babbar, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur, Kuldeep Sharma, Yoganand Shastri, Sandeep Dikshit and Vivek Tankha, besides Mr. Sibal. While Mr. Prasada has quit the party, Mr. Moily has publicly distanced himself from the group. But most of them, either long-standing Congress members or second generation leaders with unfailing loyalty to the Gandhi-Nehru family, are willing to put many of the decisions taken by the Gandhis, especially the siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, under scrutiny. Erosion of support The Punjab experiment to elevate Navjot Singh Sidhu as the State party chief and unseat Captain Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister, and the decision to induct former president of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union, Kanhaiaya Kumar, to the party and several other key decisions in which the Gandhi siblings are seen to be the driving force are being questioned. “We don’t know who is taking these decisions. We know, yet we don’t know,” said Mr. Sibal, indicating that Mr. Gandhi is calling the shots despite stepping down as the party president two years ago. Be it appointing office bearers, choosing the party’s nominees for the Rajya Sabha or deciding the chief ministership, the former Congress chief is still the go-to person for the party. The G-23 has questioned the high rate of attrition the party faces as well. In the past year and a half, exits of high-profile politicians like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada, Sushmita Dev, Luizinho Faleiro and P.C. Chacko (all believed to be close to the Gandhi family) have only added to the sense that the ‘faith in the leadership of the Gandhis’ is eroding. “The erosion of support base and, in particular, losing the confidence of the youth, is a matter of serious concern. In the last two national elections, India had added 18.7 crore first time voters — 10.15 crore in 2014 and 8.55 crore in 2019. The youth voted overwhelmingly for Modi and the BJP. The vote share of the BJP sharply increased from 7.84 crore in 2009 to 17.6 crore in 2014 and to 22.9 crore in 2019. In contrast, the Congress lost its share of 1.23 crore of the votes polled in 2009. We have marginally crossed the 2009 numbers in the last Lok Sabha elections,” the G-23 pointed out in their August 2020 letter to Ms. Gandhi. The failure to win recent Assembly elections on their own own, even in former Congress strongholds of Assam and Kerala, has raised a sense of alarm among a section of party leaders. Many are worried about the ‘business-as-usual’ attitude of the leadership and the lack of a sense of urgency. Collective leadership Some of the reformists privately argue that the absence of ‘experienced’ political advisers in the team of the Gandhi siblings and running a political party like a ‘corporate entity’ are some of the reasons for their ‘ineptitude’. That’s why they have reiterated their demand for an elected party president, CWC and central election committee and the restoration of the Congress Parliamentary Board for collective decision-making. “The Nehru-Gandhi family will always remain an integral part of the collective leadership of the Congress party,” the G-23 argued in their letter. While not everyone is rooting for a change in the leadership of the family, some like former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, who is not a part of the G-23, have rued about the inability to start ‘meaningful conversations’ within party forums. “I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence,” Mr. Chidambaram tweeted a day after Mr. Sibal’s house was targeted by party workers. But the Congress’s internal strife is not only about the party’s free fall in elections or a tussle between the reformists and the loyalists, with loyalists alleging that the G-23 is guided by motives like securing positions such as Rajya Sabha berths; it is also about Mr. Gandhi’s attempt to recast the party without the old guard. Cut to December 2018 when the party won Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan under stewardship of Mr. Gandhi. Despite being the party president, he was unable to push people of his choice for chief ministership, something that led to the collapse of the government in Madhya Pradesh (M.P.) and has become sore points in Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. While he wanted his one time-friend, Mr. Scindia, to be at the helm of affairs in M.P., the old guard is said to have prevailed over his mother in favour of Kamal Nath. Ditto for Sachin Pilot and Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan when the old guard ensured Mr. Gehlot becomes the CM. In 2019, Mr. Gandhi owned up to the Lok Sabha poll debacle but not before pointing out that he fought a ‘lonely’ battle. “I personally fought the Prime Minister, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the institutions they have captured with all my being. I fought because I love India. And I fought to defend the ideals India was built upon. At times, I stood completely alone and am extremely proud of it,” Mr. Gandhi had said in his resignation letter in May 2019. As the Congress’s internal divide becomes a matter of public debate, some of the Gandhi family loyalists have questioned the ‘agenda’ of the reformists while others have urged to place faith in time-tested leadership. “We know that personal agendas are pursued mostly in the name of high principle,” said former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar, adding: “Those who claim that their actions are inspired by a reformist zeal should know that a point of principle can be invoked only by those who have not been the beneficiaries of the system that they now conveniently question”. Salman Khurshid, another former Minister, wrote in a Facebook post on October 1: “Our leaders have led us from the front and for decades together ensured that we have the comfort of being in power.” With the Congress seeming to be in the grip of an ‘existential crisis’ now, it is, perhaps, incumbent upon the leadership to restore this faith in every ordinary Congress worker, not just the loyalists.  In Focus The G-23 emerged as a group of "reformists" when 23 Congress leaders wrote a letter to party President Sonia Gandhi in August last year, pressing for inner party reforms  The Punjab experiment to unseat Amarinder Singh as CM, the decision to induct Kanhaiaya Kumar to the party and several other key decisions driven by the Gandhi siblings are now being questioned by the group Kapil Sibal, who is part of the group, recently claimed that “in our party, at the moment, we have no president”, directly challenging the leadership of the Gandhis   Exits of high-profile politicians like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada from the Congress have added to the sense that the ‘faith in the leadership of the Gandhis’ is eroding||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-reformists-within-the-congress-party/article36801302.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-China Corps Commander talks next week: Army chief||India and China are likely to hold the 13th round of Corps Commander-level talks next week aimed at resolving the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Naravane, said on Saturday. The focus will be on working out a plan for disengagement in the Hot Springs area. “The talks have been going on for more than a year now… We are hopeful to have the 13th round of talks very soon, perhaps as soon as next week, that is the second week of October,” General Naravane told the news agency Asian News International in Leh during his two-day visit to the forward areas of Ladakh. “We are confident that as we discuss things with each other, we will be able to reach a consensus on how this disengagement is to take place, and by and by, all the friction points get resolved,” he said. More Chinese troops Stating that China has deployed troops in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh and the northern front right up to India’s Eastern Command, the Army chief said, “Definitely there has been an increase in their deployment in the forward areas, which remains a matter of concern for us.” However, he said the Army was monitoring all the Chinese developments and based on inputs, was carrying out matching developments in terms of infrastructure. “At the moment, we are quite well poised to meet any eventuality,” he said. The Army has deployed its newest induction, the K9-Vajra 155-mm, 52-calibre tracked self-propelled howitzer close to the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, significantly augmenting its firepower. “These guns can also work in high-altitude areas, [and] field trials were extremely successful. We have now added an entire regiment, this will be really helpful,” General Naravane said. As part of efforts for overall disengagement and de-escalation to end the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the first phase of disengagement from both sides of Pangong Tso was undertaken in February and the second phase of disengagement from the Gogra area in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-corps-commander-talks-next-week-army-chief/article36801262.ece
03 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. will complete term: Gehlot||Facing demands from the rival faction in the ruling Congress for a power-sharing arrangement, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government would complete its full tenure of five years and he would be active for the next 15 to 20 years. Mr. Gehlot said all speculation doing the rounds here after the change of guard in Punjab were “wrong and unfounded”. Addressing a programme at his official residence to launch two campaigns of the administration, Mr. Gehlot said the Congress government would not only complete its five years but would also come back to power in the next Assembly election. “There is no anti-incumbency factor against our government. We have obtained an authentic feedback from the people [on this],” he said. His remarks about the State government’s stability were apparently directed at both the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the rival camp in the Congress led by his former deputy, Sachin Pilot. The two campaigns, ‘Prashasan Shahron Ke Sang’ and ‘Prashasan Gaon Ke Sang’, marked Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary celebrations. Mr. Gehlot thanked the people of the State for sending their wishes and prayers when he underwent angioplasty recently and urged them to go for heart check-ups after their recovery from COVID-19. The Chief Minister also took a jibe at the BJP for questioning him on working from home during the pandemic. “We should follow all protocols because we are still living in the middle of a pandemic. The BJP lost its leader [Rajsamand MLA] Kiran Maheshwari to the virus, but they are still not willing to learn,” he said. Mr. Gehlot, 70, underwent an angioplasty at the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here on August 27. He has had health issues since he recovered from COVID-19 in May. No word on reshuffle The Chief Minister did not address the issue of Cabinet expansion and reshuffle as well as political appointments, which have been inordinately delayed, in his speech. He holds as many as nine portfolios, including Home and Finance. The Pilot camp has been anxiously waiting for inclusion in the Cabinet and political positions ever since an assurance was given by the Congress high command. Mr. Pilot was sacked both as the Deputy Chief Minister and the Pradesh Congress president after he, along with 18 MLAs, staged a rebellion against Mr. Gehlot in July last year. While Mr. Gehlot’s loyalists have affirmed that the political situation in Rajasthan would not witness any major upheaval after the turmoil in Punjab, the Congress emissaries from New Delhi have been unable to convince him to carry out an early reshuffle. The State can have a maximum of 30 Ministers. At present, there are 21 members in the Council of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, and nine slots are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-govt-will-complete-term-gehlot/article36801275.ece
03 October 2021||CHANDIARGH,||Centre to begin paddy purchase today||On the day when farmers staged demonstrations in many parts of Punjab and Haryana against postponement of paddy purchase, the Union government on Saturday decided to start procurement in both the States from October 3. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal also announced the procurement after meeting Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ashwini Kumar Choubey in New Delhi. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also said the Centre had allowed the State to start paddy procurement from October 3. He said this decision would be instrumental in ensuring smooth and hassle-free procurement to the satisfaction of the farmers. Earlier, the Centre had announced postponement of procurement in both States until October 11, citing higher moisture content due to rainfall. “In Haryana, the crop has already reached the mandis . In the interest of the farmers who have harvested their crops and have brought it to mandis , a request was made to Mr. Choubey for allowing the State government to start the procurement from October 3. I am happy that he accepted our request,” Mr. Lal said. At Karnal in Haryana, a group of farmers picketed outside Mr. Lal’s residence and shouted slogans against the delay in paddy purchase. It was only after the announcement of the procurement decision that they lifted the dharna. Farmers staged demonstrations in several other places too, responding to the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions leading the protests against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-begin-paddy-purchase-today/article36801292.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Indian democracy less inclusive today’||India’s best hope for a successful foreign policy and national security is an economy growing in double digits and a less polarised democracy, says a new paper by senior former officials and analysts who warn that the development model is in doubt due to falling GDP figures. The paper — “India’s path to power: strategy in a world adrift” — was released by the Centre for Policy Research in Delhi on Saturday, and dwells on the internal and external threats, challenges to the “Neighbourhood First” policy, and concerns about the position in a possible U.S.-China conflict, which they say is more likely now than in the past and can be triggered by events over Taiwan in the next decade. The paper also critiques India’s ‘protectionist’ economic stance and climate change and cyber policies, and also makes a detailed criticism on the state of democracy under the Narendra Modi government, which is likely to evoke some response from the ruling party. No-holds-barred contest “There is concern that Indian democracy is moving steadily towards ethnic majoritarianism, polarisation and divisiveness,” write the authors in the introduction of “India’s path to power”. “India’s vibrant electoral democracy appears to be morphing into a no-holds-barred contest for power… Indian democracy seems less inclusive today than at any point in its history,” they conclude, adding that the foreign policy is being driven by “domestic political and ideological factors” that have had a “perverse impact” on relations with Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Significantly, some of the paper’s authors, a list that includes former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon; Lt. Gen. Prakash Menon (retd); former special envoy on climate change and nuclear issues Shyam Saran; academics Sunil Khilnani and Srinath Raghavan; and analysts Yamini Aiyar, Nitin Pai and Ajit Ranade, had presented a similar work in 2012 entitled “Nonalignment 2.0”, that also made prescriptions for the previous UPA government’s foreign and security policy. Both Mr. Menon and Mr. Saran were in office at the time, and Mr. Saran subsequently served as Chairman of the National Security Advisory board during the Modi government’s first tenure. The authors, who have replaced the term non-alignment with the term “strategic autonomy” that carries more currency in present times, write that they wished to update their policy prescriptions a decade later due to major developments that have changed the world, and in particular in the Indian subcontinent. Security preoccupation The paper predicts a “greater security preoccupation for India” in its neighbourhood given its proximity to the Indo-Pacific which is likely to become the theatre of U.S.-China conflict, as well as due to China’s willingness compared to the past, to “intervene in the domestic politics of India’s neighbours”. In a departure from the current policy, the authors advocate engagement with Pakistan, calling upon the Modi government to allow Pakistan to host the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit, that India has refused to attend since 2016. It also refers to India’s membership of the Quad partnership with the U.S., Australia and Japan, as well as the Russia-China led Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) as useful forums to exert “strategic autonomy” principles. On the subject of Chinese transgressions at the LAC since 2020 and the killing of Indian soldiers in Galwan, the authors, some of whom have dealt with previous border crises with China, say the China policy “must now be reset to the reality of a live border and of antagonistic political relations”, predicting that the “China challenge”, including incursions at various points at the LAC like Tawang, Depsang and the Siliguri corridor, will be India’s predominant security threat, and advises several measures, including expanding ties with the Quad, Russia, Turkey and Iran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-democracy-less-inclusive-today/article36801259.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Weakening of Cong. not in country’s interest’||Amid the ongoing crisis in the Punjab unit of the Congress, senior party leader and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed concern about the party’s “disintegration” and the violent protests at Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal’s residence.  What are your thoughts on your friend and comrade Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.)’s decision to quit the Congress?  It is a matter of concern when even a small worker leaves the party. Captain is a towering leader, who has twice been the Chief Minister of Punjab, deputy leader of the party in the Lok Sabha and the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president of the State. So, of course, it is a matter of huge concern. Captain’s case, though, is not isolated. We have seen senior Congress leaders leave in Goa, in Uttar Pradesh and other States. Weakening and disintegration of the Congress is not in the interest of the country or our democracy... A strong Opposition is key for a vibrant democracy. We (the Congress) need to introspect. Do you believe the central leadership of the party faltered in resolving the Punjab problems right from the very beginning? And they could have been more clear-headed about it?  I don’t blame anybody, but, yes, it could have been handled in a better way. This disintegration that you speak about did not happen overnight. Do you believe that it is the result of erratic leadership?  All I can say is that these are the things that need to be discussed within the party forum where everyone can freely express their opinion. The orchestrated attack on Kapil Sibal’s home is not Congress culture. Of course, there can be divergent opinions that can be debated within the party without indulging in hooliganism. After former president Rahul Gandhi quit post the debacle in 2019, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) was thrown open to pick his successor. Why didn’t any leader propose a name other than the Gandhis?  We may not have won the Lok Sabha polls, but nobody wanted Mr. Gandhi to resign. Congressmen wanted him to continue, but it was up to him. After he left, Sonia ji took over as the interim president and she said an election would be held soon to pick the party’s president. Do you think there is a need to build an alternative Congress?  What is an alternative Congress? Congress is Congress. The present crisis can be resolved through dialogue within the party. Yes, Punjab could have been handled in a better way and the present situation could have been avoided. In the past, there have been speculation about you quitting the Congress too. Were you ever frustrated enough to consider the option?  No. Rumours are just rumours. I have no grouse with the party. My only desire is to see the Congress in a stronger position. And what is your prescription for that?  The change has to happen at the grassroots level. There should be fresh elections to elect members for block, district and State-level committees of the party. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates should be chosen through elections. The exodus of senior Congress leaders is happening simultaneously with the induction of leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani. Do you share the fear of many others in the party of a possible leftward shift in the party?  This is a continuous process in political parties where new people keep joining in. The so-called friction between the old and the new guard is a matter of fiction. The Congress has always occupied the middle path and we stand for one and all.  Punjab could have been handled better and the present situation avoided||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weakening-of-cong-not-in-countrys-interest/article36801280.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||Baghel senior observer for U.P. poll||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was appointed senior observer for the Congress ahead of the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Team Baghel believes that this for once and for all settles the question of Mr. Baghel’s continuation in the Chief Minister’s chair. State Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo had staked claim to the Chief Minister’s post invoking a promise made in 2018 by then party president Rahul Gandhi agreeing to a rotational tenure between him and Mr. Baghel. As per the arrangement, the Chief Minister’s post was supposed to go to him on June 18, the halfway mark of the five-year tenure of the government. The appointment though is not a bolt from the blue. Mr. Baghel, who recently played an active role as a senior observer ahead of the Assam Assembly election, was widely expected to be roped in Uttar Pradesh too. His close associate, Rajesh Tiwari, was appointed the All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in the State, assisting general secretary in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Mr. Baghel’s political adviser, Vinod Verma, has also been stationed in U.P. for more than one month now. “The Congress needs an Other Backward Class [OBC] face, specifically a Kurmi leader. Mr. Baghel fits in that role. His appointment sends a clear message that the party values him,” a senior leader close to Mr. Baghel said. Significant timing The timing of the appointment is equally significant for team Baghel. On August 27, at the end of a meeting with Mr. Gandhi, Mr. Baghel had announced that Mr. Gandhi would be visiting Chhattisgarh. His impending visit had started to be seen as a stocktaking exercise to weigh in on the question of Mr. Baghel versus Mr. Deo. So far, Mr. Gandhi’s office has not decided any date for the visit. “The fact that the appointment comes before his visit clearly shows the trust he and the leadership bestows on the Chief Minister,” the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-senior-observer-for-up-poll/article36801283.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The man on the throne||As Japan stands on the cusp of a significant change in political leadership, the man of the hour is former Foreign Minister and newly elected leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, Fumio Kishida (64). As Japan’s 100th Prime Minister, Mr. Kishida will be stepping into the shoes of his predecessor Yoshihide Suga, after the latter’s approval ratings plunged precipitously in the wake of Japan’s tepid coronavirus pandemic response, including on the economic front. Mr. Kishida is expected to take charge in his new capacity after the Diet, the Japanese Parliament, convenes in October. When he does so, he will find the task ahead of him to be near gargantuan. He will inherit responsibility for managing the world’s third-largest economy. Add to this the pre-existing structural problems of an ageing population, soaring public debt, and extreme vulnerability to climatic shocks and natural disasters, and it is evident that his plate is full. Reworking the blueprint At the heart of this challenge is the imperative for Mr. Kishida’s party, the LDP, to back a transformative fiscal programme that can boost spending through stimulus packages. Industries reeling from the impact of nearly six months of lockdown restrictions could certainly use a shot in the arm of considerable magnitude. Being a moderate and liberal voice within a party known for conservatism and Japanese nationalism at a broad level, Mr. Kishida is ideally positioned to shepherd such reforms through the Diet. He has already indicated his inclination to increase public expenditure to give the Japanese economy a leg-up as it limps back to commercial normalcy; yet he has hinted that he will avoid immediate tax hikes even if the deficit expands. This puts his approach in sharp contrast to a Japan’s longest serving Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, whose ‘Abenomics’ was focused on delivering economic growth led by rising corporate bottom lines. In this regard, making a name for himself through a distinct style of political leadership will be important for Mr. Kishida, primarily because he will likely have to contend with a general election at the latest by November 28 under the Japanese Constitution, following the end of the term of the lower house of Parliament on October 21. In facing the hurdles ahead in his new role, the Kishida family’s long involvement in politics may be an asset. Both Mr. Kishida’s father as well as grandfather were members of Japan’s powerful lower house, the House of Representatives. When, in 1993, the mantle passed to Mr. Kishida from his father, who held the parliamentary seat from Hiroshima, he succeeded in winning that constituency. This would mark the early days of a strong career in mainstream Japanese politics, which culminated in Mr. Kishida serving as the longest standing Foreign Minister in the country since World War II. In this capacity, he was also likely drawing on his experience living in the U.S. as a child, and his exposure to other cultures during that time. In the early 1960s, his father, who was at the time a trade official in the Japanese government, secured a role in New York, leading to the young Mr. Kishida, then six years old, relocating there with his family and studying at a public school in Elmhurst, Queens. Later, he wrote that despite occasionally brushing up against subtle racism in certain contexts, as a student he mingled with a diversity of ethnic people, including white, Indian, Native American, and Korean, and although “the U.S. was an enemy of Japan during the war and the nation that dropped the nuclear bomb on Hiroshima… I was young, and to me, the U.S. was nothing but a country that was generous-hearted and filled with diversity.” In China’s backyard The obvious focal point in Japanese foreign policy going forward will be Japan-China relations. During his tenure as Foreign Minister, Mr. Kishida made it very clear that Tokyo would always foster warm relations with the U.S., India, Australia, and other democratic Asian powers, both strategically and economically. Yet with Beijing pursing aggressive territorial policies relating to Taiwan and the South China Sea, and North Korea once again veering towards testing ballistic missiles, Mr. Kishida will have to work assiduously and creatively to successfully walk the tightrope across regional political rivalries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-man-on-the-throne/article36801304.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Tunisia’s first woman PM||On September 29, Tunisia’s embattled President Kais Saied, faced with growing criticism of his power grab, made a surprise move by appointing a little-known geologist as the country’s first woman Prime Minister. Mr. Saied had dismissed the Prime Minister and suspended Parliament in July. Ever since he consolidated power in his hands and announced that he would rule by decree, moves his opponents call a coup. With the appointment of Najla Bouden Romdhane, the 63-year-old professor at the Tunis National School of Engineering with practically no political experience, Mr. Saied is seeking to put his rule by decree in an administrative frameworks. In a video message released on September 29 introducing Ms. Bouden to Tunisians, the President said: “This is a historic moment, an honour for Tunisia and a tribute to Tunisian women.” Ms. Bouden did not speak in the video. When Mr. Saied ousted the government of Prime Minister Hichem Mechichi that was backed by the Islamist Ennahda party, the largest bloc in the suspended Parliament, many Tunisians welcomed the move. Mr. Mechichi had faced widespread public criticism over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s economic woes. Tunisia, a country of 11 million people, has one of the highest per capita Covid mortality rates. But when Mr. Saied moved to suspend much of the 2014 Constitution, and awarded himself near total powers, resistance started building up. Tunisia was seen the only country among those hit by Arab street protests in 2010-11 that successfully transitioned into a multi-party democracy from dictatorship. Mr. Saied’s moves raised questions and worries about Tunisia’s transition story. Angry opposition If Mr. Saied hoped that the appointment of Ms. Bouden would placate the opposition, he was wrong. The new Prime Minister will not have the backing of Parliament, a Constitutional requirement. Ennahda legislators have asked their leader, Speaker Rached Ghannouchi to convene the Assembly in defiance of President Saied and question the legality of the appointment of Ms. Bouden as the Prime Minister. The influential UGTT labour union has also spoken against Mr. Saied's power grab. But Mr. Saied appears determined to go ahead with his plans and Ms. Bouden emerges as his lieutenant. Born in the central Kairouan province in 1958, Bouden holds a doctorate in geology. The Paris-educated academic has held several senior positions in Tunisia’s education sector. In 2011, she was appointed Director General in charge of Quality at the Ministry of Higher Education, according to the official TAP news agency. In 2016, she headed the ‘management by objectives unit’ for the implementation of the higher education reform project. Currently, she is serving as the World Bank’s Programme Implementation Officer at the Ministry of Higher Education. According to Turkey’s Anadolu news agency, Ms. Bouden doesn’t have any known political affiliations. It’s not clear what led Mr. Saïed to pick a university professor for the Prime Minister’s job, nor is there any clarity on Ms. Bouden’s vision for governance. The President’s critics say that by choosing a technocrat with no political experience and popular base, Mr. Saïed could make sure that there’s no challenge to his authority from the Cabinet. Under the Tunisian Constitution, the Prime Minister, the President and the Speaker are the three pillars of the State and the Cabinet is responsible to Parliament. But Mr. Saïed’s decree made it clear that the PM and the Cabinet would be responsible to him. The new Prime Minister’s mandate, according to the President, is to “combat corruption and chaos that pervaded in many state institutions”. Ms. Bouden’s surprise elevation to the top echelons of power comes at a particularly challenging time. The country’s public debt stands at 88% of GDP. The dinar, it currency, has lost half its value over the past 10 years. Unemployment is high at 18%. The government had initiated talks with the IMF for a bailout, but those discussions were paused after Mr. Saied’s power grab. Domestically, the opposition is trying to mobilise support for a lasting showdown with Mr. Saied and his cherry-picked PM. All these suggest that the North African Arab country’s first woman PM could get the going tough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tunisias-first-woman-pm/article36801306.ece
03 October 2021||Srinagar,||Let NC support PC to avoid split of Muslim votes: Lone||Sajad Lone, chairman of the Peoples Conference (PC), on Saturday asked the National Conference (NC) to support his party if the latter was worried about a division of Muslim votes in Jammu and Kashmir. “The PC is a 45-year-old party. Nobody can accuse us of being created yesterday. We have been victims in the past though. So, if they [NC] think Muslim votes were being divided, let it support us and decide not to fight elections. They [Abdullahs] have been Chief Ministers — the father, the son and the grandfather. Let a poor man’s son become Chief Minister now. Let it not be me. Let it be Nizam Sahib or Imran sahib. What is wrong with it? If they support, I will go by their suggestions,” Mr. Lone said. Mr. Lone, who quit the Gupkar alliance earlier this year, was responding to remarks from NC leaders that his party was dividing Muslim votes in J&K and could help the electoral prospects of the BJP in the next elections. “People of J&K have been trapped in the post August 5, 2019 situation. The PC will stand up for them in our united quest to retrieve back what is rightfully ours,” Mr. Lone said.  He said the current administration, which was a “selected administration” and not an “elected administration”, was indulging in the economic persecution of the people of J&K, as a sequel to the political persecution. Meanwhile, another Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader and former legislator from Bandipora, Nizamuddin Bhat, joined the PC in Srinagar on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-nc-support-pc-to-avoid-split-of-muslim-votes-lone/article36801277.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘5 cr. houses given water connections’||Five crore households had been provided with water connections since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, adding that tap water was now reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages. He said today’s India had done more work on this front in just two years than what was done in seven decades. Speaking after interacting with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Mr. Modi said the mission was village-driven and its vision was not just to make water accessible, but it was also a big movement towards decentralisation. In an apparent dig at the previous Congress governments, Mr. Modi said those who had the responsibility of policymaking for a long time had lived in an abundance of water. “In the places where these people lived, they had never seen problems due to a lack of water. They did not even know what the pain of life without water was. They had water in their houses and their swimming pools, an abundance of water,” he said in his address via videoconferencing. The Prime Minister said the vision of the Jal Jeevan Mission was a village-driven and women-driven movement, and its main base was mass movement and public participation. Pointing out that from the time of Independence till 2019, only three crore households in the country had access to tap water, Mr. Modi said five crore households had been given water connections since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019. “Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. In the aspirational districts, the number of tap connections had increased from 31 lakh to 1.16 crore,” he said. The Prime Minister also launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the mission. He also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, where any individual, institution or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, could contribute to help provide tap water connections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-cr-houses-given-water-connections/article36801289.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How beneficial is the new pill to patients with COVID-19||Why is there much excitement about molnupiravir, the investigational new drug for COVID-19? Pharmaceutical major Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics announced via a press release on Friday that the early results from Phase 3 trials that its anti-viral drug molnupiravir halved the chances of hospitalisation in COVID-19 patients with mild or moderate disease. Placebo trials involve testing a drug on thousands of people, in which some of them get the drug and some — who are in a placebo group — do not. In the placebo arm, 53 patients of 14% were either hospitalised or had died, whereas in the group that got the drug, 28 — or 7.3% — were hospitalised or succumbed to the infection. After 29 days of monitoring, no deaths were reported in patients who received molnupiravir, as compared to eight deaths in those who received placebo. Several noted clinicians have said that these are promising results, and what is particularly encouraging is that molnupiravir is a pill, unlike other drugs — with similar efficacy — used in COVID-19 treatment, which needs to be administered intravenously. Is molnupiravir a breakthrough for COVID-19 treatment? While the hospitalisation-avoidance rates are reassuring, there is still much that is unknown about molnupiravir. Complete phase-3 trial data is pending, a publication in a peer-reviewed medical journal is awaited that will explain the process of the trial in the degree of detail that will inspire more confidence among practitioners and drug authorities everywhere. The company will soon be submitting data to the United States Food and Drugs Administration for a review, after which the drug may be approved for emergency use authorisation. So far, it being a drug that can be administered as pills as part of a five-day regimen is its biggest strength. The drug has so far been tested only in patients with mild-to-moderate COVID-19, had started treatment within five days of testing positive and had at least one risk factor that increased their risk for severe disease. Another positive factor is that recruitment for the phase-3 trial, that originally envisaged recruiting 1,500 patients for testing the drug’s potency, was halted early by an independent data monitoring committee because the data appeared so encouraging that it would be unethical to delay making the drug more widely available. About 40% of participants had their genomes sequenced to detect the specific variant they were affiliated by and molnupiravir reportedly demonstrated “consistent efficacy” across viral variants Gamma, Delta and Mu. How does molnupiravir work? The company name for molnupiravir is ‘EIDD 2801’ the ‘E’ indicating it was developed at Emory University. Antiviral drugs, and this includes the much-in-demand Remdesivir, work by inhibiting the process by which the virus replicates. In the case of molnupiravir, when tested on cultured cells, it works by altering critical enzymes that are necessary for the virus to begin replicating in the body’s host cells. What are the next steps for the drug? Presumably on the back of encouraging data from Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials, Merck has reportedly begun production of the drug in large numbers. It said it expected to produce 10 million courses of treatment by the end of 2021, with more doses expected to be produced in 2022. Earlier this year, Merck entered into a procurement agreement with the U.S. government, under which Merck will supply approximately 1.7 million courses of molnupiravir to the U.S. government, upon EUA or approval from the U.S. FDA.  The New York Times reports that a course of treatment for the drug could cost $700 (Rs. 50,000 approx.). This is cheaper than the monoclonal antibody therapy, which while being more effective, is a more involved treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clinicians-praise-molnupiravir-for-ease-of-use-in-pill-form/article36801296.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trinamool spent Rs. 154 cr. on Bengal polls, says ECI report||The Trinamool Congress outspent all the other recognised national and State parties that contested the five Assembly elections that concluded in May and submitted their election expenditure reports to the Election Commission of India (ECI) as on Saturday. The BJP’s election expenditure report had not been published by the ECI as on Saturday. According to the reports published by the ECI on September 30, the Trinamool spent Rs. 154.28 crore on the Assembly campaign, while the Congress spent Rs. 84.93 crore in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Assam. The Trinamool’s expenses were divided into spending by the central party office (Rs. 79.66 crore) and expenditure on candidates (Rs. 74.61 crore). Of the expenditure by the party headquarters, Rs. 33.02 crore was spent on travel expenses of star campaigners and Rs. 11.93 crore on advertisements. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) was in the second place in terms of the highest expenditure by parties that had declared their spending so far. It spent Rs. 114.14 crore for the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry elections. It spent Rs. 39.78 crore on media advertisements and Rs. 54.47 crore on candidates. The AIADMK spent Rs. 57.33 crore for the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry polls as well as the Kaniyakumari Lok Sabha by-election, and Rs. 56.65 crore on media advertisements alone. The CPI declared an expenditure of Rs. 13.19 crore on all five elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-spent-rs-154-cr-on-bengal-polls-says-eci-report/article36801273.ece
03 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Dissolve HSSC, says Congress||Hitting out at the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) government in Haryana, Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday raised questions on the functioning and examination system of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), demanding it to be immediately dissolved. Mr. Surjewala said the government and the HSSC had made a mockery of the competence of the youth of Haryana. “The matter of fact is that the HSSC comprising BJP-JJP leaders has destroyed the entire examination system and ruined the future of the youth,” he said here at a press conference. Mr. Surjewala alleged that a mafia selling examination papers dominated Haryana. “Now, another scam has come to the fore in the recruitment of sub-inspectors [male]. In the last seven years, more than 30 papers have been leaked and sold openly. Fingers were pointed at the politicians holding positions in the government and the HSSC. But no one has been punished.” “In the background of serious allegations, the commission should be immediately dissolved and the allegations investigated by the High Court,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dissolve-hssc-says-congress/article36801281.ece
03 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Panel set up to implement Assam Accord||The Assam government on Saturday set up an eight-member sub-committee to examine and prepare a framework for the implementation of all clauses of the Assam Accord of 1985. “The Governor of Assam is pleased to constitute a sub-committee to examine and prepare a framework for implementation of all clauses of Assam Accord in general with special emphasis on Clause 6 [high-level committee report], Clause 7, Clause 9 and Clause 10…” a notification issued by G.D. Tripathi, Commissioner-Secretary for the Implementation of Assam Accord Department, said. NRC update The sub-committee has also been mandated to examine and prepare a framework for updating the National Register of Citizens, issues of flood and erosion, rehabilitation of martyrs’ families and victims of Assam Agitation besides the potential of the State’s all-round development. The members of the sub-committee are Ministers Atul Bora, Pijush Hazarika and Ajanta Neog, All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) president Dipanka Kumar Nath, its general secretary Sankar Jyoti Baruah and AASU advisors Samujjal Bhattacharya, Prakash Das and Uddip Jyoti Gogoi. Sujata Suchibrata, Deputy Secretary in the Implementation of Assam Accord Department, will be the convener of the sub-committee that will submit its report within three months for further course of action. The Clause 6 of the Accord pertains to the constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to “protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. The Accord was signed between the Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre and the AASU leadership to signal the end of the six-year Assam Agitation for driving out “illegal immigrants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-set-up-to-implement-assam-accord/article36801294.ece
03 October 2021||Pune,||Urgent need to stop licences for new sugar factories: Gadkari||Urging farmers in Maharashtra and other parts of the country to focus on producing ethanol from sugar cane juice instead of sugar, Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said there was a pressing need to stop issuing fresh licences to set up sugar factories in the State and elsewhere. Mr. Gadkari was speaking during the inauguration of a slew of road projects in Ahmednagar district, where he shared the dais with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. Expressing concern over the sugar surplus and the possible detrimental effects it could have on the rural economy, Mr. Gadkari said: “Sugar producing is a loss-making enterprise today. If the economic cycle goes in reverse gear, then farmers will not get any money for their produce, banks will crash and sugar factories will shut… Hence, the focus should be converting sugarcane juice to ethanol. The government is ready to buy ethanol, which is a green fuel. In this way, all petrol vehicles will run on ethanol in the future and the farmer, too, will be able to make money.” He said if farmers converted to producing ethanol, then the imports would greatly reduce from the Rs. 12 lakh crore to an estimated Rs. 5 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/urgent-need-to-stop-licences-for-new-sugar-factories-gadkari/article36801298.ece
03 October 2021||JODHPUR,||Future-proofing Langa-Manganiyar heritage||Considered the repository of the Thar region’s rich history and traditional knowledge, the ballads, folklore and songs of the Langa-Manganiyar artistes are being preserved through an initiative for documentation and digitisation. The project is aimed at saving the rapidly disappearing narrative traditions of these communities. The Jodhpur-based Rupayan Sansthan, established by an eminent folklorist, the late Komal Kothari, and writer Vijaydan Detha, has extended support to the initiative taken by the Archives and Research Centre for Ethnomusicology at the American Institute of Indian Studies (AIIS) in the research project. The Langas and Manganiyars are hereditary communities of Muslim musicians residing mostly in western Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer and Barmer districts and in Pakistan’s Tharparkar and Sanghar districts in Sindh. The iconic and internationally acclaimed folk artistes have, however, been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic that stopped their performances in India and abroad and poses a challenge to the very survival of the popular art form. The music of the two marginalised communities, who were supported by wealthy landlords and merchants before Independence, forms a vital part of Thar desert’s cultural landscape. Apart from the pandemic, this vital heritage is also facing a threat from changes in patronage and increased urbanisation in these districts. The Rupayan Sansthan has a collection of 20,000 hours of audio recordings of Langa-Manganiyar performances in analog form. The recordings, dating from 1980 to 2003, comprise a wide range of heroic ballads, romantic epic tales and the Sufi spiritual stories, Sansthan’s secretary Kuldeep Kothari told The Hindu on Saturday. The performances are in multiple languages and dialects including Marwari, Sindhi, Saraiki, Dhatti and Thareli. In addition to digitisation of the cassette collection at Rupayan Sansthan as part of the project, the researchers have been travelling to the remote villages in Jodhpur, Barmer and Jaisalmer districts to record the performances of Langas and Manganiyars. Mr. Kothari said the preservation of oral traditions would encourage the local communities’ involvement in the efforts to nurture audiences and protect the history of the desert region. The romantic tales revolving around legendary lovers such as Umar-Marvi, Heer-Ranjha, Sohni-Mahiwal, Moomal-Rana and Sorath-Rao Khangar have traditionally captivated audiences. “Our emphasis in the collaboration with the AIIS is on the preservation of katha, gatha, varta (tales, epics, talk) forms. The material derived from recordings will be made available for research and utilised for training of younger generation of performers,” Mr. Kothari said. Training for future In another initiative, Shafi Mohammed Langa is training young underprivileged boys from the musician communities at the School of Folk Music, set up by the Rupayan Sansthan. Stating that the nuances of ragas and presentation with proper expression and diction were being taught to children, Mr. Langa said the school would gradually emerge as a resource centre for western Rajasthan’s folk music. Famous Barmer-based vocalist Anwar Khan, a recipient of Padma Shri in 2020, said the artistes needed a greater support because their global performances having been halted in the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/future-proofing-langa-manganiyar-heritage/article36801265.ece
03 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||Non-smokers too can get lung cancer: consumer court to insurer||A consumer court here has ordered an insurance company to reimburse the amount of expenditure on medical treatment for lung cancer after the insurer refused to pay the claim saying the patient was addicted to smoking, which caused the disease. The court said there was no evidence to prove that the patient suffered from lung cancer due to his addiction to smoking, apart from the mention of “addiction smoking” on the treatment papers, which, it said, cannot form the basis for the insurer to reject the claim. It also said that people who do not smoke also suffer from lung cancer. The insurance company had rejected the claim of Rs. 93,297 incurred by policy holder Alok Kumar Banerjee on treatment of his “adenocarcinoma of lung” or lung cancer. Mr. Banerjee’s wife, Smita, challenged this in the Ahmedabad Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission together with Consumer Education and Research Centre. The court ordered the company to pay Rs. 93,297 with 7% interest from the date of application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/non-smokers-too-can-get-lung-cancer-consumer-court-to-insurer/article36801287.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Vikrant to sail out for Phase 2 trials||It is designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, with separate accommodation for women officers. In the Phase-II of the trials, complete habitat, including each of the over 2,300 compartments, would be thoroughly checked, the official said. The Navy had floated a Request For Information (RFI) issued in 2017 to procure 57 twin engine carrier-borne fighters and the responses are being evaluated. As reported by The Hindu earlier, the number was to be downsized from 57 to 36. A final decision is awaited and the number could be downsized further, it has been learnt. This is in the backdrop of a new indigenous Twin Engine Carrier Based Deck Fighter (TEBDF) being designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA). Concurrently with sea trials of Vikrant, plans are afoot for the trials of the fighter jets in the fray for the tender. “Initially, trials will be done on the Shore Based Test Facility (SBTF) at Goa and then on the aircraft carrier,” the official said. The aircraft likely to be tested are Boeing F/A-18 Super Hornet, Dassault Avaition Rafale and Saab Gripen-E. In preparation for the trials, Boeing had last December shown the comparability of its F/A-18 Super Hornet with the Navy’s Short Takeoff but Arrested Recovery (STOBAR) system by launching it from a ski-jump from a shore based facility at Naval Air Station Patuxent river in Maryland, U.S.. The Navy had contracted 45 Mig-29 Kaircraft from Russia and currently in service which Navy officials had stated earlier that there will not be enough aircraft to operate from both carriers. The TEBDF under development is progressing well and the first flight is planned in 2026, the official said. The TEDBF is envisaged as a twin-engine medium weight fighter with an all up weight of 26 tonnes and wing folding and is meant to replace the Mig-29Ks in service, said Dr. Girish S Deodhare, Distinguished Scientist and Programme Director (Combat Aircraft) & Director, Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) recently. On the progress of TEDBF, Dr. Deodhare had said the Preliminary Service Quality Requirements (PSQR) were defined over 6-8 months in which two configurations were evolved in coordination with the Navy. “From that one of the configuration preferred by the Navy was selected and the PSQRs are final,” he had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vikrant-to-sail-out-for-phase-2-trials/article36801260.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||LJP factions can’t use party name, symbol||The EC said, “...In order to place both the rival groups on even keel and to protect their rights and interests, and going by the past precedents,” both groups would not be permitted to use the LJP name and “bungalow” symbol, which is reserved for the party in Bihar. Both groups could choose names on their own and pick symbols from the available list, the EC said. The groups were asked to submit the names and three choices of symbols by Monday afternoon. Also, they were asked to submit documents supporting their claim to represent the party by November 5. After the death of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan last year, his son, Mr. Chirag Paswan, and his brother, Mr. Paras, both staked claim to the party leadership. Mr. Paras wrote to the EC on June 14 claiming to be the LJP leader in Parliament, the order stated. Mr. Chirag Paswan informed the EC in a series of letters about the party suspending five MPs, including Mr. Paras. He reiterated his claim of being the party president on September 10, the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ljp-factions-cant-use-party-name-symbol/article36801605.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Stumbling blocks to FTA can be surpassed’||Australia’s Trade Minister Dan Tehan is confident that the stumbling blocks to an India-Australia free trade agreement (FTA), such as the sensitivities for both sides on dairy and agriculture sectors, can be surpassed as negotiations kick off afresh. The two countries formally restarted negotiations for an FTA on Thursday, setting a December 2022 target for a complete pact and a commitment to seal an early harvest pact by this Christmas. The changed geo-strategic environment and fresh eyes at work could make the difference, he said. Difficulties with China Noting that Australia’s economic ties with China are facing some difficulties that have been “well-documented”, Mr. Tehan said that is one reason for them to diversify their trading relationships even as they seek a constructive dialogue with China. “The geo-strategic environment has seen the India-Australia relationship grow closer and we want to make sure the economic partnership matches that broader strength,” he said, explaining why outcomes that were elusive in past negotiations may not prove so difficult this time. Compromises and partnerships are possible in agriculture that could boost job creation in both countries, he said. Merino wool could be used by Indian apparel makers and exported back. Australian firms can lend technology and services support to enhance Indian farm sectors’ output. Australia will also nudge India to lower import tariffs on its wines. “There is nothing I would enjoy more than being able to provide India with some of Australia’s fine wine. It would be wonderful if Indians could enjoy a little bit more of Australian wine at a more affordable price and that will be something that we will be looking to achieve,” he said. “I would love to be able to celebrate the conclusion of an FTA with Trade Minister [Piyush] Goyal with a very good glass of Australian wine,” Mr. Tehan said in an interaction on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stumbling-blocks-to-fta-can-be-surpassed/article36801267.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. notifies new rules to clear retro tax mess||The affected taxpayers, along with all the interested parties (such as their shareholders, for instance), will have to give up all claims in any ongoing legal proceedings, including arbitration, mediation efforts and attachment proceedings, with an undertaking that such initiatives will not be reopened. An indemnity bond would have to be furnished that the taxpayer and interested parties “fully assume the risk of any omission or mistake with respect to identification and procurement of authorisations and undertakings from any related parties or interested parties as provided in the undertaking”. In early September, after draft rules were issued to resolve these tax disputes, the worst-affected player, U.K.-based Cairn Energy said it was working with the Indian government to expedite ‘documentation and payment of refund’ of $1.06 billion of retrospective taxes at the centre of its high-stake dispute with India. After years of dithering, the government amended the Income Tax laws earlier this year to scrap the retrospective tax provisions introduced in 2012-13, under which Cairn was taxed in 2014 for a corporate restructuring undertaken in 2006-07. The tax department had subsequently frozen the firm’s shares as part of the proceedings and sold them off to recover the claimed tax dues. An international arbitration tribunal scrutinising the tax dispute had ruled in Cairn’s favour last December and awarded it $1.2 billion in damages. While the government has filed an appeal against the arbitration verdict, Cairn has filed lawsuits in several overseas jurisdictions to enforce the tribunal’s award. In France, the company has secured a court’s permissionto freeze at least 20 Indian properties in Paris. In the U.S., it is pressing for securing Air India’s assets by arguing that the national carrier is the ‘alter ego’ of the government in an ongoing legal process. All such proceedings will have to be dropped and an undertaking be given to that effect as per the I-T Rules for burying these tax disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-notifies-new-rules-to-clear-retro-tax-mess/article36801268.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. to put Meghalaya house in order||After suffering setbacks in Punjab and Goa, the Congress leadership has made a move to stem the rot within the party in Meghalaya. The Meghalaya unit of the Congress has been divided into two camps since the party leadership appointed Shillong MP Vincent H. Pala as its president a month ago. The dissident camp is said to be led by former Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Mukul M. Sangma. Senior Congress leaders are likely to meet Dr. Sangma and Mr. Pala in New Delhi by October 4 to iron out the differences between the two leaders ahead of the bypolls to three Assembly seats on October 30. The seats are Mawphlang, Mawryngkneng and Rajabala. “I will be travelling to Delhi on Sunday for resolving the issues,” Dr. Sangma told journalists in Meghalaya capital Shillong, trashing speculations that he was set to quit the Congress and join the Trinamool Congress along with 13 Congress MLAs. “The assumption about our leaving the party is too premature,” he said. Differences within the Congress in Meghalaya became apparent after Dr. Sangma said he was not consulted before the party leadership made Mr. Pala the State unit president. Apart from avoiding a function to mark Mr. Pala’s formal anointment, Dr. Sangma skipped a programme in which five former Congress leaders were re-inducted. These five were known to be his critics. Speculations about his quitting the Congress were later triggered by his meeting with Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata on September 21. Dr. Sangma said it was merely a “courtesy call”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-put-meghalaya-house-in-order/article36801269.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||7 out of 106 names for HC judges cleared: CJI||President Kovind commended the legal service authorities for reaching out to the poorest in the country. He emphasised the need to have more women lawyers participating in legal aid services to bring legal relief to more women. “As a country, our aim is to graduate from ‘women development’ to ‘women-led development’. Therefore, increasing the number of women in National Legal Services Institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries,” the President said. The CJI said socio-economic growth would be impossible to achieve without equal access to justice. “Legal awareness is key to equal access to justice... Quality of democracy lies in the quality of justice rendered. Healthy democracy needs a vibrant judiciary,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-of-106-names-from-collegium-cleared-cji/article36801270.ece
03 October 2021||United Nations,||I got Covishield, I’ve survived: UNGA chief||The President of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly Abdulla Shahid has said that he received two doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured in India, as have a “large portion” of other countries around the world. “On vaccines, that’s a very technical question you have asked me. I got Covishield from India, I’ve got the two doses. I don’t know how many countries would say that Covishield is acceptable or not, but a large portion of the countries have got Covishield,” Mr. Shahid said at his first press conference here on October 1. He was responding to a question on recognition of vaccines by various countries. “And I’ve survived. But let someone else, a medical person make that call, not me,” he added with a laugh. India has exported over 66 million vaccine doses to nearly 100 countries through grants, commercial shipments and the COVAX facility. The Maldives, home country of Mr. Shahid, was among the first nations to receive the India-made vaccines in January when 1,00,000 doses of Covishield were dispatched to Male. The U.K. had initially refused to recognise Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. However, following India’s strong criticism of the decision, the U.K. on September 22 amended its new guidelines and included the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-got-covishield-ive-survived-unga-chief/article36801300.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bodies of Navy men recovered||The mortal remains of four of the five missing Navy personnel were recovered on Saturday. The five personnel from a 20-member expedition team went missing after being hit by an avalanche while attempting to summit Mt. Trishul in Uttarakhand. “All out efforts continue to locate the fifth naval climber and one sherpa,” the Navy said. The four personnel are Lt. Cdr. Rajnikant Yadav, Lt. Cdr. Yogesh Tiwari, Lt. Cdr. Anant Kukreti and Master Chief Petty Officer MCPO II Hari Om. “Deeply anguished by the tragic death of four Navy personnel who were part of the Navy mountaineering expedition to Mt. Trishul. The nation has not only lost precious young lives but also courageous soldiers in this tragedy,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter. “My thoughts are with their families in this hour of tragedy. Praying for early locating of the remaining team members,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bodies-of-navy-men-recovered/article36801263.ece
03 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam MLA detained for statement||The Assam police on Saturday detained Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed for his alleged provocative statement on the killing of eight Assamese youth in Darrang district during the peak of the anti-foreigners Assam Agitation in 1983. He had spoken out in the context of a violent eviction drive on September 23 in which two persons, including a minor, were killed in police firing. A senior police officer said Mr. Ahmed was picked up from his official residence in the Dispur area of Guwahati. “The MLA has been detained and could be arrested,” he said. The State Congress had served Mr. Ahmed a show-cause notice after his statement had triggered outrage. “…Despite holding a responsible position as an MLA, you have time and again given statements in media and in public forums against party policies and matters with communal overtones having great propensity to destroy the social harmony of our State,” the show-cause notice read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-mla-detained-for-statement/article36801606.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches property worth Rs. 190 cr.||The Enforcement Directorate has attached a residential building worth Rs. 190.62 crore in an ongoing probe against Sanjay Singal, the former chairman-cum-managing director of Bhushan Power & Steel Limited (BPSL), and others. The property is located at Ceejay House in Mumbai’s Worli. The agency has so far attached assets worth Rs. 4,420.16 crore in the case alleging bank fraud. The ED investigation is based on a First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 5, 2019, against BPSL and others. According to the agency, the accused persons entered into a criminal conspiracy with unknown bank officials to cheat the financial institutions. The funds taken from the banks in the form of various credit facilities were allegedly diverted through companies and shell entities. The company deliberately defaulted on repayment of bank loans. It also claimed inadmissible credit with respect to the Central Value Added Tax, as alleged. The accused did not use the loans for the stated purposes, submitted forged documents and falsified the accounts to cheat the banks, causing huge losses to them. In the CBI FIR, it was also alleged that BPSL had taken credit facilities from 33 different banks/financial institutions and the outstanding defaulted amount as on January 30, 2018, stood at Rs. 47,204 crore. Such loan accounts remained irregular continuously and were finally declared non-performing assets (NPA). The lead lender, Punjab National Bank, classified the account of BPSL as an NPA on December 31, 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-190-crore-mumbai-property/article36801271.ece
03 October 2021||Pune,||‘Cong. doesn’t run on Raut’s opinions’||After Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the confusion within the Congress ranks would persist unless the party quickly appointed a full-time national president, senior Congress leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan on Saturday said his party did not run on Mr. Raut’s opinions. Mr. Raut had said the “headless state” that the party, the Sena’s ally in Maharashtra, now found itself in was only benefiting the BJP, which was exploiting the leadership vacuum. “That is his [Mr. Raut’s] opinion... Our party does not run by his opinions. The Congress’s problems are its internal matter,” said Mr. Chavan in Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-doesnt-run-on-rauts-opinions/article36801278.ece
03 October 2021||Srinagar,||Gunmen kill civilian in Srinagar||Unknown gunmen shot dead a civilian and injured another in two separate incidents in Srinagar on Saturday. The first incident took place around 5:30 p.m. in Karan Nagar when a gunman opened fire at Majid Ahmad Gojri. He died in hospital. In the second incident, Mohammad Shafi Dar was shot in Batamaloo. He is being treated in a hospital nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gunmen-kill-civilian-in-srinagar/article36801286.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol, diesel rise to new record highs as rates hiked again||Petrol and diesel prices soared to new highs across the country on Saturday after rates were hiked again by 25 paise and 30 paise a litre, respectively. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to Rs. 102.14 a litre and to Rs. 108.19 in Mumbai, according to a notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel prices touched Rs. 90.47 a litre in Delhi and Rs. 98.16 a litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from State to State depending on taxes.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-diesel-rise-to-new-record-highs-as-rates-hiked-again/article36801285.ece
03 October 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata slams release of water from Jharkhand reservoirs, seeks compensation||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday slammed the Jharkhand government and the Damodar Valley Corporation for release of water from reservoirs into West Bengal, causing floods in southern districts of the State. She said the West Bengal government would seek compensation from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for the damages sustained. The Opposition BJP in the State said that Ms. Banerjee was trying to cover up the incompetence of her government by shifting the blame on others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-slams-release-of-water-from-jharkhand-reservoirs-seeks-compensation/article36801290.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. detects unaccounted transactions of over Rs. 500 crore by real estate group in Gujarat||The Income Tax Department’s searches on a real estate developer group and its brokers in Ahmedabad have led to the detection of unaccounted transactions of over Rs. 500 crore. The raids were carried at on 22 residential and business premises. Documents showing unaccounted investment of more than Rs. 200 crore in land and unaccounted cash receipts from sale of land amounting to over Rs. 100 crore have been found and seized so far, according to the agency. The agency also seized Rs. 1 crore in cash and jewellery worth Rs. 98 lakh during the searches, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-detects-unaccounted-transactions-of-over-rs-500-crore-by-real-estate-group-in-gujarat/article36801293.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation, TNPCB launch drive against plastic bags||The Greater Chennai Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board have launched a campaign to promote alternatives to plastic bags. Principal Secretary to Department of Environment, Climate Change and Forest, Supriya Sahu and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi launched the campaign by distributing jute bags at Koyambedu market on Saturday. About 5,000 bags were distributed on the occasion. Ms. Sahu tweeted: “While speaking to traders at the Koyambedu fruit and vegetables market, I emphasised on the need to get rid of disposable plastic bags and bring back our traditional yellow cloth bags or Manjai Pai as we call them in T.N. We all are eating plastic equal to the size of a credit card every week.” Mr. Bedi said civic officials had been directed to seize plastic bags and impose fines. “We want all shopkeepers to use only paper bags and cloth bags so that single use plastic is avoided across shops. We have conducted a series of meetings with traders, manufacturers of plastic covers and the general trading organisations. We have exhorted the traders of Koyambedu to avoid plastics and use cloth bags to give fruits and vegetables,” he said. “We have asked our zonal health teams to visit markets such as T. Nagar, Purasawalkam and Anna Nagar and check whether the shops were using plastic bags, and if so, seize these and fine the shops. Right now, our mode will be more persuasive rather than punitive and we will request for the involvement of the community in the drive against plastics,” Mr. Bedi said. The Corporation is planning to involve more NGOs in the programme. Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said the officials were focussed on pricing of cloth bags and other alternatives to plastic bags. “The city generates more than 1,000 tonnes of plastic waste every day. Most of the waste is recycled. We have planned to reduce the plastic waste in dumps. The initiative by the Centre before December 2022 will be crucial in the campaign against plastics. We have adopted various methods to recycle plastics.” The civic body will take up initiatives to prevent plastic pollution in the sea and rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-tnpcb-launch-drive-against-plastic-bags/article36801682.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,578 fresh COVID-19 infections||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to fall gradually in Tamil Nadu — 1,578 people tested positive in the State on Saturday. With Erode’s daily count dropping below 100 after months, only three districts — Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu — recorded 100-plus fresh infections. Chennai continued to account for the most number of cases, with 188 people testing positive. Coimbatore, where cases continued to marginally drop, followed with 163 cases, while Chengalpattu recorded 107. There were 95 cases in Erode and 94 in Thanjavur. With this, the State’s tally touched 26,66,964. Another 24 people (eight in private hospitals and 16 in government facilities) succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,627. As many as 14 districts recorded fatalities. These included Chennai, where five people died, and Kancheepuram that logged three deaths. There was no death in Coimbatore and Erode. Another 1,607 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,14,291. At present, there are 17,046 active cases in the State. Coimbatore’s active caseload fell below 2,000 — 1,990 people are undergoing treatment in the district. As many as 1,937 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in Chennai. Erode and Chengalpattu have 1,151 and 1,096 active cases respectively. As many as 1,51,855 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,72,99,526. Vaccination update A total of 1,20,433 people were inoculated on Saturday, taking the coverage in government centres to 4,54,27,548. Those who got the jabs included 75,417 people in the 18-44 age group and 33,214 people aged 45 to 59. Vaccination was held in 2,577 sessions. The cumulative coverage in private vaccination centres stood at 25,21,688.  A total of 1,20,433 people were inoculated in the State on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1578-fresh-covid-19-infections/article36801697.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rising number of social gatherings worries officials||With the threat of a third wave of COVID-19 looming large, the civic authorities are concerned that the city is witnessing a large number of socio-cultural events and religious and marriage functions, in violation of the norms stipulated by the State government. A senior official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said that while a team of civic officials has been conducting surprise inspections and levying fines, this has failed to deter large gatherings at marriages and religious and socio-cultural events. People seem to ignore the threat of these events turning into super spreaders, leading to COVID-19 clusters and eventually a possible third wave of the pandemic. The senior civic official reiterated that the State government had made some relaxations, mainly allowing cinemas to function with 50% capacity. No entertainment and cultural events were permitted in any community halls. However, beaches (except Sundays), religious places (to remain closed from Fridays to Sundays), hostels, swimming pools that too only for sports competitions, creche, zoos, and lodges, are allowed to function. The Government Order of September 11 clearly states that “public gatherings in religious festivals/consecrations, political, socio-cultural and religion related congregation, which were already prohibited, will continue to be prohibited up to October 31, in order to avoid super spreader events.” The civic body is concerned about several marriage organisers and other individual functions violating the norms of allowing more than 50 guests. The civic body advises organisers of events give takeaway rather than serving food in halls. The civic official said dining together could cause COVID-19 infection as the guests would not be wearing masks. The civic body has created a separate portal for marriage halls, hotels and community halls, to register all the functions, and it deputes civic officials to conduct surprise checks. The Corporation wants the residents to adhere to the State government norms to minimise the impact of another wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.  People seem to ignore the threat of these events turning into super spreaders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-number-of-social-gatherings-worries-officials/article36801688.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery, diamonds stolen from house in Anna Nagar West||Burglars broke into the house of a businessman in Anna Nagar West and took away 70 sovereigns of gold jewellery, diamonds and silver articles on Friday night in Thirumangalam police station limits. The crime was committed in the house of D. Elangovan, 54, who runs a transport business. Mr. Elangovan, his wife Sasikala and their son Hariharan were asleep on the first floor of the house. They were shocked to find one of the bedrooms on the ground floor ransacked. The lock of a cupboard was broken and gold and diamond jewellery and silver articles had been stolen. Mr. Elangovan said 70 sovereigns of gold jewellery, diamonds worth Rs. 15 lakh and silver articles worth Rs. 4 lakh were stolen. Senior police officers visited the spot and held a preliminary inquiry. Fingerprints were lifted from the crime scene. The police are studying CCTV footage and have launched an investigation to trace the burglars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-diamonds-stolen-from-house-in-anna-nagar-west/article36801684.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 a litre||The price of petrol crossed Rs. 100 a litre across the State on Friday and Saturday. The last time this happened in the State was in the last week of June, and the price crossed Rs. 100 in the first week of July in outlets in core Chennai city. Prices of fuel and auto gas differ from place to place due to transportation costs. The price of petrol was Rs. 100.24 a litre in Mamallapuram, Rs. 100.98 in Marakanam, Rs. 101.83 in Cuddalore, Rs. 102.11 in Chidambaram, Rs. 100.37 in Madurai, Rs. 100.24 in Tiruchi and Rs. 100.54 in Salem. In Chennai, the cost of petrol was Rs. 99.80 a litre, diesel Rs. 95.02 and XP95 Rs. 103.37. On Saturday, oil marketing companies (OMCs) increased petrol price by 22 paise a litre. Petrol prices have been going up over the last couple of weeks, neutralising the reduction of Rs. 3 a litre announced by the State government in August. Auto LPG prices have gone up by around 25 paise per kilo since October 1. In September, petrol price went up on two days and went down on one day and at the same time, diesel prices went up on five days and came down on one day finishing up with an increase of Rs. 1.07 that month. Oil industry sources explained that crude prices were going up due to a combination of factors. The demand for oil had gone up worldwide but at the same time, production had been hit in some countries. The situation was expected to stabilise by this month end with oil producers keeping up their supply agreements. “Diesel has never touched the three figure mark, and if it comes to that, I think the Centre should intervene. However, despite high prices, OMCs are witnessing an increase in consumption of petrol,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-a-litre/article36801691.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vanniyars are the most backward among MBCs’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss has told Madras High Court that Vanniakula Kshatriyas are the most backward among the Most Backward Communities (MBCs), and therefore, the State legislature has provided 10.5% internal reservation in education and government employment to help them rise from the depths of backwardness. He made the submission in a counter affidavit, filed through his counsel K. Balu, to a batch of cases filed in the court challenging the constitutionality of a law passed by the State legislature, just hours before the model code of conduct came into force in February this year, providing internal reservation within the 20% meant for MBCs. Claiming to have been fighting for the cause since the 1980s, the party leader said it was due to his consistent efforts that the Vanniakula Khastriya (including Vanniar, Vanniya, Vannia Gounder, Gounder or Kander, Padayachi, Palli and Agnikula Kshatriya) communities were now able to seize the opportunities of reservation commensurate to their population. Dr. Ramadoss said the writ petitioners before the court could not attribute malice or mala fide either to the legislature or the legislative functions of the State just because the law providing 10.5% internal reservation to Vanniakula Kshatriyas was passed on the eve of the Assembly election held this year. ‘No political motive’ “The very fact that the present successor government in office (led by the DMK) has issued orders to implement the provisions of the Special Act 8 of 2021 passed by the previous government (led by the AIADMK) proves that there is no political motive in enacting the impugned Act 8 of 2021,” his counter affidavit read. The PMK leader argued that a law could be challenged only on the grounds of legislative competence or alleged violation of fundamental rights. The present petitioners could not succeed on either of the grounds since the State legislature was fully competent to pass the law and there was no violation of any fundamental right due to the enactment, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyars-are-the-most-backward-among-mbcs/article36801698.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor pays tributes to Gandhi||Governor R.N. Ravi and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday paid floral tributes to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Kamarajar Salai, on the occasion of his 153rd birth anniversary. They also watched a bhajan and charkha spinning by members of the Chennai Sarvodhaya Sangam. Later, the Governor visited the Khadi Gramodyog Bhavan, Chennai, where he inaugurated khadi rebate sales and purchased a Thanjavur plate and a statue of Lord Nataraja. He highlighted the historical significance of khadi. After this, Mr. Ravi paid floral tributes to the Gandhi statue on the Raj Bhavan campus. Secretary to Governor Anandrao V. Patil and other staff at the Raj Bhavan took part. Later, the Governor inaugurated a three-day exhibition, highlighting the dedicated life and teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, and the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ in Koyambedu, conducted by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai, under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He released two books titled Gandhi Ordained in South Africa , written by J.N. Uppal, and The Story of India’s Partition , written by Raguvendra Tanwar. First copies were received by former IAS officers D.K. Oza and Naresh Gupta respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-pays-tributes-to-gandhi/article36801712.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State government procuring substandard wheelchairs, says PIL plea||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in the Madras High Court complaining that the State government had been procuring and supplying substandard and defective battery-operated wheelchairs since 2015 to those suffering from muscular dystrophy and tetraplegia. The case filed by Spinal Injured Persons Association, a registered body, has been listed for admission before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu on Monday. The association wants the government restrained from procuring the wheelchairs without conducting quality check. In an affidavit filed through its counsel E. Vijay Anand, the association president D. Gnana Bharathi said the government had introduced the scheme of supplying battery operated wheelchairs in 2015. Since then, a private company based in Bengaluru had been bagging the contract periodically. Quality check Alleging that the wheelchairs were not of good quality and there was no mechanism in place to conduct a quality check, the litigant said the beneficiaries of the scheme were also finding it difficult to get the wheelchairs repaired since the company had not established proper service centres. Though these issues were brought to the notice of the Commissioner for the Welfare of the Differently Abled, the government continued to procure the wheelchairs from the same manufacturer and there did not appear to be an end to the woes faced by the differently abled, the litigant association lamented. Further, it was brought to the notice of the court that people suffering from spinal cord problems could be categorised into two. Those who suffer from disability in the cervical region and those suffering disability in thoracic and lumbar region. While the first category required wheelchairs, the second would require scooters. Nevertheless, without giving attention to the specific needs of the different categories, the government had been uniformly distributing wheelchairs, the association said and insisted upon constituting an expert body for better implementation of the schemes. The association also sought a direction to the government and the private company to take back all wheelchairs that had been supplied already, conduct a complete overhaul and then hand them over with life time warranty. It also sought monetary compensation for the mental agony undergone due to use of substandard wheelchairs.  The beneficiaries of the scheme are also finding it difficult to get the wheelchairs repaired since the company has not established proper service centresSpinal Injured Persons Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-procuring-substandard-wheelchairs-says-pil-plea/article36801962.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins on underground station of Metro Rail at Royapettah||For patients going to the Government Royapettah Hospital or shoppers heading to the Express Avenue, it may become simpler as an underground Chennai Metro Rail station is coming up here as part of the phase II project. The station will come up just in front of the Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA) building. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the building has been demolished and they have taken over a portion of the land on this premises for building the station. “In this space, we will construct the entry/exit structure, lifts and escalators and ventilation shaft. We will need 654 sq. m. of this, we will permanently use 239 sq. m. for these facilities and the remaining 415 sq. m. will be returned to YMCA once we complete the construction. The 415 sq. m. will be needed for keeping construction material and carrying out the work,” an official said. This station is part of the Madhavaram-SIPCOT stretch. Once completed, it will ensure a smooth travel for commuters shuttling between northern and southern parts of the city and avoid traffic congestion. Asir Pandian, general secretary of YMCA Madras, said only a part of the land had been taken over and the other activities on the premises such as cricket, tennis and archery were continued as usual as CMRL had not made the entire premises out of bounds for the public. Building pulled down “An old building and guest rooms were pulled down because we wanted to carry out development work too and we thought this would be the right time. We are glad a station is coming up here as many can easily travel to YMCA in future,” he said. But sources said since the road was narrow, the CMRL has to meticulously plan and execute construction and traffic planning in such a way that unnecessary snarls were not caused, and access to the hospital remained clear as several ambulances used the road every day. Barricades have been stacked on the site and in a few weeks, construction of a diaphragm wall, a box-like structure raised before tunnelling work, will be taken up. Meanwhile, the CMRL has engaged workers to check if the various utility pipelines fall in the tunnel alignment and shift them before starting the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-on-metro-underground-station-at-royapettah/article36801687.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consortium urges Tangedco not to measure harmonics until new norms come into force||The Power Quality (PQ) Welfare Consortium, a think tank working on power quality, has written to the Tangedco chairman urging him to instruct distribution regions to stop measurement of harmonics until the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) notifies the new regulations and measurement methodology. Harmonics are generated by any load that draws power disproportionate to the voltage applied, and affects the quality of power supplied. Earlier, the norms on harmonic discharge were applicable to power systems above 33 kV. The TNERC has proposed an amendment to the regulations in the supply code stipulating harmonic limits to comply with the regulations of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), which will be applicable to all HT services from 11 kV and above. “Of late, it seems certain Meter Relay Testing Engineers of Tangedco are taking harmonic measurements in HT services. The CEA has revised the harmonic regulations in February 2019 and the TNERC is yet to notify harmonic regulations and the measuring methodology,” A.D. Thirumoorthy, representing PQ Welfare Consortium, said in his letter. “Hence it may not be legally correct to measure harmonics in HT services based on old regulations with old limits. It is not correct to measure harmonics with unapproved instruments which Tangedco has at present,” he said. Measuring harmonics at this juncture would create unnecessary anxiety and mental agony to consumers. As HT industries were recovering from the pandemic, it would not be appropriate to create unnecessary panic among the HT consumers with their irrelevant method of measurement and obsolete model instruments, Mr. Thirumoorthy said. As per a draft amendment proposed by the TNERC, industries might face a penalty of up to 10% of their consumption charges, if they did not maintain discharge of harmonics within the prescribed level by installing filters.  It is not correct to measure harmonics with unapproved instruments which Tangedco has at present A.D. Thirumoorthy PQ Welfare Consortium||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consortium-urges-tangedco-not-to-measure-harmonics-until-new-norms-come-into-force/article36801961.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three drown in sea||Three persons were feared drowned off the Marina since Friday. Two bodies were yet to be traced while one body washed ashore. Nirmal Kumar, 21, a college student in Tondiarpet, accompanied his friends to the beach on Saturday. While he was playing with his friend, a strong wave dragged him away. After searching for sometime, his friends called the police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. In another incident, Gokul, a polytechnic student from Namakkal, drowned in the sea. A group of fishermen ventured into the sea and searched for him. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel too joined the search in rubber boats. His body washed ashore later. In the third case, Rohit Kumar, 20, a migrant worker from Bihar, was washed away while playing with his friends on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-drown-in-sea/article36801686.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ammonia leak from ice factory causes panic||Tension prevailed in Kasimedu for a couple of hours on Saturday afternoon following the leak of ammonia from an ice manufacturing unit. Satheeshkumar, whose parents run a small shop near the ice factory, said he saw smoke around 3 p.m. but thought it was from another unit. By 3.30 p.m., people ran out of their homes coughing and teary eyed. M.D. Dayalan of the Indian Fishermen Association said the incident underlined the need for a fire station inside the fishing harbour. Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board rushed to the spot. Sources said the unit had been shut down and the leak had happened during cleaning. An officer from Fire and Rescue Services said, “Our personnel from fire stations in Royapuram, Tondiarpet and High Court were rushed to the spot. We fixed the leak and did cooling process.” Senior police officials remained at the spot till the situation was brought under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammonia-leak-from-ice-factory-causes-panic-in-kasimedu/article36801692.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH starts screening initiative||The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has launched an initiative to screen more than 1,000 of its workers at the recently inaugurated ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ clinic to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday. Hospital dean E. Theranirajan said there were 1,039 hospital workers — 75 nursing assistants (33 women and 42 men), 792 workers and supervisors of Krystal agency that carries out the outsourcing services and 172 security personnel at the hospital. “It is important to ensure the health of our hospital workers. On the first day, we screened 116 Krystal workers. They underwent general check-up and screening for hypertension, diabetes, oral cancer, breast cancer and cervical cancer,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgggh-starts-screening-initiative/article36801694.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for stabbing youth||Two youths were arrested for allegedly stabbing another due to previous enmity in Kondugaiyur police station limits on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Manikandan, 19, of Ezhil Nagar, Kodungaiyur who had been working in a private firm. On Friday night, he was walking home when three youths riding a bike, attacked him with knives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-stabbing-youth/article36801685.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people of Kallar settlement inside ATR demand homestead patta||More than 20 families of Kadar tribe, who were evicted from their traditional dwellings at Kallar settlement inside the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in August 2019, continue to struggle to get an alternative land in the forest which they are entitled to get under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. With their demand unmet for over two years, around 100 tribal people started a protest at Thaimudi near Valparai on Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday. Holding a portrait of Gandhiji, they marched to the protest venue from an abandoned estate quarters at Thaimudi where they are staying since August, 2019. Around 90 members of Kadar tribe were evicted from Kallar settlement in ATR on August 20, 2019. Most of their traditional dwellings in the settlement were razed in a landslip after which they erected temporary shelters at a nearby location. The Forest Department removed the shelters with the support of the police and Revenue officials. A total of 23 families were shifted to an unused quarters of a tea estate at Thaimudi near Valparai where they have been since then. Following the eviction, the tribal community sought for an alternative location namely Theppakulamedu where they wanted to have patta issued for homestead under the FRA. They also passed a resolution in a grama sabha held on March 6, 2020. However, authorities of the ATR informed them that the application for homestead patta at Theppakulamedu could not be processed as it falls under ‘critical tiger habitat’. Pollachi Sub-Collector Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao and M.G. Ganesan, Deputy Director of the ATR, Pollachi division, held talks with the protestors. They asked them to withdraw the protest. Rajalakshmi Jayapal, a tribeswoman, said the protest will continue till Monday. “Authorities seek more time to process our requests, which is genuine. But we have been staying away from our homeland since August 2019,” she said. Officials with the Forest and Revenue Departments claimed that there were technical issues in granting homestead patta for the tribals at Theppakulamedu. Last year, 130 people from Kallar and Udumanparai settlements staged the peaceful protest on the Independence Day pressing same demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-people-of-kallar-settlement-inside-atr-demand-homestead-patta/article36801734.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Khadi sales target set at Rs. 2.58 crore||The Khadi and Village Industries Board is looking at Rs. 2.58 crore sales revenue in Coimbatore district during 2021-2022. According to a press release, the sales last year was for Rs. 2.25 crore. Coimbatore district has four Khadi Kraft outlets - on Avinashi Road, RS Puram, Periyanaikenpalayam, and Pollachi. District Collector G.S. Sameeran inaugurated the special sales for Deepavali and Gandhi Jayanthi on Saturday. The outlets will offer discounts during the special sales. Assistant Director of Khadi and Village Industries, Coimbatore district, P.N. Giri Ayyappan said special sales counters will be opened at all union offices shortly to promote Deepavali sales. Government staff and teachers can purchase the goods and pay in instalments. “We will start putting up counters from next week for five to 10 days in a place,” he said. The special sales with discount offers at the Khadi outlets will continue till the end of this financial year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-sales-target-set-at-rs-258-crore/article36801720.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rescued tiger cub to be released back into forest||The Forest Department has decided to release the tiger cub that was captured by the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) authorities from an estate near Valparai some days ago back into forest. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj told The Hindu on Saturday the department planned to set up an enclosure in natural environment at Valparai where the cub can be taken care and reintroduced into the wild. “Ideally all national parks and tiger reserves should have such facility for reintroducing lost animals into the wild. We do not have have such a facility as of now. Instructions have been given to the Field Director and Deputy Field Director of ATR to set up one such facility,” he said. According to him, the fenced facility, a large enclosure in natural environment, will have arrangements where the cub will learn to hunt naturally. Mr. Niraj was in touch with his counterpart in Kerala to get more details of a project made for the reintroduction of a tiger cub back into the wild at the Periyar Tiger Reserve. “If required, we will seek the expertise of the Kerala Forest Department,” he said. Weak condition The male tiger cub aged around eight months was captured by ATR staff from a tea estate at Thaimudi near Valparai on the night of September 28, after it was found roaming in very weak condition outside the forest for two days. After capture, the cub was shifted to the animal rescue centre at Rottikadai near Valparai where it is currently being taken care. It had a wound sustained from a porcupine quill and a few aberrations on body. S. Ramasubramanian, Field Director of the ATR, said that the cub has regained health and it was active as of Saturday. “It has started eating well. The wound and aberrations it had have healed. Veterinarians, who have examined the cub, said that it is less likely to have internal wounds as it is excreting normally,” he said. He said that the department has identified a place at Manambolly forest range to set up an in situ enclosure for the rewilding programme. The cub is currently kept in a cage at and given meat as feed. A veterinarian from Valparai is making regular visits to the animal rescue centre at Rottikadai to check its health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescued-tiger-cub-to-be-released-back-into-forest-in-valparai/article36801727.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat on October 11||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct PF Near You and Pension Adalat on October 11 through webinar. According to a press release, the meeting will be held for subscribers and trade union from 11 a.m. to noon, employers from noon to 1 p.m. and for pensioners. from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Those who want to take part should send the grievance, PF account number, UAN number, name of the organisation, etc along with the mobile number and email ID to pghs.rocbe@epfindia.giv.in before October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat-on-october-11/article36801730.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special NMR train operated to mark Gandhi Jayanti||Southern Railway operated a one-way special train on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section from Mettupalayam to Udhagamandalam to mark Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday. A release said the Railway Board planned to operate this special train as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations for the 75th year of India’s Independence. NMR Deputy Director P. Sathesh Saravanan flagged off the from Mettupalayam Railway Station at 9.10 a.m. Passengers were given caps bearing the words Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav as a memento, according to the release. Photo exhibition Young Indians (Yi), Coimbatore, and Kumaraguru Institutions organised photo exhibition of Mahatma Gandhi at the Coimbatore International Airport to mark the occasion. The display, ‘Coimbatore pays tribute to Mahatma’, includes photos and facts on Gandhiji under the titles: remembering 100 years of the Gandhian dhoti, Gandhi’s tribute to Tamil, and Gandhi in Coimbatore. The exhibit will be at the airport terminal for the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-nmr-train-operated-to-mark-gandhi-jayanti/article36801722.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gram sabha meetings held||Gram Sabha meetings were conducted across Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday after remaining suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In Coimbatore, District Collector G.S. Sameeran participated in the gram sabha meeting at Rayaruthupathi village in Naickenpalayam village panchayat.. Issues pertaining to the village such as COVID-19 preventive measures, rainwater harvesting, implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana , the Central government’s housing scheme were discussed during the meeting. Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth participated in the meeting at Kodangipalayam village panchayat. A section of residents demande action against stone quarries that were operating without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gram-sabha-meetings-held/article36801724.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 163 COVID-19 cases||A total of 163 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, registering a decline from Friday's 170 cases. The Health Department said that 198 persons recovered from the disease in the district on Saturday. It had 1,990 active cases. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 1.6 % on Friday when 10,811 swab samples were examined and 170 persons tested positive. Tiruppur district reported 79 fresh cases, taking its tally to 93,188 cases. The overall toll remained as 955 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 862 active cases and 92 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-163-covid-19-cases/article36801725.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A man aged around 60 was found dead near SIHS Colony on Saturday. The Singanallur police said on information that a body of a man in decomposing state was found near the compound wall of Coimbatore airport at Vettaikaran Kovil Street at SIHS Colony, a police team rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police have registered a case of unnatural death and started investigation to identify the deceased and the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article36801728.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tie-up with Chennai Mobiles||Indo-Israeli cyber security enterprise Safehouse Tech has tied up with The Chennai Mobiles, a multi-brand mobile retail store in South India. According to a press release, Safehouse will display its one click mobile application that secures a mobile phone from any sophisticated cyber-attacks. Customers of The Chennai Mobiles, numbering more than 100 outlets, will have an easy access to the Safehouse Technology, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tie-up-with-chennai-mobiles/article36801729.ece
03 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Aasaan Charitable Trust have provided grocery kits and sanitary napkins to more than 50 students at Madhampatti Government School and Kanuvai Government schools. These are provided to the students every month. On October 2, the Trust provided saplings to the public at RS Puram, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36801718.ece
03 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements for fourth mega vaccination drive reviewed||District Collector H. Krishnanunni on Friday reviewed the arrangements for fourth mega vaccination camp in the district. The camp would be held on Sunday and would be set up at 577 places in the district, Mr. Krishnanunni said in a release. He said that the district was targeting to administer 95,000 vaccine doses in the fourth mega drive. School principals were advised to ensure all basic arrangements for the camp and booth level officers were advised to distribute at least 200 tokens in the locality for vaccination. Local bodies were advised to conduct necessary awareness among the public for vaccination and about the camp. Volunteers and college students could be engaged for data entry and for bringing the public to the camp, he said. The District Industries Centre and the Joint Director of Industrial Safety were advised to ensure that all workers in industrial units got vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-for-fourth-mega-vaccination-drive-reviewed/article36801793.ece
03 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||95 new cases in Erode||The daily load of positive cases dropped below 100 as 95 cases were reported in Erode on Saturday. As per bulletin, the district has 1,151 active cases. In Salem, 55 cases were reported. According to health officials, 51 cases were indigenous and 15 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 53 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. A total of 34 indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and in Krishnagiri, 31 indigenous cases were reported. As per bulletin, three deaths were reported in the region, one each in Salem, Namakkal and Krishnagiri districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/95-new-cases-in-erode/article36801789.ece
03 October 2021||Kandamanur (Sivaganga),TAMIL NADU||Renovated Khadi complex inaugurated||Former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha MP P. Chidambaram inaugurated a renovated Khadi industrial complex here on Saturday. Minister for Handlooms R. Gandhi; Minister for Rural Development KR. Periyakaruppan; Sivaganga MP Karthi Chidambaram; Principal Secretary (Handlooms) Apurva; and Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy were present. The khadi complex that was opened in 1988 had gone sick in the last 10 years and it was renovated by the State government at a cost of Rs. 45.80 lakh. The industrial complex has several units manufacturing soap oil, bathing soap, footwear, modern loom, carpentry and blacksmith units among various units. It gives employment to 105 persons, including 85 women, and indirect jobs to 150 persons. Mr. Chidambaram said that heavy units that come up at hundreds of crores of rupees can give jobs only to limited persons. Though they benefit the nation, the poor are not benefited by them. The poor will be benefited only by small scale units. That is why when Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme and crop insurance schemes were introduced, they were first brought to Sivaganga district, Mr. Chidambaram said. Mr. Gandhi unveiled a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi and paid floral tributes on the 153rd birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. Mr. Periyakaruppan inaugurated the khadi sale on the occasion. A target of Rs. 58.80 crore has been fixed for sale of Khadi products in the district in the current year. In Ramanathapuram, District Revenue Officer A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan, who holds additional charge of Collector, inaugurated the Khadi sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovated-khadi-complex-inaugurated/article36801781.ece
03 October 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Realtor’s abductors held||Police have arrested six persons who allegedly abducted a realtor and took 48 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs. 12 lakh in cash as ransom to release him. According to SP S. Jayakumar, realtor M. Saravanakumar, 40, of Bharathi Nagar in Kovilpatti went to Tirunelveli in his car on September 9 for registration of land. When the car was crossing Sannadhu Puthukkudi under Kayathar police station limits, driver M. Sethupathi, 31, of Manthithoppu in Kovilpatti stopped to answer nature’s call. Three unidentified persons entered the car and robbed a gold chain, gold bracelet and Rs. 20,000 in cash from Mr. Saravanakumar at knifepoint. They also used his cellphone to contact his father Murugesa Pandian and asked him to give Rs. 1 crore as ransom for his son’s release. When Mr. Murugesa Pandian told them that he had only Rs. 12 lakh in cash, they asked him to bring the cash and 50 sovereigns of gold ornaments and place it in a roadside bush near Sannadhu Puthukkudi. When Mr. Murugesa Pandian did their bidding, two more persons, who were waiting at a distance with a bike, joined the trio. Before leaving the spot with the ransom, the gang threatened Mr. Saravanakumar of dire consequences if he filed a complaint with the police. After the victim filed a complaint with Kayathar police on September 30, a special team was formed to nab the kidnappers. During investigation, police found that the mastermind behind the abduction was the driver, Sethupathi, who told the police that he orchestrated the crime with the help of his friends S. Sangili Pandian, 19, and M. Selvam, 38 of Kaappulingampatti near Kovilpatti, P. Madasamy alias Gopi, 35, of Kadalaiyoor Road in Kovilpatti, K. Ponraj, 33, of Annai Teresa Nagar in Kovilpatti and N. Pon Karthik, 24, of Bungalow Street in Kovilpatti. Police arrested all six abductors involved in the crime and recovered 40 sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs. 6 lakh in cash and a new bike that was purchased with a portion of the booty. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/realtors-abductors-held/article36801738.ece
03 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for poultry technology course||The College of Poultry Production and Management, Hosur has invited applications for the four-year B.Tech programme in poultry technology. According to a release, the course would offer employment opportunities at poultry farms, hatcheries, meat processing industries and related sectors. The last date for submitting online application is October 8, 6 p.m. and for further details visit websitewww.tanuvas.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-poultry-technology-course/article36801788.ece
03 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin takes part in grama sabha meeting at Pappapatti||In a first, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday took part in the grama sabha meeting held at the Pappapatti reserved village panchayat near Usilampatti on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. Hundreds of people from the villages of Pappapatti, Mahadevanpatti, Paeyanpatti and Karayanpatti took part in the meeting held under a huge pandal outside the Ochandamman temple. As per the tradition, all the villagers were seated on a mat on the ground, even as the Chief Minister sat on a platform, along with panchayat president S. Muruganantham, vice-president Lakshmi, Secretary to the Chief Minister and former Madurai Collector T. Udhayachandran and the incumbent, S. Aneesh Sekhar. After panchayat secretary Thangapandi read out the agenda, the Chief Minister joined the elected representatives, officials and panchayat residents in taking a pledge to promote gender equality, work against female foeticide and infanticide and not to protect sexual predators. Later, Mr. Stalin interacted with the locals. A senior resident of the panchayat likened the Chief Minister’s visit to that of Lord Kallazhagar who liberated Mandugamuni from a curse. “The visit of the Chief Minister augurs well for our panchayat,” he said. Mr. Stalin enquired with a woman resident, Priya Asaithambi, whether the Rs. 4,000 assistance given by DMK government reached every household. She was all praise for the free bus service for women, but also pointed out that no free service was available from Pappapatti to Madurai. The Chief Minister ordered that this demand be fulfilled immediately, much to the cheer of the residents. Recalling the Father of the Nation’s dream of ‘grama rajyam’, Mr. Stalin said the real India was in the villages. Madurai soil had the pride of bringing about a dress revolution in the life of the Mahatma. The Chief Minister recalled how the elections were held to the four reserved panchayats of Pappapatti, Keeripatti and Nattarmangalam (Madurai district) and Kottakatchiyendal (Virudhunagar) after 10 years in 2006 when he was the Minister for Local Administration. “The elections were held to strengthen democracy. The then government gave Rs. 80 lakh to the panchayat and the DMK gave Rs. 20 lakh from its own funds,” he said. The Chief Minister said equality was the basis for development and no development was possible in a society without unity. “As the Mahatma said a good democracy should listen to the voice of the last person, I have come here to do the same,” he said. Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy was present.  Hundreds of people from the villages of Pappapatti, Mahadevanpatti, Paeyanpatti and Karayanpatti took part in the meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-takes-part-in-grama-sabha-at-pappapatti/article36801702.ece
03 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pappapatti on development track||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin announced a slew of development works for Pappapatti reserved panchayat, including new panchayat office building, ration shop, anganwadi and overhead tank, here on Saturday. Addressing the grama sabha meeting at the rural local body, Mr. Stalin said that a new panchayat office at a cost of Rs. 23.57 lakh under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme would be constructed at Pappapatti. A new building for anganwadi at Mahadevanpatti at a cost of Rs. 10.93 lakh and a ration shop at Pappapatti at a cost of Rs. 14.59 lakh would also been constructed. Basic amenities at the cremation yards in the villages of Pappapatti, Mahadevanpatti, Paeyanpatti and Karayanpatti would be provided at an outlay of Rs. 48 lakh. A new overhead tank with a capacity of 30,000 litres will come up at Pappapatti. A threshing plot will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh at Karayanpatti. The Chief Minister also announced provision of street lights and additional street lights in the panchayat. “I will monitor the progress of these works every week with the Collector,” Mr. Stalin said. Earlier, panchayat president S. Muruganantham, wanted the Government to make Pappapatti panchayat a model local body in the State. Local people raised several issues concerning the local body. Concrete lining for the 58-village canal scheme, assured irrigation through the canal and a new extension canal to feed four tanks around the panchayat were some of the demands raised by the residents. Among other demands were a playground in the locality, 10% reservation for denotified tribes people in government jobs and employment and a training centre for job aspirants. The residents generously appreciated Secretary to Chief Minister and former Madurai Collector T. Udhayachandran, who helped in restoring democratic set up in the reserved panchayat by ensuring proper election in 2006. Large number of police personnel was deployed at the venue anticipating a possible protest from denotified tribes against 10.5% internal reservation given to Vanniyars within MBC quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pappapatti-on-development-track/article36801786.ece
03 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain leaves deluge of problems in its wake||The recent heavy rain that lashed the city has left some of the roads inundated. Some of the affected areas are Naicker New Street and East Avani Moola Street near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. Waterlogging and slushy roads have left the residents exasperated. Shopkeepers and office-goers say the problem of waterlogging is persistent. “Due to lack of proper outlets, water gets stagnated on roads. The waterlogging results in mosquito breeding,” complains a resident. In some places, even the pavements submerged after the rain, he says. The stagnant water takes ages to recede. The Corporation has to deploy its workers to drain the water. The main problem is lack of outlets, poor implementation of projects and bad roads, some residents complain. A shopkeeper, P. Balu, says that rainwater stagnates on big potholes on roads. Another shopkeeper E. Ramachandran says, “Even after water recedes to a certain extent, the roads are still not motorable due to the slush. Corporation workers can drain the water only to a certain extent. So we decided to do the work ourselves by unclogging the blocked drains.” Corporation officials say that as soon as they receive complaints about waterlogging, workers are deployed at the affected places. “We even cleared waste materials from stormwater drains. Dumping of plastic waste choke the drains,” an official says. Steps are being taken to redress the grievances of the public. The public must also cooperate and not dump waste into the drains, the Corporation official says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-leaves-deluge-of-problems-in-its-wake/article36801879.ece
03 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM pays floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Building/Khadi Craft Centre on West Masi Street in Madurai. This was where Gandhi had decided to wear the iconic khadi loincloth. On September 22, 1921, Gandhi wore a khadi loincloth to attend a public meeting in Madurai. The building is now a memorial and a khadi craft centre. The Chief Minister inaugurated a sale of khadi products at the centre. Petitions from people After taking a look at the products on display, he signed in the visitor’s book. He also received petitions from those gathered outside the building. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy took part in the event and paid floral tributes. Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan, Collector Aneesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan and senior police officials were present. Mr. Stalin was received by Khadi Board officials at the memorial building. He was presented a khadi shawl and a book. Khadi Board officials at the centre said khadi products for sale included dresses, dress materials and other furnishing materials.  On September 22, 1921, Gandhi wore a khadi loincloth to attend a public meeting in Madurai. The building is now a memorial and a khadi craft centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-pays-floral-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi/article36801699.ece
03 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Flood warning issued in dam||The first flood warning in Sothuparai dam was issued on Friday evening after the water level in the dam touched 121.28 feet. According to a Public Works Department engineer, the water level touched 121.28 feet at 5 p.m. with an inflow of 16 cusecs. The full reservoir level is 126.8 feet. The second and the final flood warning will be issued as a when the water level touched 126.28 feet and the surplus water would be released. The total capacity of the reservoir is 100 mcft. Meanwhile, the PWD officials have sent a proposal for releasing water for 2,845 acres of land in Periyakulam taluk of Theni district. “The proposal has been made in anticipation of rainfall under northeast monsoon in October, November and December,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-flood-warning-issued/article36801778.ece
03 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.40 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 938 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 52.89 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,013 cusecs and a discharge of 1,169 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,357 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36801776.ece
03 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Appointment orders handed over||District Collector Shreya P. Singh on Saturday offered job orders to six persons on compassionate grounds in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco). The candidates were heirs of Tangedco staff who died during duty. Ms. Singh also distributed disaster relief funds to eight persons from Tiruchengode whose houses were damaged in recent rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-orders-handed-over/article36801796.ece
03 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G, Chief Minister pay tributes to Gandhi||Led by Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Union Territory on Saturday observed the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The Lt. Governor, accompanied by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan, Minister for Agriculture C. Djeacoumar, Minister for Civil Supplies A.K. Sai J. Saravana Kumar, AINRC legislators and senior officials, garlanded Gandhi’s statue on Beach Road. Patriotic songs and bhajans were sung by teachers and students of Bharthiar Palkalaikodam. A Congress delegation led by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam also garlanded the statue. BJP leaders, including party local unit president V. Saminathan and party legislators, also paid tributes to Gandhi. Ms. Soundararajan and Mr. Rangasamy also garlanded the statue of Perunthalaivar Kamarajar on the Kamarajar Salai-Anna Salai junction on the occasion of his death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-chief-minister-pay-tributes-to-gandhi/article36801954.ece
03 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Firm shut down for making single-use plastic||The Pondicherry Pollution Control Committee (PPCC) has sealed a firm involved in the manufacture of banned plastic carry bags. A special team, comprising N. Ramesh, senior environmental engineer, Department of Science Technology and Environment; Suresh Raja, tahsildar, Bahour taluk and Karthikeyan, Commissioner, Bahour commune panchayat; conducted a surprise inspection at the unit in Kattukuppam Industrial Estate on Friday. The team found the unit was involved in the manufacture of single-use plastic items. An order issued by Member Secretary, PPCC, R. Smitha, said INS Plastics had been closed under the provisions of Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, with immediate effect. The PPCC plans to make Bahour a plastic-free model commune panchayat. During the Budget meeting, the government announced that Bahour would be declared a single-use plastic free panchayat, with effect from October 2, Mr. Ramesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firm-shut-down/article36801739.ece
03 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 82 new COVID-19 cases, no deaths||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 82 new COVID-19 cases. No deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. As per data available with the Health Department, of the total new cases, 50 were registered in Puducherry, 21 in Karaikal, 8 in Mahe and 3 in Yanam. As many as 5,012 persons were tested for the novel coronavirus in the Union Territory during the time. While the test positivity now stood at 1. 64%, case fatality rate has come down to 1.45%. Total toll Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 1,840 persons have succumbed to the virus in Puducherry. So far, 1,265,13 have been infected with the virus. Figures available with the Department revealed that as many as 10,156,55 persons have received the COVID-19 vaccine in the Union Territory. As many as 6,958,42 have received the first dose while 3,198,13 have gotten the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-82-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths/article36801957.ece
03 October 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Congress forms committee ahead of local body polls||The Pradesh Congress Committee has formed a 13-member panel to oversee preparations for the local body polls. The body presided over by PCC chief A.V. Subramanian includes former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, MP V. Vaithilingam, PCC working president Neela Gangadharan, former Ministers M. Kandasamy, M.O.H.F. Shajahan and R. Kamalakannan among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-forms-committee-ahead-of-local-body-polls/article36801955.ece
03 October 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death in UT||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 82 new COVID-19 cases. No deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. Of the total new cases, 50 were registered in Puducherry, 21 in Karaikal, 8 in Mahe and 3 in Yanam, according to the State Health Department bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-in-ut/article36801995.ece
03 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark Gandhi Jayanti||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan unveiled a photo of Mahatma Gandhi as part of Gandhi Jayanti celebrations in Salem on Saturday. Mr. Saminathan also inaugurated the special discount sale at Khadi Kraft. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Saminathan recollected the contributions of Mahatma Gandhi to freedom struggle. A 30% special discount sale is being conducted at Khadi Kraft, he said. He added that grama sabha meetings were being held at village panchayats where local body elections were not held. District Collector S. Karmegham was present. The Collector later inaugurated a photo exhibition on Gandhi's life at the Collectorate. A rally organised was by the Railway Division to commemorate Gandhi Jayanti. Divisional Railway Manager A. Gautham Srinivas administered the pledge and flagged off an awareness rally at the Salem railway junction in which college students took part. The rally concluded at the divisional office. Senior officials were present. In Erode, District Collector H. Krishnanunni garlanded a statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Erode Panchayat Union office and launched the special sale of Khadi Kraft. The Collector took part in the grama sabha meeting at Kumaravalasu panchayat. Addressing the participants, the Collector said that all eligible persons must get vaccinated and advised the public to take measures to prevent dengue in the villages and set up rainwater harvesting measures. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P.Singh paid floral tributes to the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at Khadi Kraft store and launched the Deepavali special sale of Khadi varieties. The grama sabha meeting at Kokkalai panchayat in Tiruchengode was cancelled after a quarrel occurred regarding implementation of resolutions passed in the previous meetings. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S. Divyadarshini paid floral tributes to the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at Khadi Kraft and launched the Deepavali sale. The Collector said in a release that sales to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh had been targeted for Deepavali this year at Khadi Kraft. Ms. Divyadarshini took part in the grama sabha meeting held at Periyampatti panchayat and advised the public to follow COVID-19 safety protocols and cooperate with all COVID-19 preventive measures taken by the government. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy unveiled a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at Krishnagiri Municipality and launched the special sale at Khadi Kraft. The store has set a target of Rs. 50 lakh sales during Deepavali, this year. Mr. Reddy took part in the grama sabha meeting at Pillanakuppam panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-events-mark-gandhi-jayanti/article36801795.ece
03 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Former DMK MLA Raja passes away||Former DMK legislator and son of DMK veteran former Minister late Veerapandi S. Arumugam, A. Raja passed away on Saturday. The DMK leader was 58-years-old and was about to celebrate his birthday on the day. Raja was the second son of late Veerapandi S. Arumugam and he represented Veerapandi constituency between 2006 and 2011. He was serving as State secretary of the party’s election working committee. Raja was found unconscious at his residence near Pulavari on Saturday morning and though he was rushed to a private hospital nearby, doctors pronounced his death. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin took a special flight to reach Salem from Madurai and paid his respects and consoled the family members. Ministers K.N. Nehru, M.R.K. Paneerselvam, K. Ponmudi, Anbalagan Mahesh Poyyamozhi, M. Mathiventhan, A.V. Velu, M.P. Saminathan, I. Periyasamy, Palanivel Thyaga Rajan, MPs and other senior leaders paid tributes DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi visited Pullavari and paid her last respects. In a condolence message, Mr. Stalin recollected Raja as someone who could attract people with his pleasant nature. The Chief Minister reminisced about his moments with Raja during his recent visit to Salem. He said that Raja’s demise was like a pillar falling down. Mr. Stalin said that Raja was someone who would finish off any task given to him effectively. Raja would always live in the hearts of the party cadre, he said. According to family members, the funeral ceremony is expected to be held on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-dmk-mla-raja-passes-away/article36801736.ece
03 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers trained in cassava cultivation||Scientists from ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Reserach Institute, Thiruvananthapuram conducted a training on cassava cultivation in Salem and Namakkal recently. According to a release, cassava has been identified as the product for Salem district under the One District One Product programme by the Centre. A team of conducted the training for farmers at Kolli Hills, Namakkal and Gudamalani in Salem district. The scientists visited the seed village plots, distributed planting materials, fertilizers, and assessed impact of cassava and its supply chain. The farmers were trained in various techniques of cultivation. They were provided a booklet on modern techniques and advised on marketing produce. Over 100 farmers benefited from the programme, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-trained-in-cassava-cultivation/article36801790.ece
03 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers are against hurried implementation of e-DPC method||Delta farmers seem to have been caught on a sticky wicket as the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has decided to stick to its announcement that procurement of paddy at the Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) hereafter will be done through ‘e-DPC’ method only. Though a section of farmers feel that the new system would help weed out the problem of paddy from non-delta districts measured at the DPCs in delta districts to some extent, the corporation’s decision to implement the system without giving any breathing time for the farmers to get to know fully about the new method was not received well by them. Listing out the ‘difficulties’ such as applying for the ‘sales slot’ through the Internet, a practice to which the majority of Delta farmers were unexposed to and ensuring the movement of paddy to the ‘designated’ DPC on the scheduled date, the farmers suggested that the normal method of procurement should also continue until the Delta prepares itself for the harvesting of ‘samba’ crop this season. Referring to the situation wherein paddy grains were brought in a large quantity to the DPCs in the recent past and thereby forcing the Corporation to increase the number of bags of procurement to 1,000 bags a day, they anticipated that a similar situation might crop up in the days to come. Already, the ‘kuruvai’ harvesting was going on and effecting a total change in the procurement process at this hour would only affect the farmers who have managed to raise the crop under severe financial constraints and braving the vagaries of Nature, they added. Stating that there exist some problems in booking the date of sale under the new method, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, a progressive farmer, suggested that a three-month grace period should be given to the farmers to get themselves acquainted with the new system of procurement. Till then, the normal procedure of procurement should continue, he pleaded. Meanwhile, farmers organisations such as Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangangalin Kootu Iyakkam and Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) organised demonstrations near the TNCSC office in Thanjavur and in front of the DPC at Kovilur near Ammapettai, respectively, on Friday demanding the withdrawal of e-DPC procurement method. Some of the farmers at Chellampatti in Orathanadu taluk blocked the vehicular traffic by parking their tractors across the carriageway at the bazaar area. They withdrew their agitation on the arrival of the police. Similarly, a group of farmers besieged the DPC at Raramuthirakottai near Thanjavur demanding that the paddy be procured under the existing system of procurement. The demonstration was withdrawn after they were informed that their grievance would be brought to the notice of the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-are-against-hurried-implementation-of-e-dpc-method/article36801772.ece
03 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Post-harvest loss, a hurdle in doubling income of farmers’||Post-harvest loss is also a factor that obstructs the materialising the dream of doubling farmers income, according to the NITI Aayog member Ramesh Chand. Professor Ramesh Chand made this observation while addressing the students of the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology at the Graduation Ceremony held here on Friday. Though the country has been at the forefront in food grain production globally and the second-largest food producer in terms of calorie content, Professor Ramesh Chand said the post-harvest loss plagued the supply chain industry and it was disheartening that every year substantial produce was lost. The estimated loss in durables hovers around 10%, semi-perishables and commodities like milk, fish, meat, eggs, fruits and vegetables between 10 to 20% and the horticultural produce at around 16%. Incidentally, the food processing industry sums up to about 32% of the country’s total food market which receives raw food from the farmers' assets such as farms and livestock. Thus by reducing the post-harvest loss enhancing the income of farmers could become a reality, the NITI Aayog member observed.  Delivering the special address on the occasion, the Director, Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati, Kalidindi N. Satyanarayana emphasised the need for an interdisciplinary approach in the research on food processing. Exhorting the passing out graduates to remain abreast with technology and hone their managerial and entrepreneurial skills, Professor Satyanarayana opined that joint venture initiatives between the educational institutions and the industry in the field of applied research and experiential learning would help address certain problems faced by the farming community and as well as the food processing industry. In his opening remarks, the Director, IIFPT, C.Anandharamakrishnan observed that the agriculture and food processing industries should work together for reducing the wastage of agricultural produce and thereby increase the livelihoods of farmers. A total of 116 graduates – 72 in B.Tech (Food Process Engineering), 23 in M.Tech (FPE) and 21 in M.Tech (Food Science and Technology) – received their degree certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-harvest-loss-a-hurdle-in-doubling-income-of-farmers/article36801774.ece
03 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Plea’ to the Mahatma||While the routine events such as the conduct of gram sabhas and garlanding of Mahatma Gandhi statues were organised on Saturday, a group of farmers symbolically submitted a memorandum to the Mahatma seeking the repealing of three farm laws at Kumbakonam on the Gandhi Jayanthi Day. In the memorandum, the representatives of the Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association had urged the Union government to repeal the ‘anti-farmer’ laws and also to withdraw the Electricity Amendment Act. While the Thanjavur Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver attended the ‘gram sabha’ meeting held at Vallam Pudur panchayat near Thanjavur along with the Thiruvaiyaru MLA Durai Chandrasekaran, the Tiruvarur Collector Gayathri Krishnan attended the ‘gram sabha’ at Thiruneiper panchayat near Tiruvarur along with the Tiruvarur MLA Poondi K.Kalaivanan on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-submit-petition-to-mahatma-gandhi/article36801773.ece
03 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Discount sale inaugurated in Theni||Collector K. V. Muralidharan inaugurated khadi discount sale at Khadi Kraft showroom here on Saturday on the occasion of birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. He said that Khadi and Village Industries Commission had been providing full-time and part-time spinning and weaving work to poor people to uplift them. The products produced by such workers were sold at 30% discount during festival seasons and birth anniversaries of leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, C. N. Annadurai, Periyar and Kamaraj. Besides, loan schemes were available for employees of government and private companies for buying khadi varieties. A khadi showroom and a mattress unit were functioning in Theni district. Last year the district achieved a sale of Rs. 21.31 lakh, this year the target was Rs. 58 lakh. Khadi silk, polyester, woollen varieties, readymade shirts, mattresses, pillows were being sold with a 30% discount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discount-sale-inaugurated-in-theni/article36801783.ece
03 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Gram sabha meetings mark Gandhi’s birth anniversary||Gram Sabha meetings were organised in all village panchayats in Thoothukudi district on Saturday as part of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Collector K. Senthil Raj participated in the gram sabha meeting held at Thiruppanichettikulam village panchayat under Srivaikundam panchayat union. Participants took a pledge against child marriage, crime against women and children at the meeting. Dr. Senthil Raj appealed to the villagers to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and follow COVID-19-appropriate behavior such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and washing hands frequently with soap or sanitiser. The Collector also appealed to the villagers to create rainwater harvesting structures in every house before the onset of the northeast monsoon. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi participated in the gram sabha meeting held at Theethaampatti under Kovilpatti Assembly segment along with Minister for Social Welfare Geetha Jeevan. The villagers of S. Kailaasapuram near Puthiyamputhur unanimously passed a resolution against the proposal to set up a cement factory in the village at their gram sabha meeting . ‘No’ to cement factory Since the villagers of Kailaasapuram, Savarimangalam and Kombadi Thalavaipuram were against the move, the gram sabha meeting witnessed the passing of a resolution against the proposed cement factory by a private company. “If the official machinery chooses to trash the resolution passed at the gram sabha meeting today, it will result in a series of agitations,” the villagers warned. In Kanniyakumari district, Collector M. Aravind participated in the gram sahba meeting held at Eesaanthimangalam under Thovalai panchayat union. He urged the public to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and take all precautionary measures to guard themselves from the viral infection. The Collector appealed to the public to create rainwater harvesting structures in each house and instructed officials to erect the structures in all government buildings and schools even as the district administration was deepening water bodies to store rainwater during the N-E monsoon. Since the election model code of conduct was in force in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts for the rural civic polls to be held on October 6 and 9, gram sabha meetings could not be conducted in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gram-sabha-meetings-mark-gandhis-birth-anniversary/article36801989.ece
03 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Annual Credit Plan for Thoothukudi released||The Annual Credit Plan for Thoothukudi prepared by the district Lead Bank, State Bank of India, for the financial year 2021-22 has been released by MP Kanimozhi. A credit outlay of Rs. 15,420 crore has been proposed enhancing the level of allocation by 21.63% to cater to the requirements of the increasing demand of the people in different sectors, especially the key thrust for sectors like agriculture and Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. Collector K. Senthil Raj, who received the ACP from Ms. Kanimozhi on Thursday, said the Annual Credit Plan for 2020-21 had touched 120.49% in terms of financial performance with a disbursement of Rs. 14,561 crore against the outlay of Rs. 12,084 crore. Agriculture, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Sector, Priority Sector advances booked a growth of 124%, 129% and 116 % respectively. This showed the genuine involvement of the banks under different sectors and reflected the commitment of the bankers towards the implementation of various credit schemes for the welfare of the people, the Collector said. An attempt had been made to set branch-wise target for welfare schemes to ensure uniform and balanced growth in the district. The framework would facilitate smooth transfer of funds under DBT schemes. Ms. Kanimozhi thanked the bankers of Thoothukudi district for achieving the loan targets even though the pandemic situation had adversely impacted the banking industry. “I appeal to the bankers to give loans liberally to the needy to achieve the preset goals,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-credit-plan-for-thoothukudi-released/article36801991.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Employees protest ‘splintering’ of Ordnance Factory Board||A number of employees of the two defence units in Tiruchi observed Black Day on Friday by boycotting lunch in protest against "splintering" of the Ordnance Factory Board into seven corporations. They condemned what they termed as the "unilateral" decision of the Modi Government at the Centre to disintegrate the 220-year-old Indian ordnance factories into non-viable corporations. It was a first step to subsequently hand over the national assets of the 41 factories to private corporates, the employees apprehended. They also questioned how they could be deputed to the seven corporations without taking their consent after having been recruited as central government/ defence civilian employees, and cautioned that the disbanding of the OFB will have serious impact on the national security of the country. "Indian army will be forced to be at the mercy of private corporates," General Secretary of Amarjeet Kaur said. Employees affiliated to All India Defence Employees' Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, Confederation of Defence Recognised Federations, National Progressive Defence Employees Federation, and All India Bahujan Defence Employees Federation took part in the lunch boycott protest. In a referendum conducted by these trade unions in the 41 ordnance factories during September, 61,199 out of 61,564 employees, constituting 99.41 percent of the workforce had voted against the government decision. In Tiruchi district, 99.73 percent of the 1,342 employees in Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, and all the 690 employees of the High Energy Projectile Factory rejected the government decision to corporatise the OFB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employees-protest-splintering-of-ordnance-factory-board/article36801985.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tender floated to ready DPR for elevated corridor||The State Highways Department has called for bids from consultants to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for construction of an elevated corridor from Anna Statue near Chinthamani to the Railway Junction in the city. This is one of the major infrastructure projects planned for the city in recent years although it is essentially a revival of a proposal mooted some years ago. Minister for State E.V.Velu, on a recent visit to the city, and Minister for Municipal Administration K.N.Nehru had told the media that a push would given for infrastructure development projects in the city Although the distance between the two points is hardly six km, it takes about 45 minutes for a commute by public transport on the stretch, essentially due to the narrow roads and heavy traffic congestion. The surroundings of Chathiram Bus Stand, Mainguard Gate Junction, Gandhi Market and Warehouse Road are among the major traffic bottlenecks en route. The Corporation toyed with the idea of building an elevated corridor between Chathiram Bus Stand and West Boulevard Road some years ago, but did not pursue the project seriously. Subsequently, the Highways Department mooted the idea and submitted a report to the government on building an elevated corridor between Chinthamani and the railway junction a few years ago after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was elected from Srirangam constituency. The proposal remained in cold storage and the department has revived it now and decided to hire a consultant to take up a survey and prepare a detailed project report. As per the tender document published on Friday, the Construction and Maintenance Wing of the Highways Department, Tiruchi Circle, had said that the DPR has to be prepared by carrying out traffic study, engineering and economic feasibility studies in accordance with requirement and specification of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and all other relevant Indian Road Congress codes in force. The elevated corridor would run a distance of about 5.40 km between the Anna Statue and Junction via the West Boulevard Road. The DPR should incorporate provisions for pedestrian sub-ways near Chathiram Bus Stand and Main Guard Gate and junction improvements at all major and minor junctions and street/road junctions. Provisions for storm water drains, lane dividers and safety arrangements have been included. The elevated high level bridge has to take off from the high level bridge proposed from Odathurai to Mallatchipuram (near Kudamurutti Bridge). Feasibility of providing up/down ramps near Chathiram Bus Stand, Gandhi Market, Marakadai (leading to Ramakrishna bridge), Head Post Office junction and Railway Junction need to be analysed in the DPR, which is to be prepared at an estimate of Rs. 2.56 crore. The corridor has to be suitably designed to cross the Palakarai road over bridge and the Melapudur subway and the alignment and design is to be prepared keeping land acquisition to minimum, the document said. The department has fixed November 1 as the last date for submission of bids. The consultant is to submit the DPR within six months from the date of award of the contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tender-floated-to-ready-dpr-for-elevated-corridor/article36801762.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for affordable flats infuses life into realty sector in Tiruchi||Due to a lacklustre demand for luxury apartments, realtors in Tiruchi have limited their presence to affordable flats alone. The apartment culture came into being in Srirangam in the late 1980’s, a time when flats were sold for Rs. 200 a sq. ft. It went up to Rs. 350 in the early 1990’s. The concept gradually expanded to Cantonment, Thillai Nagar, Woraiyur, Thennur and Vayalur Road. It reached its peak in 2010. On seeing a good demand for flats, a section of builders diversified into building luxury flats. But since 2011-12, the market is witnessing a downturn. Except for a few established builders, several small builders and first-time promoters have stopped new projects due to stagnation in stock inventory. The established players are also cautious now. Though COVID-19 had an adverse impact in the construction sector, it is said that the demand for affordable housing has gone up marginally after the first lockdown, as several ready-to-move flats, measuring less than 1,000 sq. ft., were sold. In line with the buyers’ sentiments, the builders have started launching affordable flats. At least five new projects have been launched in the city in the last few weeks. Five proposals are waiting for approval from the Town and Country Planning authorities in Tiruchi and Chennai. Delegation of more powers to the local planning authorities has also come in handy for the promoters in launching affordable flats. “The return of non-resident Indians in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the work-from-home culture infused life into the sagging realty sector. We get several enquiries for affordable houses. So the builders have started launching new projects,” says S. Anand, Managing Director, Jeyam Builders. He says that many buyers look for flats measuring 900 to 1,000 square feet - and 1% GST for houses measuring less than 968 sq.ft., as against 5% for flats costing above Rs. 45 lakh is another reason for the demand for affordable flats. But there are players who want to study the market before launching affordable projects. P. Ravichandran, Managing Director of Royal Shelters, said that the demand for affordable flats was good after the first wave. But there was a fluctuation in demand after the second wave of COVID-19. The market had to be studied well, he said.  Flat rate Five projects have been launched in Tiruchi in the last few weeks Buyers look for flats measuring 900 to 1,000 square feet Mere 1% GST for houses measuring less than 968 sq.ft. acts as an incentive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-affordable-flats-infuses-life-into-realty-sector-in-tiruchi/article36801987.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Marathons mark Gandhi Jayanti||A mass yoga demonstration and a cyclothon were organised in the city to commemorate Gandhi Jayanti and the 75th year of Independence - Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. A Fit India 2.0 marathon was flagged off from the Salt Satyagraha memorial near the Omni Bus Stand, following which a mass yoga demonstration and a cyclothon were held on Anna Nagar Link Road. Residents and walkers who exercise at the newly inaugurated park along the Uyyakondan Canal and other enthusiasts took part in the event. Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Collector S. Sivarasu and Tiruchi MLA S. Inigo Irudhayaraj inaugurated the events as they remembered the father of the nation. They also garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi near the Head Post Office. To commemorate the 75th Independence day, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports conducted marathons in 744 districts in the country through the Nehru Yuva Kendra and the Sports Development Authority. The School Education Minister addressing the gathering in front of the Salt Satyagraha Memorial urged the public to dedicate 30 minutes of their day to exercise to ensure a healthy life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marathons-mark-gandhi-jayanti/article36801768.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Neduvasal panchayat seeks dismantling of exploratory wells||The Neduvasal East village panchayat in Pudukottai district on Saturday adopted a resolution reiterating the demand for dismantling the exploratory oil wells sunk by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation several years ago in some of the hamlets around the village and restoration of the land to the owners. Dismantling the wells and return of the land to the owners has been one of the major demands of residents of Neduvasal and surrounding villages where the exploratory wells had been sunk by ONGC over two decades ago. Following a mass protest at Neduvasal against the hydrocarbon exploration project in 2017, the district officials had assured steps would be taken to dismantle the oil wells and restore the lands to the owners, the villagers say. “They assured that it will be done within six months, but have not done so yet. Some of the participants raised the issue at today’s gram sabha meeting and hence we made a request,” K.Dakshinamurthy, president of the village panchayat, told The Hindu . None of the exploratory wells is situated in the village panchayat. “They are located in four places around our village. But since the agitation went by the name of Neduvasal protest, we raise the demand,” Mr.Dakshinamurthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neduvasal-panchayat-seeks-dismantling-of-exploratory-wells/article36801769.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Khadi discount sale begins||Special rebate sales for the Deepavali festival began at Khadi Kraft retail outs in Tiruchi and other towns in central districts on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi on Saturday. Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Saturday flagged off the sale at the Khadi Kraft outlet near Tiruchi junction in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu. Khadi, silk and polyester products will be sold at 30% rebate and woollen products at 20% rebate during the sale. An annual sale target has been fixed of Rs. 62 lakh for Tiruchi for the current year. It sold khadi products for Rs. 42 lakh in 2020. In Karur, Collector T. Prabu Shankar inaugurated the sale at the khadi retail outlet at Thanthonimalai. He said a sale target of Rs. 1.40 crore had been fixed for the current year in Karur district. Collector P. Ramana Sarasvathi, who inaugurated the special rebate sale in Ariyalur, said a sale target of Rs. 20 lakh had been fixed for the current year in Ariyalur district. The people should patronage the khadi products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-discount-sale-begins/article36801765.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 COVID-19 cases reported in central region||The central region reported 329 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Four patients died of the viral infection in the region, two of whom hailed from Tiruvarur and one each in Perambalur and Thanjavur. Thanjavur district continued to report a high number of fresh COVID-19 cases. On Saturday, 94 patients reported COVID-19 positive in the district. Tiruvarur reported a sudden spike in cases yet again, with 62 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 53 cases were reported in Tiruchi. Mayiladuthurai reported 31 fresh cases, Nagapattinam, 29, and Karur, 24. Pudukottai reported 19 cases and Ariyalur nine. Perambalur district reported eight patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-covid-19-cases-reported-in-central-region/article36801760.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Resolution against merger plan||The residents of Thayanur village on Saturday voiced their opposition to the move to merge their village with the Tiruchi City Corporation, at the gram sabha meeting held on Saturday. The meeting was held in the presence of a Block Development Officer. Devi Krishnamurthy, president of Thayanur panchayat, presided. The resolution said many residents in the agrarian village were dependent on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for livelihood. If it was merged with the Tiruchi Corporation, the villagers would be deprived of the jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolution-against-merger-plan/article36801766.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘No change in school reopening decision’||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Saturday said there was no change in the government’s decision to resume in-person lessons for students of classes 1 to 8 on November 1. When asked whether the government would consider postponing the reopening of schools for lower classes in view of Deepavali falling on November 4, the Minister said there was no change in the decision as of now. When a report containing the views of the Chief Educational Officers on the reopening of schools was submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, he had said a decision would be taken based on the opinion of health experts as the safety of children was paramount. After holding a review meeting with health experts, the Chief Minister had announced the reopening of schools for lower classes on November 1, the Minister noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-school-reopening-decision/article36801700.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 73.08 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 12,579 cusecs and the discharge 5,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36801761.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition held||A day-long exhibition of handicrafts made of recycled items was held at the Tiruchi City Corporation on Friday. The handicrafts were displayed for the public as a part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the celebration of India's 75th year of Independence. It was inaugurated by S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, in the presence of P. Sivapatham and G. Kumaresan, Executive Engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-held/article36801764.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Khadi festival discount sale begins||The Khadi and Village Industries Board, which sold Rs. 25.96 lakh-worth products during the last fiscal, has been given the target of selling Rs. 41 lakh-worth products during this financial year. Inaugurating the annual special discount sale at the Khadi and Village Industries Board’s showroom near Anna Stadium in Palayamkottai on Saturday on the occasion of the 153rd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, District Revenue Officer A. Perumal said the KVIB, which was established with the objective of improving the living standards of rural artisans and handloom weavers, had a footwear manufacturing unit and a khadi unit in Palayamkottai, a carpentry unit in Pettai and five handloom units in Veeravanallur. The KVIB, in view of Deepavali special discount sale, would open its counters at the Collectorate, panchayat union, municipalities and town panchayat offices, government hospitals till Deepavali to sell silk saris, khadi dhotis, towels, readymade shirts, mattresses, pillows, khadi silk, khadi polyester, woolen, honey, toilet soaps, frankincense, palm jaggery and other palm products. While 20% discount would be offered for woollen products, poly vastra products would be on sale with 30% discount. Government employees could buy the products at 10 equated monthly installments, Mr. Perumal said. The first discount sale of KVIB was received by professor Rama of Sarah Tucker College, Palayamkottai. In Tenkasi, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj inaugurated the KVIB sale after garlanding the portrait of the Mahatma in the presence of KVIB Chief Executive Officer and Civic Polls Observer for the district P. Shankar. The KVIB, Tenkasi, against the sale target of Rs. 50.30 lakh during the last fiscal, achieved the sale of Rs. 38.93 lakh-worth products and had been given the target of Rs. 32.55 lakh for the current financial year, Mr. Gopala Sundararaj said. In Thoothukudi district, Collector K. Senthil Raj garlanded Gandhi’s bust on the Corporation office premises and inaugurated the KVIB products sale in the showroom on VOC Road. After achieving the sale of Rs. 60.49 lakh-worth products during the last financial year, the KIVB, Thoothukudi district had been given a sales target of Rs. 82 lakh for current fiscal, he said. In Kanniyakumari district, Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj inaugurated the special discount sale at KVIB’s showroom near Anna Bus-Stand in Nagercoil. KVIB’s Kanniyakumari district unit had been given thes sale target of Rs. 1.77 crore during the current financial year, Mr. Mano Thangaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-festival-discount-sale-begins/article36801997.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Misappropriation of funds behind suspension of panchayat secretary?||A village panchayat secretary has been placed under suspension for allegedly violating civic poll code violations. However, it is learnt that misappropriation of village panchayat funds to the tune of Rs. 17 lakh was the reason behind the suspension. Sources in the Collectroate said Kasthurirengapuram village panchayat secretary Balasubramanian alias Balan canvassed votes for his wife, who was contesting the election for the post of Kasthurirengapuram village panchayat president. Based on complaints of poll code violations against him, Balasubramanian had been placed under suspension. However, sources in Radhapuram union clarified that village panchayat funds to the tune of Rs. 17 lakh had been transferred to two individuals with the connivance of senior officials of Radhapuram union. Hence, Balasubramanian alias Balan had been placed under suspension. “Since the rural civic polls in Radhapuram union are to be held on October 9, Balasubramanian has been made a scapegoat. As investigations are on, senior officials of Radhapuram union, with whose knowledge the hefty sum of money was transferred, will be booked after the polls. Interestingly, the Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi has already started his probe about the illegal transfer of money from the village panchayat funds,” said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-secretary-suspended/article36801777.ece
03 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts||The district experienced widespread rain on Saturday afternoon thanks to the weather system in the southwest Bay of Bengal. After the sky remained overcast since morning following overnight drizzle in several places of the district, it began to rain in the afternoon in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. The rain that lasted for around 30 minutes since 2.30 p.m. brought down the temperature considerably. However, hilly regions like Maanjolai experienced only a mild drizzle. A strong drizzle was reported in a few places in Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts on Friday night and Saturday afternoon. Tenkasi and Paavoorchathran areas recorded brief rain on Saturday afternoon, while Alangulam experienced only a mild drizzle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-tirunelveli-thoothukudi-and-tenkasi-districts/article36801992.ece
03 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Saturday stood at 86.60 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 591.90 cusecs and a discharge of 504.25 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 63.45 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 37 cusecs and no discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36801994.ece
03 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Food business operators must have 14-digit licence number’||With Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) making it mandatory for food business operators to mention the 14-digit licence/registration number on bills, the FSSAI officials conducted a training programme for food business operators in Tiruppur on Friday. A release from FSSAI Designated Officer (Tiruppur) B. Vijayalalithambigai said that the Food Safety Training and Certification (FOSTAC) programme was held for the food business operators in association with Cotton Market Vendors’ Association. Vendors of vegetables, fruits, groceries and those running eateries were trained by FSSAI-recognised trainers. From October 1, all food business operators across the country are required to print their respective 14-digit FSSAI licence/registration number on the bills, receipts and invoices, the release said. This will help consumers to report on low-quality products and for authorities to initiate action. The food business operators must ensure that they have the renewed licence/registration number and strict action will be initiated against those operating without 14-digit number, Dr. Vijayalalithambigai said in the release. The programme also covered adherence to COVID-19 safety protocol in all enterprises, according to the release. Public grievances regarding food safety shall be communicated to the FSSAI via WhatsApp at 94440 42322.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-business-operators-must-have-14-digit-licence-number/article36801721.ece
03 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Fourth mega camp in Tiruppur aims to administer 81,120 doses||The Tiruppur district administration said the fourth COVID-19 vaccination drive aims to administer 81,120 doses on Sunday. A release said the fourth vaccination drive will involve 631 stationary camps and 41 mobile camps and will be open for all eligible persons from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. These camps will be arranged at government hospitals, primary health centres, educational institutions, railway stations, bus terminuses and private hospitals and 2,688 healthcare workers and volunteers will be involved in this drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-mega-camp-in-tiruppur-aims-to-administer-81120-doses/article36801723.ece
03 October 2021||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister interacts with Vellery panchayat president||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told women in Vellery village in Tiruvannamalai district that they could now spend more time weaving the famous Arani silk sarees, rather than fetching pots of water. Each household in the village now has a piped drinking water connection that has been implemented under the Centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), a flagship welfare scheme of the government aimed at providing safe and clean drinking water to all rural households by 2024. Mr. Modi was interacting through video conferencing with presidents of village panchayats that have given 100% piped, safe and clean drinking water to all households. He spoke to five village heads in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Manipur on the initiative, to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. At 11.37 a.m on Saturday, S. Sudha, president, Vellery village panchayat, Arani taluk, got to answer six questions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He greeted her with the traditional ‘Vanakkam’. “Earlier, your village did not have tap water supply. Now, your village has that facility. How do you feel?” Mr. Modi asked her. Wasting no time, Ms. Sudha said, “We spent a lot of time fetching a few pots of water before doing our other domestic chores. After getting piped water supply to our houses, we feel relieved and happy,” she said in Tamil, through a translator. The Prime Minister was attentively listening to her responses. He said he was a frequent visitor to Tamil Nadu. “I heard a lot about Arani silks (sarees). Can you (Sudha) talk about it?” Mr Modi asked. All smiles, Ms. Sudha said more than 20 weavers, including women, were still involved in weaving the Arani silk sarees at her village. They also exported Arani silk sarees to foreign countries, she said. In a lighter vein, the Prime Minister told her that the village of weavers, especially women, could now spend more time in weaving the Arani silks as each household in the village now had piped water supply. “We used to wait in a long queue to fetch a few pots of water. We also used to place empty water pots to fix our spots to get water. Now, all those woes have been ended by you, sir,” Ms. Sudha told him. Mr. Modi also wanted to know from her what steps, as a village panchayat president, she had taken to ensure uninterrupted water supply to her residents. “Chennai faces a water scarcity. What steps have you taken to ensure water sustainability?” he asked her. She replied that construction of check dams, a rainwater harvesting system in every household in the village and desilting of waterbodies including ponds and tanks in her village were some of the measures taken by the village. As the conversation with her came to an end, the Prime Minister thanked Ms. Sudha and her villagers for ensuring 100% piped water supply to the households, and said they had set an example for other villages to adopt this. “You [the village head] should ensure that the facilities to provide uninterrupted water supply are maintained properly,” said the Prime Minister. Located around 6 km from Arani taluk in Tiruvannamalai, Vellery village is one of the 37 villages in the taluk. The village has a total of 412 households with 100% piped water supply connection under the JJM. B. Murugesh, Collector, Tiruvannamalai, and residents of Vellery village participated in the talk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-interacts-with-vellery-panchayat-president-on-jal-jeevan-mission/article36801709.ece
03 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Multi-pronged strategy to locate, capture tiger T23 alive||Drones, sniffer dogs and elite forest force were all put to work, even as another day went by with the Forest Department no closer to capturing the elusive tiger, T23, which remained undetected for a seventh day. After closing the entire stretch between Masinagudi and Theppakadu to traffic, drones and forest personnel were deployed to locate the tiger, which has killed two persons in villages bordering the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and Gudalur. The tiger is also suspected to be behind the deaths of two others, though this remains unproven. Tracking the animal More than 75 forest personnel, including expert trackers and special task force members, were engaged in on-ground operations to track the animal. Officials said the prime objective of the operation was to neutralise the animal through non-lethal methods using tranquilliser darts. A team of Forest Elite Force personnel from Coimbatore joined the operation late Saturday. Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, deputy director of MTR, core area, said the tiger had hidden itself in thick undergrowth in the areas surrounding Masinagudi. Camera traps are being set up to narrow the search area and locate the animal, he said. The operation will continue on Sunday. The police stopped people from traveling past the Masinagudi check post, while forest staff have closed the Theppakadu check post. The entire stretch was declared as “operation area”. The road was reopened for traffic on Saturday evening. Forest officials said all efforts were geared towards tranquillising and capturing the tiger alive. The Forest Department headquarters clarified that no shooting order had been issued (to kill the tiger) and the the order issued on Friday was for hunting. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, hunting includes capturing, trapping, tranquillising, restraining and killing only when all the above steps fail. All efforts are towards trapping the tiger, a senior official said. Chief wildlife warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj also clarified that the tiger was not a man eater. Locals protest Villagers and kin of the 82-year-old man who died on Friday staged a protest in Masinagudi on Saturday, demanding that the tiger be killed. The protesters refused to bury the body of M. Basavan. Forest officials and police rushed to the spot and held talks with the protesters, who eventually dispersed. The body was later buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multi-pronged-strategy-to-locate-capture-tiger-t23-alive/article36801704.ece
03 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Law and order in the State has deteriorated, says OPS||The law and order in the State has deteriorated, with the ruling DMK remaining a mute spectator to rising crimes, including murders and burglaries, former Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said on Saturday. Addressing party cadre ahead of the local body elections at Katpadi, he said that during the recently held Assembly election, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced 505 promises to the people but all of them had not been fulfilled. The AIADMK coordinator motivated his cadre and candidates for the local body elections by saying that the party lost the Assembly election merely by 1% of the total votes polled. The defeat by a thin margin had affected the morale of the cadre. As the party was entering its 50th year of formation, he asked them not to get demoralised. Taking a dig at the Water Resources Minister, Duraimurugan, at his home turf in Katpadi for calling former Chief Minister M.G.Ramachandran a back-stabber, Mr. Panneerselvam said it was MGR who propagated the DMK ideologies through his movies and also helped Karunanidhi to become the Chief Minister after C.N. Annadurai. Mr. Pannerselvam also met cadre and party functionaries in Ranipet and Tirupattur and spoke to them about the local body elections which will be held between October 6 and 9.  It was MGR who propagated DMK ideologies through his movies and helped Karunanidhi to become Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam AIADMK coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-and-order-in-tn-has-deteriorated-says-ops/article36801710.ece
03 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Seized vehicles fetch over Rs. 1 cr. in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai||The police in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai auctioned a total of 681 seized vehicles, earning a revenue of Rs. 1.16 crore a few days ago. The vehicles were lying in 60 police stations in these districts for the past two years. Because of the pandemic, they could not be auctioned. In Vellore, the Superintendent of Police, S. Selvakumar, ordered auctioning of 528 vehicles. The majority of them — 499 two-wheelers — were auctioned as scrap. An auction was held on the parade ground for the Armed Reserved wing at the Superintendent of Police office with more than 200 visitors taking part in the auction. “Most of these vehicles were seized by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW). Such an auction also helps provide much needed space in the police stations,” said Mr. Selvakumar. In Tiruvannamalai, the police led by S. Pavan Kumar, Superintendent of Police, organised the auction of 153 seized vehicles earning an income of Rs. 46.94 lakh. More than 90% of the vehicles in the district were four wheelers as they were mainly used to transport illicit arrack. Most of these four-wheelers were seized in surprise raids conducted by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing over the past few years, the police said.   An auction was held on the parade ground for the Armed Reserved wing at the Superintendent of Police office with more than 200 visitors taking part||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-vehicles-fetch-over-rs-1-cr-in-vellore-tiruvannamalai/article36801959.ece
03 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘No vaccination, no liquor’||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy has announced that Tasmac retail shops should sell liquor bottles to customers only on production of COVID-19 vaccination certificate or SMS received on their mobile phone. In a statement, Mr. Meghanath also warned action against TASMAC salespersons under Disaster Management Act if they sell liquor bottles without ensuring that the customer had been inoculated. 70,000 doses available e The Collector added that 70,000 doses of vaccines were available in the district for the fourth mega vaccination camp to be held on Sunday and appealed to the people to make use of the opportunity. The camps will be held at 900 locations. All eligible persons aged above 18 can get themseves vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vaccination-no-liquor-collector/article36801779.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Re-empowering the grassroots||The rural local bodies elections for nearly 24,000 seats in nine districts, scheduled for October 6 and 9, would have been a routine affair, as they constitute, in effect, a part of the elections held in December 2019. But, in May this year, Fort St. George, the seat of power in Tamil Nadu, saw a change of guard with the AIADMK losing power in the Assembly election to the DMK, which remained in the Opposition for 10 consecutive years. The political change and the subsequent events give a new context to the local bodies elections wherein the conventional party-based system is for members of wards of panchayat unions and district panchayats. In the parlance of political parties, a ward of panchayat union is called a 5,000-member ward and that of district panchayat a 50,000-elector ward. In respect of ward members and presidents of village panchayats, the party-less system of elections is followed. Naturally, the ruling DMK and its allies view these elections as an opportunity to get the public endorsement which they got five months ago reiterated. With their alliance remaining intact, they are hopeful of romping home this time, too. As the new government is not even six months old, its supporters are of the view that there is hardly anything that can be held against it. At the same time, the Opposition front, led by the AIADMK, according to the ruling alliance, has weakened with the exit of the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), which has decided to go it alone. In seven of the nine poll-bound districts in the northern region, the PMK is perceived to be a strong force. Its spokesperson K. Balu asserts, “The results of the local bodies elections [which will be out from October 12] will demonstrate again that we are the third force in the State.”  It is not that there are no rumblings within the ruling front. For example, in a ward of the Tenkasi panchayat union in the south, the Communist Party of India and the DMK have put up their nominees, according to information available on the website of the State Election Commission (SEC). K. Balakrishnan, State secretary of the CPI(M), acknowledges that the seat-sharing arrangement, which happens in respect of the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, does not operate the same way in the case of local bodies. “Where there exists an understanding for seat-sharing, we, the Left, are contesting together as part of the broad alliance. At the same time, where no agreement has been reached, we are contesting separately. However, there is no problem among all our partners at the State level.” Durai Murugan, DMK’s general secretary and Water Resources Minister, dismisses reports of rumblings as inconsequential and maintains that the alliance is facing the elections united. “In some places, there may be inevitable candidates but their party strength may not be such that the seats can be given to the parties of such candidates,” he explains. Besides the DMK government’s welfare measures in the last five months, the way COVID-19 has been handled will stand the government in good stead, he says. However, the AIADMK, despite suffering an electoral setback recently, does not seem to be lagging behind its arch-rival in its quest for power at the grassroots level. Its two prime leaders, Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam, who did not get involved personally in electioneering in December 2019, have chosen to adopt a different strategy by visiting the nine districts this time. While the main Opposition party has accommodated the BJP in many wards of the panchayat unions and the district panchayats, it has allotted only panchayat union wards to the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar). Yet, this front, too, suffers from the problem of one constituent taking on another. In a Kallakurichi district panchayat ward, the BJP is pitted against the dominant party. The PMK’s departure from the AIADMK-led alliance may cause some loss of votes here and there in the north, “but it has given rise to the possibility of my party getting closer to non-Vanniyar Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes,” points out a senior leader of the AIADMK in the region. He sounds confident of his party retaining its vote base, if not increasing its share. In support of this contention, he refers to the spirit with which former Law Minister and party strongman in Villupuram, C. Ve. Shanmugam is working in the district. There are other parties in the fray such as the Naam Tamilar Katchi, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, the Makkal Needhi Maiam and the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam. Important for the people The rural local bodies elections are important not just for the parties. They hold greater significance for people, too, as they bring them closer to the institutions of local self-government. “I could see greater participation of youth this time than two years ago,” says S. Nandakumar, general secretary of ‘Thannatchi,’ a civil society organisation. He was part of a group of activists, under the banner of Gandhiyam Muneduppom Kuttiyakkam, who went around the five poll-bound districts in August to gauge the mood and sensitise people to the importance of the rural local bodies. Also, women and members of self-help groups and persons with disabilities have taken to the polling process with zeal, he points out. S. Gokul, another activist hailing from the Wallajabad panchayat union of Kancheepuram district, comes up with a curious angle to the enhanced interest of the youth in the election process. “In the last five years, when there was no elected body, the absence of elected presidents and the presence of special officers saw more youth taking part at gram sabha meetings than in the past. They have extended their interest to the electoral battle,” Mr. Gokul says, adding that “social capital” of young candidates who have done substantive work in their village panchayats is even getting better reception than the “money power” of certain candidates. However, E. Vidhubala, a psycho-oncologist and social activist, who is based out of Tirunelveli district, feels that a lot more has to happen on the ground for the real benefits of the elected local bodies to be realised. Women in greater numbers are there this time than in the past; but, invariably, they are seen as proxies of their husbands. Generally, there is reluctance among several sections to contest in the elections. “And even if you do genuine social work, you are viewed as a person who is doing it for personal gain during elections,” Dr. Vidhubala says, adding that in parts of Thoothukudi district, there are villages where people are not even aware of gram sabha meetings. There are several stages to be crossed for the State to be recognised as a path-breaker in panchayat raj institutions. Sections of activists and academics are optimistic that Tamil Nadu, with its many inherent advantages, can be a trendsetter. They cite how the State is continuing with its party-less system for village panchayats despite some Scheduled Caste presidents having run into hurdles to their functioning. “There is a view that if the presidents are elected on party lines, they will be having the support of their parties, which will take care of the problem that they are having now,” says V. Ragupathy, an academic. The State Election Commission has started the preliminary work for elections to the urban local bodies. Ever since the elections to the urban local bodies began to be held under the Nagarpalika Act 25 years ago, success stories of these civic bodies and councillors have been few and far between. This is why this view — the possibility of activists like Mr. Nandakumar and Mr. Gokul at the village level acting as a positive influence on the urban local bodies — gains credence.  But, it [PMK’s exit from alliance] has given rise to the possibility of my party getting closer to non-Vanniyar Backward Classes and SCs Senior leader AIADMK   Social capital of young candidates who have done substantive work... is getting better reception than the money power of certain candidates S. Gokul Activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-empowering-the-grassroots/article36801680.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Money matters’||Be it in Tenkasi in the south or those parts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts which are closer to Chennai, money power permeates the system. A senior functionary of a major party in a northern district says he has come across reports of presidents of village panchayats spending up to Rs. 1 crore during the elections. The talk in political circles is that allurement can be as high as Rs. 7,000 a voter. “Some people have turned the rural local bodies elections into a grand festival with lavish spending,” quips an office-bearer of another party in Tenkasi. In the south, candidates for village panchayat president, a post that is being contested on non-party lines, have planned to spend up to Rs. 50 lakh each, he says. The sum includes Rs. 500 per person for food, liquor and cash for being part of the crowd that accompanies the candidates during campaign every day. And, at least, 15-50 persons are always seen with them in the last few days. When asked for reaction, an official of the State Election Commission says he will have surveillance intensified in general and in areas around Chennai in particular. In a release issued on Thursday, the Commission said that till September 28, election officials seized, among others, Rs. 33.9 lakh in cash, 16.4 kg of sandalwood and 1,009 liquor bottles. The money factor is not the only dimension to the elections. Long-standing issues in the nine districts going to the polls do figure in the political discourse. In Kancheepuram, a symbol of culture and temple architecture, voters expect their representatives to promote spiritual tourism with a better bus link to Chennai and provide civic amenities. People of Chengalpattu, largely into farming, want the elected bodies to have more check-dams built across the Palar. A host of socio-economic problems continues to plague Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts, where acute unemployment has caused the outmigration of youth in droves. Water scarcity is becoming another major problem in these districts. In several rural parts of Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, the availability of amenities still remains a distant dream. ( With inputs from S.   Sundar in Madurai, R.   Srikanth in Kancheepuram,   S. Prasad in Cuddalore,   and D. Madhavan in   Vellore ) D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/money-matters/article36801678.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No subsistence allowance to suspended staff: panel||The Public Information Officer, Commissionerate of Town Panchayat, informed that a total of 102 employees were under suspension and 42 of them were suspended under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The term of their suspension ranged between 2 months and 18 years. The details of the total amount paid to them as subsistence allowance “were not available with the Commissionerate office”. The Commission, referring to the rules, noted that suspended employees were entitled to 50% wages in the 0-90 days period, 75% during 90-180 days and full wages after 180 days. While hearing another petition calling for details of sexual harassment complaints filed by students of government and government-aided schools, unaided schools, universities, colleges and other educational institutions and the action taken on those complaints, the Commission was told by the public authority of the School Education Department that 232 FIRs were registered against its employees/staff/teachers for sexual harassment. The number did not include FIRs registered on complaints filed for such offences at colleges, universities and other educational/training institutions. The cases were in various stages of judicial process. In a few cases, reinstatement orders had been passed pending criminal proceedings, while in some others the accused persons were convicted after a prolonged trial. In one case relating to staff/teachers suspended for sexual harassment, the parents of a victim sought information on the action taken against a suspended teacher. The Commission was informed that the teacher facing charges of a sexual offence was posted at another institution. There too, he was suspended on a similar charge. The victim’s parents expressed distress because such staff members were enjoying subsistence allowance after committing the offence repeatedly. ‘Bifurcate offences’ Passing orders after hearing both petitions, Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj said the serving employees were demoralised because those suspended on grave charges such as corruption and sexual offences were enjoying full pay while they had to share the work-load (of the suspended staff). It would be prudent to bifurcate the offences committed by a civil servant and pay subsistence allowance to only those who had not committed offences that involved moral turpitude, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-subsistence-allowance-to-suspended-staff-panel/article36801707.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Estimated population for vaccination revised||The State’s earlier mid-year population (2020) of above 18 years was estimated to be 6,06,15,919 — 3,86,95,314 persons aged 18-44, 1,32,92,281 aged 45-59 and 86,28,324 aged above 60. Officials said that earlier, Tamil Nadu was following a slightly higher denominator based on the projections of the State Bureau of Health Intelligence. With the target population revised, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the above 60 years base had increased within the overall picture. According to data available with the Health Department, 11,57,82,000 vaccine doses were required for the revised population of 5,78,91,000. The total doses supplied was 4,67,11,300. As of October 1, the first dose coverage stood at 62% (3,60,60,743), while the second dose coverage stood at 20% (1,17,58,635). In total, 4,78,19,378 doses were administered. So far, the 45-59 age group accounted for the highest first dose coverage of 69%, while the second dose coverage stood at 27%. In the 18-44 category, 57% received the first dose, while the second dose coverage was 13%. Among senior citizens, 42% received the first dose and 18% the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/population-estimate-for-vaccination-revised/article36801695.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||03-10-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph: 28152166 Today @ 10.30 am Lec. Dem. on THE SABHA CULTURE OF CHENNAI - a humorous talk by Historian Sri. V.Sriram. At 6.30 pm Nadigar Thilagam Sivaji Ganesan's Birthday Celebrations Musical Audio Visual Presentation, by Vani Kala Sudhakara Sri.Y.Gee.Mahendra at Vanimahal. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/03-10-2021-city-cinema/article36801693.ece
03 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Union Minister: Congress has led corrupt governments for decades||“The Congress has led corrupt governments for decades. It is responsible for maladministration at the Centre and several States. Siddaramaiah should speak about such things before he comments on the BJP,” said Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayanaswamy in Belagavi on Saturday. “All the 57 years that the Congress was in power (at the Centre), there were fights between various communities in several States. There were complaints of corruption and maladministration. Congress leaders did not address any of these issues. The former CM should speak about this,” he said. He was in Belagavi to distribute houses to the poor under Centrally sponsored schemes. “Congress allowed Dr. B.R. Ambedkar to resign rather than provide property rights to women and other rights under the Hindu Code Bill. Will Mr Siddu speak about this?” The Union Minister participated in a cleanliness drive in the social welfare department hostel in Sangameshwar Nagar. He said that all Ministers and other elected representatives were told to go to slums, government SC/ST hostels, and other areas to participate in cleaning activities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-minister-congress-has-led-corrupt-governments-for-decades/article36801802.ece
03 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sindholi’s experiment with self-reliance||The Kanakadasa Sheep Rearing and Wool Producers Cooperative Society of Sindholi village in Belagavi district has been helping shepherds and weavers for over half a century, influenced by the Gandhian ideals of Swadeshi, village industry, and self-reliance. Started by progressive wool farmer G.K. Bekkinakeri in 1967, the society that began with nine members, two workers, and 10 sheep rearing families is today categorised an ‘A’ class society by the Department of Cooperation. It has over 500 members who produce around 32,000 shawls, blankets, rugs, and other products, leading to an annual turnover of around Rs. 6 crore. “We serve over 2,500 families in 22 villages surrounding Sindholi. We have created thousands of direct and indirect jobs,” says Ramalingappa Anagolkar, chairman of the society and one of the founders. The society has never taken a bank loan since inception, the octogenarian declares proudly. Among his fondest memories are supplying blankets and rugs to the Indian Army during the Kargil conflict. The society relies on the Khadi and Village Industries Commission for financial support and technical upgrade. It has built houses for around 100 workers, and has facilitated sanctioning of loans to over 10,000 shepherd families till now. All its members are covered under a group insurance scheme. An average family makes up to Rs. 400 per day. The society collects the thread and distributes it among weavers who use handlooms and pit looms to make shawls, blankets, and rugs. Sale centres The new generation of sheep farmers, who have taken over the society management, haveset up two exhibition-cum-sale centres near Sambra airport and in Sindholi village. “We are also planning to have our own e-commerce website,” said Malleshappa Bheemappa, a young man who has recently taken over as secretary of the society. But old loyalists have stayed too. Five women, who were the first batch of spinning wheel workers, still come to work. “Our children are settled. But we come as we still feel the urge to work,” said Gangavva Ramappa, who is in her 70s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindholis-experiment-with-self-reliance/article36801659.ece
03 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||College Road renamed as Tyagaveera Sirasangi Lingaraj College Road||The famed College Road in Belagavi will henceforth be known as Tyagaveera Sirasangi Lingaraj College Road. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and other dignitaries unveiled a plaque on Saturday. The road has been named after Sirasangi Lingaraj Desai, a philanthropist whose donations helped the Karnataka Lingayat Education Society set up some institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-road-renamed-as-tyagaveera-sirasangi-lingaraj-college-road/article36801800.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Finding a path to the ideal of Swaraj in the 21st century||Inspired by the idea of Swaraj and with the aim of creating a “non-violent social order”, Sumanas Koulagi’s grandparents Surendra and Girija Koulagi founded the Janapada Seva Trust at Melkote in 1960. Growing up with what he calls an “overdose of Gandhi”, there was a time when he felt that most of the Mahatma’s ideas were outdated. Now, at the age of 28, Mr. Sumanas Koulagi holds a different view. “I have always been interested in wildlife and ecology. The conflict between conservation and development slowly brought me to Gandhian philosophy. Gandhi and J.C. Kumarappa seem to hold many answers to questions that the world faces today, including climate change,” he told The Hindu.  Mr. Sumanas Koulagi completed his doctoral thesis on the ‘Development as Swaraj and a Quest for a Non-violent Social Order’ from the University of Sussex in the U.K. earlier this year. The idea of Swaraj — a community or even an individual leadinga self-sustaining sustainable life — is important. He believes that development models need to be tweaked to encompass Gandhian ideals, but we need to find our own path. “Swaraj is a normative idea. We need to separate this idea from the paths Gandhi adopted to reach that ideal. We need to find our own paths towards that ideal of Swaraj. Trying to tread the same path that Gandhi took won’t work,” he said, adding that though Gandhian ideas may seem outdated, as a normative idea they remain the most relevant to today’s age of global climate change. Physical labour Mr. Sumanas Koulagi now works with the khadi unit of the trust. “Khadi and physical labour is only seen till now in terms of employment. But I see human physical labour to be the most eco-friendly forms of energy. ,” he said. He hopes to steer the trust’s activists towards ecological concerns in the future.  Though Gandhian ideas may seem outdated, as a normative idea they remain the most relevant to today’s age of global climate change. Sumanas Koulagi, Janapada Seva Trust, Melkote||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finding-a-path-to-the-ideal-of-swaraj-in-the-21st-century/article36801663.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After death of BMTC worker, his wife, two children found dead||A woman whose husband had passed away, reportedly because of COVID-related complications, was found dead with her two children at their residence in Prakruthi Layout on Friday night. The police, who have recovered a note, said it appeared to be case of suicide. The deceased have been identified as Vasantha (40), her son Yeshwanth (15), and daughter Nischitha (6). The incident came to light when neighbours alerted the police when no one from the family came out of the house. In the note, the woman said that she did not want to be a burden on anyone after the death of her husband. Vasantha’s husband Prasanna Kumar had been working with the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) for 12 years as a driver-cum-conductor at the Peenya depot. In August 2020, he allegedly died of COVID-related complications. However, the family of the deceased did not receive the relief promised by the State government. It is said that the deceased was not on the list of ‘COVID-19 warriors’ prepared by the BMTC. When contacted, Anbu Kumar, MD of BMTC, said, “It is an unfortunate incident. After the death of the employee, the BMTC paid Rs. 6 lakh to the family as Provident Fund and insurance benefits. Payment of more than Rs. 3 lakh was pending.” He told The Hindu that the family had not received any COVID-19 relief. “The BMTC had identified 31 COVID-19 warriors who died. Kin of four COVID-19 warriors have received the relief amount. There are a set of parameters to pay compensation. I do not think that the deceased employee was on the list of warriors. I joined the corporation recently and will look into the issue,” he added. In April this year, when BMTC employees had gone on strike, paying compensation to the family members of employees who died after contracting COVID-19 was one of the major demands. The Madanayakanahalli police have taken up a case of unnatural death.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-death-of-bmtc-worker-his-wife-two-children-found-dead/article36801644.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. keen to improve khadi, rural employment: CM||The State government will come out with initiatives for the improvement of khadi and rural employment, said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai at the Gandhi Seva Puraskar conferring function held at Gandhi Bhavan on Saturday. The award was accepted on behalf of Siddaganga Mutt by Shivappa for 2021. The 2020 award to freedom fighter Meera Bai Koppikar was accepted by Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol. “Mahatma Gandhi was not just a freedom fighter. He was the spirit behind moral India,” said Mr. Bommai. Drawing a parallel between Gandhiji and 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara, he said that work is worship. The government was building Gandhi Bhavans in every district of the State. The one at Davangere was recently inaugurated, while those at Shivamogga and Ballari districts were ready for inauguration, he added. Theatre director and activist Prasanna along with Kosha start-up released a technology to authenticate handloom fabric at Saturday’s event in Gandhi Bhavan. The technology was developed by the start-up, which had won the Start-up Karnataka Elevate Award in 2020. Tiranga Yatra The Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee organised a Tiranga Yatra where hundreds of members carried a 500-ft-long tricolour for more than a kilometre at Kammanahalli. Addressing the rally, Indian Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivasa said the Congress’ foundation was laid on the ideology of unity in diversity. “Our Father of the Nation has shown us the way to live harmoniously in society and the Congress will never dilute its core ideology at any cost,” he said. Programmes were held in BJP and Congress offices to mark the birth anniversary of Gandhiji and the former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-keen-to-improve-khadi-rural-employment-cm/article36801665.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||B.Tech student, aide caught peddling drugs||The Adugodi police arrested a 19-year-old B.Tech student from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh and his Bengaluru-based associate for allegedly peddling marijuana and hashish oil in Bengaluru. The police seized from them 5.1 kg of marijuana and 540 gm of hashish oil worth around Rs. 27 lakh. According to the police, the student, Dinesh Kumar, started dealing in drugs to pay for his own addiction. A year ago, he teamed up with a wall painter from L.R. Nagar, Arun Dayal (22). “Investigation revealed that Dinesh sourced the drugs from his contacts in AndhraPradesh and Odisha. He would smuggle them into Bengaluru in his backpack and hand them over to Arun, who would sell them in Bengaluru. The duo shared the profits,” said a police officer. Both have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “They are now in custody. We are probing the extent of their network,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/btech-student-aide-caught-peddling-drugs/article36801637.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||636 new COVID-19 cases, four deaths in State||Karnataka on Saturday reported 636 cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,77,225. Bengaluru Urban saw 245 cases and one death. With four deaths, the toll rose to 37,811. This is apart from 28 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 745 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 29,27,029. The State now has 12,356 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.37%, the case fatality rate was 0.62%. As many as 1,69,319 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of tests in the State rose to 4,79,15,270.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/636-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-in-state/article36801639.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With landfills filling up, BBMP writes to UDD||With three of the seven waste processing plants closed for several years, the pressure on landfills for dumping mixed waste generated in the city has increased. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has taken up the issue with the State government after two city MLAs expressed the need for funds to develop villages around existing and proposed quarries. In a letter to the Urban Development Department (UDD) a few weeks ago, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that 71.42% of the waste generated in the city —nearly 2,700 tonnes —— is dumped in the existing quarry pits. The landfill at Mittaganahalli is fast filling up. The BBMP is looking at another quarry pit in Bagalur as an alternative, but is facing opposition from the local community. While Mittaganahalli comes under Mahadevapura Assembly constituency, Bellahalli and Bagalur come under Byatarayanapura constituency. Mr. Gupta, in his letter, stated that the Mahadevapura MLA, Arvind Limbavali, has sought Rs. 150 crore for the development of villages surrounding Mittaganahalli, while the MLA for Byatarayanapura, Krishna Byre Gowda, has sought Rs. 100 crore for developing villages around the Bellahalli and Bagalur quarries. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, the civic chief said the BBMP usually starts looking for alternative places where scientific landfills can be established when the quarry pits are fast filling up. “We have apprised the government about these developments. It is now up to the government to take a call on sanctioning the funds sought by the elected representatives,” he said. ‘Trash’ure hunt   Around 50 citizens, including marathon runners and 15 BBMP marshals, participated in the second edition of UnPlog10K. They covered M.G. Road, Richmond Road, Residency Road, Church Street, St. Mark’s Road, and Museum Road, only to find no black spots or public urination spots. The runners included Arjuna awardee Reeth Abraham, marathon runner Vidya Laxman, and BBMP chief marshal Col. Rajbir Singh. A representative of The Ugly Indian, which has worked with the BBMP to eliminate black spots over the past few years, said, “We are now looking at taking up similar initiatives in Kammanahalli, Ballari Road, Malleswaram, Koramangala, and HSR Layout.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-landfills-filling-up-bbmp-writes-to-udd/article36801643.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Literacy programme||As many as 100 convicts at the Central Prison in Parappana Agrahara were enrolled in a literacy programme organised jointly by the Department of Prisons and Correctional Services and the Education Department on Saturday. As part of the project, 100 illiterate convicts were selected and divided into batches of of 10. One literate inmate, a graduate, will be assigned to each batch for six months. After the completion of the batch, the trained inmates will be issued certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/literacy-programme/article36801648.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increase in Karnataka excise revenue||With a spike in the consumption of Indian Made Liquor (IML) and beer in the first half of the current financial year (2021-22), the Excise Department has recorded a 26% increase in revenue collection, of Rs. 2,539.40 crore, compared to the corresponding period in the previous year. The department’s revenue collection in the last six months of the current fiscal year was Rs. 12,305.03 crore. With the jump in sales, the department has recorded more than 50% of its revenue target set for the year (Rs. 24,580 crore). In the first half of the last fiscal year (2020-21) sales were hit owing to COVID-19 induced lockdowns and turnover was recorded at Rs. 9765.63 crore. Thefigures for IML show that sales increased to 314.99 lakh carton boxes during April-September this year from 249.49 lakh carton boxes in April-September last year, according to official sources. The sale beer increasedto 110.35 lakh carton boxes in April-September this year against 83.34 lakh carton boxes during the same period last year. With most curbs imposed on bars, pubs and restaurants being eased,the sale of liquor is expected to increase in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-karnataka-excise-revenue/article36801657.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) is ‘B’ team of neither Congress nor BJP: HDK||As the Congress and the BJP are making a bid to poach JD(S) leaders, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has lashed out at both the national parties saying that his party is not dependent on other parties to grab power, while both the national parties were knocking the doors of the JD(S) to secure power in the Kalaburagi City Corporation council. The Congress which had called the JD(S) the ‘B’ team of the the BJP sought support of the party and formed the coalition government soon after the 2018 polls, he said, and added, “Our party is ‘B’ team of neither the Congress nor the BJP. We are not bothered about who quits the party.” JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj and MLAs G.T. Deve Gowda and K. Srinivas Gowda have decided to quit the party. A few months ago, former JD(S) legislators MLAs Madhu Bangarappa, M.S. Akki, and Ramesh Babu joined the Congress. The JD(S) leader recalled events that occurred after the fractured mandate in the Assembly elections in 2004 and 2018 when both Congress and BJP leaders came to the doorsteps of the JD(S) to form the government. Now, with the JD(S) having won four seats in the Kalaburagi City Corporation council, both the national parties were seeking the party’s support, Mr. Kumarswamy said. With regard to attrition from its party fold, Mr. Kumaraswamy told reporters that the JD(S) had no shortage of leaders and the party had grown with the blessings of lakhs of workers and not leaders. Leaders such as Siddaramaiah, K.R. Ramesh Kumar, R.V. Deshpande, B.L. Shankar, and many others now in the Congress had grown in the JD(S), he said. Talking about decision to name Muslim candidates in the byelections to Hangal and Sindgi Assembly seats, the former Chief Minister said the party need not ask permission of national parties to field candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-is-b-team-of-neither-congress-nor-bjp-hdk/article36801656.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Be liberal in lending to MSMEs’||The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has welcomed extension of the EmergencyCredit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to MSMEs and urged banks to be more liberal in lending to small and medium industries. In a press release, it said the extension of the ECLGS for another six months, till March 2022, by the Centre would help more embattled MSMEs to cope withthe devastating effects of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. “Many micro and small entrepreneurscontinueto face reluctance on the part of bankers to lend collateral-free loans under the ECLGS even though it is incumbent on them to do so, and this reluctance is due to fears of accountability that could fall on them in the near future in case the loan gets bad,” it said. “The Finance Minister and the RBI should prevail upon banks to lend liberally under the scheme otherwise the purpose for which it was announced will be defeated,” KASSIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/be-liberal-in-lending-to-msmes/article36801661.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held with crystal meth||The Railway Protection Force Shakti team caught a 44-year-old man from Odisha carrying methamphetamine (crystal meth) worth Rs. 3.2 crore inhis backpack at Yeshwantpur railway station on October 1. The total weight of the consignment was 640 gm. This is one of the largest seizures of crystal meth by the RPF recently. Assistant sub-inspector Tanuja N.P. of the Shakti team became suspicious of the man, who went in the opposite direction on seeing RPF personnel. She alerted her colleagues and intercepted the man. On being questioned, he claimed to be carrying banned psychotropic substances. “The accused is a peddler who is part of an inter-State racket. He was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and taken into custody,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-with-crystal-meth/article36801638.ece
03 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Document verification from Oct. 11 to 13||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) will hold original document verification and interview from October 11 to 13 for candidates selected for 24 posts of Assistant Conservator of Forest – Group A in the Department of Forests, Environment and Ecology. The documentverification process and the interview will be held at the KPSC Central Office in Bengaluru. For details, visithttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in/eligibility-list.html||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/document-verification-from-oct-11-to-13/article36801660.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in power supply||There will be disruption in power supply on Monday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the areas serviced by 66/11 kV Kachamaranahalli MUSS. According to a release, the areas to be affected are: Kachamaranahalli, Varthur, Sulikunte, Gunjur, Panathur Dinne, Balagere, Whitefield Main Road, Ramagondanahalli, Gunjur Hosahalli, Varthur Main Road, Vinayaka Layout, Balageri Road, Prakash Layout, and Madura Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-power-supply/article36801645.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aim is to raise forest cover to 30%: Minister||Forest Minister Umesh Katti said the government aims to increase the forest cover to 30%, from the existing 20% of the State’s land. He was speaking after Governor Thaavarchand Gehlot flagged off a walkathon, ‘Walk for Wildlife Conservation’, as part of the 37th Wildlife Week. “We need to protect both the forests and wildlife for our survival, as many things in our life are linked to them,” Mr. Katti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aim-is-to-raise-forest-cover-to-30-minister/article36801649.ece
03 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest for better Net connectivity||Hundreds of residents of villages in Channagonda Gram Panchayat in Sagar taluk took out a protest march demanding better Internet connectivity on Saturday. They walked from Kattinakaru to Kogaru, a distance of about 10 km, and stopped traffic on Sagar-Bhatkal Road, as part of the protest. The residents of Kattinakaru, Karani, Halasasi and other villages have launched “No Network, No Voting” campaign demanding better Internet connectivity. The students in the area had been facing difficulty attending online classes during the COVID-19 lockdown and the techies, who had returned home, could not work from home. Besides them, rural people had to visit government offices many times to get their services, which require Internet connectivity, delivered. The residents launched the campaign stating that they would not vote in any election unless the network was improved in the region. Slogans raised The protesters staged dharna on the road and raised slogans. The leaders, who addressed the gathering, said they would not stop their agitation until their demand was fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-for-better-net-connectivity/article36801920.ece
03 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Congress workers take out 16-km protest march||Congress workers of Tirthahalli Assembly constituency took out a march from Koppasara to the forest office at Mandagadde alleging that the Forest Department officials had been harassing non-BJP people in the taluk. Former Minister Kimmane Ratnakar led the protest march covering 16 km. Mr. Ratnakar and his supporters alleged that the officials had been harassing poor farmers, who are not in favour of the BJP, at the behest of BJP leaders including Home Minister Araga Jnanendra. ‘False cases’ The officers registered false cases against Congress supporters to harass them. People had been fed up with the ill-treatment of the officers in the last three years, the former Minister said. The protesters staged a dharna in front of the Forest Department office at Mandagadde and raised slogans against the State government and BJP leaders. Thirthahalli Block Congress president Kestur Manjunatha and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-workers-take-out-16-km-protest-march/article36801918.ece
03 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Following Gandhiji’s ideals right way to celebrate his birth anniversary’||Following values that Mahatma Gandhi upheld throughout his life would be the ideal way of celebrating his birth anniversary, said Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda here on Saturday. He spoke at a programme organised to celebrate Gandhiji's birth anniversary at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Mahatma Gandhi led the fight against the British for India’s freedom. And, later Lal Bahadur Shastri showed the country how one should fight to retain the hard-earned freedom. “If we follow at least a few of the principles they taught, our lives would be better”, he said. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish recalled the contributions of both Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri. Gandhiji taught the world the importance of truth and non-violence. Tribute to Shastri Shastri taught the importance of simplicity and honesty. “Everyone should follow the principles they upheld”, he said. Freedom fighter H.M. Shivanna, Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh and other officers were present. The students of Kendriya Vidyalaya presented bhajans on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/following-gandhijis-ideals-right-way-to-celebrate-his-birth-anniversary/article36801910.ece
03 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Bike rider dies in mishap||A bike rider died after he was hit by a car near Hirisave in Channarayapatna taluk on Friday evening. He has been identified as B.A.Mahadev, 48, of Gonikoppa in Kodagu district. Mahadev was returning after a visit to his relative’s place at Dodderi Kaval near Hirisave when the mishap occurred on B.M.Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bike-rider-dies-in-mishap/article36801916.ece
03 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Drill held on rescuing people from flood waters||A drill on rescuing people caught in flood waters was carried out by NDRF personnel in the backwaters of Kadra reservoir in Uttara Kannada district recently. Leading the NDRF team, Ashok Shinde gave information on how affected persons were rescued and administered first-aid on the spot. He also explained how one could save himself or herself especially when caught in flood waters. A drill to the effect was also conducted. Another member of NDRF team, Sanjivkumar, said that it was essential for people living along the river banks to know the basics of self protection and should also know about the steps to be taken during floods. Speaking on the occasion, Director of Kaiga Generating Station Rajiv Kumar Gupta said that as Kadra reservoir was located in the Western Ghats, flood owing to heavy rains was a common phenomenon. “There is need for deploying a permanent team of NDRF for Kali river and Kadra reservoir. I will take up the issue with the Deputy Commissioner of Uttar Kannada district,” he said. Senior official Pramod G. Raichur and others were present. Along with NDRF team, teams of CISF, home guards and medical experts were also part of the drill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drill-held-on-rescuing-people-from-flood-waters/article36801806.ece
03 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Modi, Shah and RSS plotted my defeat: Mallikarjun Kharge||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that his defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Kalaburagi, was a well-hatched conspiracy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and the RSS leaders. “It was not the people of the constituency or the voters responsible for my defeat, but Mr. Modi, Mr. Shah, and a group of RSS leaders plotted for my defeat in the Lok Sabha elections,” Mr. Kharge reiterated. He was addressing the gathering at a programme organized to felicitate him on his maiden visit to the city after being nominated Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. “Mr. Modi indicated to me about my defeat prior to the elections, as he was afraid of my performance in the Parliament as the Leader of the Opposition. He did not take it in the democratic spirit and acted with vengeance, but I will continue to fight till my last breath as the fight is for principles and ideologies that I won’t compromise with,” Mr. Kharge said and added, “I will continue to fight for their rights as long as I have the blessings of my people [Kalaburagi district].” The leader said that his fight is for inclusive growth, development, upliftment of the downtrodden, and protection of secular principles enshrined in the Constitution. He cautioned that the RSS aimed to polarize and divide the people on communal lines. He alleged that the Modi-led government at the Centre started selling the assets created by the Congress governments over the years. He also criticized the Centre’s decision to change the names of the schemes launched by Congress. Lashing out at BJP leaders for claiming credit while doing nothing for the country he said, “Whatever India is today on the world map, it is owing to the efforts of successive Congress governments,” Mr. Kharge said and added that Mr. Modi, Mr. Shah, and his leaders were not even born when Congress members were fighting for Independence. “Congress leaders were beaten up by the British, sent to jail, and sacrificed their lives for the Independence of India. Today, BJP leaders are enjoying the fruits of the struggle and still ask Congress what it has done in the last seven decades,” he added. “We [Congress] had brought in the Right to Education Act, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, for the poor. He alleged that BJP-led government in the last seven years has ruined India. Modi came to power promising 2 lakh jobs every year, far from giving 14 crore employment in seven years, more than 3 crore people [1.5 crore each in the public and private sector] lost their jobs under BJP’s rule, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-shah-and-rss-plotted-my-defeat-mallikarjun-kharge/article36801809.ece
03 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Birth anniversaries of Gandhiji, Shastri celebrated||The birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadhur Shastri were celebrated at Sharnbasveshwar Residential Composite PU College in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Led by Shrishail Hogade, in-charge of the college, all the teaching and non-teaching staff and students offered floral tributes. Some of the students of IIPU delivered speeches on the life and work of Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion. “Gandhiji’s ideals such as truth and non-violence are universally applicable. If we follow them in our daily life, we can get rid of most of our problems,” Shreya Choudshetty said in her speech. “Gandhiji was the motivational force for millions of people in India and he encouraged them to get involve in the freedom movement. He never failed in his endeavours. It was his relentless fight backed by millions of patriotic Indians that defeated the British and helped India win her freedom,” Ketrina Reddy said in her speech. Aryan Jain, another student, shed light on Gandhiji’s contributions to the development of the poor and the marginalised sections of society. Another student Basavaraj focussed on Gandhiji’s fight against social evils such as untouchability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/birth-anniversaries-of-gandhiji-shastri-celebrated/article36801803.ece
03 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Tourism sector looking up’||Vice-Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Niranjan V. Nisty has said that the tourism sector, which was hit hard during the pandemic period, was looking up. “We can already see green shoots in the tourism sector and the future appears to be bright for the sector in India”. Addressing a gathering at the World Tourism Day programme organised by the Department of Tourism and Travel at the Dasoha Mahamane on the Sharnbasveshwar Shrine premises here recently, Dr. Nisty said the tourism sector and its subsidiaries were the one that took a severe blow in view of COVID-19 outbreak. Both domestic tourism and international tourism were affected due to the outbreak, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-sector-looking-up/article36801804.ece
03 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Grand welcome||M. Mallikarjun Kharge, who arrived in Kalaburagi for the first time after being nominated as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, received a red carpet welcome by party workers and supporters. The city had been decorated with Congress flags, arches, and large cutouts of the leader. Mr. Kharge landed at Kalaburagi airport at 11.40 a.m. and was received by local party leaders. Hundreds of bikes and four-wheelers followed him in a procession taken out from the airport to the venue of the felicitation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grand-welcome/article36801807.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Udupi declared as ODF Plus 1 district’||Udupi has been declared as open defecation-free plus one (ODF Plus 1) district, according to Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat. Individual toilets should have been built, solid waste management implemented fully, and liquid waste management should have commenced in ODF Plus 1 districts. Speaking at the district water and sanitation mission committee meeting in Udupi on Saturday, he said that all 155 gram panchayats in the district have now vehicles for the collection and disposal of solid waste. He asked all gram panchayats to dispose of solid waste scientifically and the solid and liquid resource management (SLRM) units should make a profit to manage the units on their own. The CEO asked the executive officers of taluk panchayats to instruct the gram panchayats to compulsorily reserve funds in their annual action plans of the 15th Finance Scheme for implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission. The panchayats should create awareness on the mission. If any family is having water connection and does not want to take a connection under the mission, the panchayats should take an undertaking from such a family in writing, he said. The CEO asked the schools to organise an awareness programme for students once in a month on solid waste management, liquid waste management, disposal of plastic, percolation pits, and the like. The resource persons should be identified, he said. Mr. Bhat released hand bills for creating awareness on sanitation and the Jal Jeevan Mission on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-declared-as-odf-plus-1-district/article36801888.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kota, Kateel take part in events to mark birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||While Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary initiated a State-wide drive to clean hostels managed by the Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Department, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel ran a few metres and purchased khadi clothes to celebrate the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri here on Saturday. District Congress members, including MLC K. Harish Kumar, former MLAs B. Ramanath Rai and J.R. Lobo, participated in a prayer session at the Mahatma Gandhi temple in Garodi and other events. Mr. Poojary came to the Post Metric Hostel of the department in Padua at 7 a.m. and had breakfast with the residents. He then worked with children to clean the premises and launch the State-wide cleaning drive in 5,500 residential schools and hostels. He then joined Mr. Kateel, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedvyas Kamath, and students of Pre-Metric and Post Metric Hostel of Backward Class Welfare and cleaned the hostel near KPT. Earlier, Mr. Kateel and ZP CEO Kumara flagged off the FIT India Freedom Run of the Nehru Yuva Kendra. Mr. Kateel ran for about 200 meters from Mangala Stadium. He then visited Khadi Gramodyog Samiti’s shop along with Mr. Kamath and BJP activists and bought Khadi clothes. Mr. Harish Kumar, Mr. Lobo and former MLC Ivan D’Souza were among the Congress activists at the prayer session in Garodi. They earlier garlanded statue of Mahatma Gandhi near Town Hall, along with DC K.V. Rajendra. Former Bantwal MLA B. Ramanath Rai joined Congress activists at the Congress office. Other events Other activities included a cleaning drive by volunteers at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple and other residents between Lady Hill Circle and the temple. The Dakshina Kannada Workings Journalists’ Union held Souharda Cricket Tournament in the city in which the teams from revenue, police and journalists took part. Dr. Rajendra and Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane inaugurated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kota-kateel-take-part-in-events-to-mark-birth-anniversary-of-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri/article36801902.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pangala Rabindra Nayak passes away||Senior transport operator of Udupi, Pangala Rabindra Nayak, 99, who shared the credit of introducing many private bus services both in the Malnad and the coastal belts, passed away in Udupi on Saturday. He was 99. Mr. Nayak ventured in the transport sector in 1951 by working in Hanuman Transport Company and became its Managing Director in 1972. He was also the Managing Director of Gajanana Motor Transport Company. He pursued his MSc in Physics from Bombay University and had worked as a technologist in the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, National Physical Laboratory, Delhi. Mr. Nayak had also donated for the development of Udupi district government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pangala-rabindra-nayak-passes-away/article36801890.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KUWSDB clears Rs. 320 cr. DPR on UGD project for Udupi||Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) has approved a Rs. 320 crore detailed project report (DPR) prepared for revamping the underground drainage network in Udupi city, according to Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat. Speaking at the birth anniversary programmes of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri at Bhujanga Park, Ajjarakad, in Udupi on Saturday, the MLA said that the Indrani rivulet has been polluted due to release of sewage into it. The sewage network in the city will be revamped. He said that Mahatma Gandhi had dreamt of a ‘Clean India’ and his vision was being fulfilled by Indians in the recent decade. The Centre will financially support the cause of clearing garbage across the nation under ‘Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban’ project. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that the lives of both iconic figures – Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri – are a model for everyone as they lived the life of simplicity. He said that as ‘Clean India’ programme is being organised from October 1 to 31 and aims at collecting and processing plastic waste from every household in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kuwsdb-clears-rs-320-cr-dpr-on-ugd-project-for-udupi/article36801899.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 100 new cases in Dakshina Kannada, 23 in Udupi||There were no COVID-19 deaths reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Saturday. Dakshina Kannada saw 100 new cases. With 109 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 920. The test positivity rate stood at 0.99%. A fine of Rs. 1,06,86,670 has so far been collected in 87,939 cases of norm violations. Udupi district reported 23 new cases of which 18 are from Udupi taluk, two from Kundapura and three from Karkala. While 17 people are in home isolation, six are in healthcare facilities. With 69 patients discharged, there were 131 active cases in the district. With 14,076 people vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 21,82,989. Of these, 15,00,853 have received their first dose and 6,82,136 their second. In Udupi district, 1,237 people were vaccinated taking the total to 13,39,346. Of these, 9,07,027 have received their first dose and 4,32,319 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-100-new-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-23-in-udupi/article36801903.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MSLC to hold various events in city today||Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSLC) has organised a host of activities in the city on Sunday to commemorate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav . All the events will be held between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. A walk and a cycle rally have been organised from A.B. Shetty Circle to Mangala stadium. A vintage cars and bikes carnival will be organised at A.B. Shetty Circle. Cultural events, a street festival, and a live art exhibition will be held at Mangala stadium. A drawing competition will be organised at Mangala stadium for those aged below 15 and those between 15 and 21 years. Topics will be announced on the spot. The public will be allowed to visit the ICCC at the Mangaluru City Corporation building in Lalbagh from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. In the live art programme, MSCL will provide canvas and paints. Brushes will have to be brought by the participants, a MSCL release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mslc-to-hold-various-events-in-city-today/article36801886.ece
03 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Balavana award for K.P. Rao||81-year-old software expert Kinnikambala Padmanabha Rao, popular as K.P. Rao, from Udupi district has been selected for this year’s Balavana Award. The award will be given on the birth anniversary of K. Shivaram Karanth at the Balavana in Puttur on October 10. Mr. Rao was instrumental in bringing out the Kannada keyboard. He developed the software for using Kannada in computers, tablets, and smartphones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/balavana-award-for-kp-rao/article36801892.ece
03 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two rescued at Panambur||Two young men from Bengaluru were saved by lifeguards at Panambur beach on Saturday. Prasad, 20, and Rakshith, 20, from Mattikere in Bengaluru, entered the sea and were caught in the rip current. Lifeguards brought the two back to the shore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-rescued-at-panambur/article36801893.ece
03 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru zoo gets two male gorillas from Germany||The Mysuru zoo’s long wait for displaying gorillas after the death of Polo, the Western Lowland gorilla that died in 2014, has at last ended with the zoo getting two male gorillas from Germany. The European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA)-Gorilla European Endangered Species Programme (EEP) agreed to spare the gorillas after the zoo’s persistent and long-drawn correspondence with it. The 14-year-old Thabo and 8-year-old Demba arrived here on August 19 from Germany and are currently in quarantine. The zoo management had talks with the Gorilla Foundation, a non-profit organisation coordinating gorilla programmes and exchanges with zoos across the globe, in the past for acquiring a pair of gorillas. Polo was gifted to Mysuru zoo by the Dublin zoo in 1995. It passed away in 2014, after having lived without a companion for 18 years even though the zoo tried to bring him a mate under animal-exchange programmes from abroad. Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that the EAZA-EEP spared the animals for nothing in return. “We need to take proper care of these animals which will be monitored by the donor,” he said. “The gorillas are in quarantine and will be put on display soon, maybe during the ensuing Dasara festivities, once we get the clearances” he replied. The Mysuru zoo is the only zoo in the country to house gorillas. When Polo was alive, the zoo was then the sole zoo housing the animal. The gorillas will be displayed in the newly-constructed enclosure, which was built by Infosys Foundation at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. This infrastructure played a key role in acquiring the animals, the director said. Major exchange deal The zoo also got two pairs of orangutans from Singapore and Malaysia as it managed to strike another major international animal exchange deal. The 17-year-old male, Merlin, and 13-year-old female, Atina, arrived from Singapore zoo while five-year-old male, Afa, and the 7-year-old female, Minnie, were brought from Malaysia zoo. In return, the Mysuru zoo has given two pairs of giraffes. Once displayed, the Mysuru zoo will become the country’s lone zoo to house the great ape. An orangutan was housed at Nandankanan zoo in Odisha a few years ago. According to the zoo records, the last time the zoo displayed orangutans was in the 70s and the zoo authorities’ best efforts thereafter to get an orangutan pair did not materialise. A natural enclosure for orangutans has been built at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh with funding from the Bharatiya Reserve Bank Note Mudran, Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-zoo-gets-two-male-gorillas-from-germany/article36801897.ece
03 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||We must adopt Gandhiji’s values, principles: Minister||Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar on Saturday gave a call for adopting the values and principles practised by Mahatma Gandhi and following in his footsteps. Speaking after paying floral tributes to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Square on the occasion of his 152nd birth anniversary here, he said the celebrations had been kept simple in view of the pandemic situation. He said the Mahatma fought against the British through truth and non-violence. “Besides recalling the valuable contributions of the father of the nation on his birth anniversary, we must make efforts to follow in his footsteps.” Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, MLA Tanveer Sait, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham and others were present. Later, the Minister and others took part in the “Sarva Dharma” prayer meeting held at the Town Hall. In Mandya, Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda took part in Mahatma Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations and also the 118th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri held at the Shivapura Satyagraha Soudha in Maddur. He recalled the contributions of the Mahatma and his philosophy, and also the importance of Shivapura in Maddur in the freedom movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-must-adopt-gandhijis-values-principles-minister/article36801912.ece
03 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sculptor Yogiraj Shilpi dead||Well-known sculptor B.S. Yogiraj Shilpi has died at a private hospital in Mysuru. A recipient of many awards including ‘Amarashilpi Jakanachari’ and Rajyothsava awards, Mr. Yogiraj Shilpi, 70, was undergoing treatment for the injuries he suffered during a recent road mishap when he passed away on Thursday night. He had fallen from a scooter on Lalitha Mahal Road on September 25. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. His last rites were performed on Friday in his native village Kebbehundi in T. Narsipura near here. A resident of Chamaraja Road in Fort Mohalla, he had trained several students in sculpting for the last 40 years at Brahmashri Shilpakala school set up by his father and sculptor B. Basavanna Shilpi. Prominent among his works is the seven-and-a-half ft. tall idol of Yoga Narasimha at Saligrama in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sculptor-yogiraj-shilpi-dead/article36801915.ece
03 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cleanliness drive in Mysuru Rly. Division||The Mysuru Railway Division on Saturday celebrated the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Vana near the Railway Sports Ground. Divisional Railway Manager Rahul Agarwal paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi by garlanding his bust. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Agarwal said that in recent years, the Ministry of Railways has been supporting the government’s cleanliness mission – Swachh Bharat Abhiyan – in many ways,.from introducing innovative sanitation in trains to green train corridors and making the tracks zero-discharge-free zone. Mysuru Division observed a special cleanliness fortnight drive – ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ – from September 16 to October 2. The start of the drive was with the theme of Swachh awareness, in which railway staff took the cleanliness pledge, and different activities were held across the division to raise awareness about Swachhta, said the DRM. Later in the day, the DRM administered the cleanliness pledge to officers and staff at Mysuru railway station. The housekeeping staff at the station were felicitated. Prizes were given away to the winners of the online essay competition on Swachh Bharat. A. Devasahayam and Budatti Srinivasalu, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, senior officers and staff participated in ‘Shramadan’ at Mysuru railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleanliness-drive-in-mysuru-rly-division/article36801914.ece
03 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Key roads in Mysuru to go one-way during Dasara||In anticipation of a rise in traffic density during the Dasara festivities that begin from October 7, the Mysuru City Police will be introducing the one-way rule on some key roads, especially in the city centre and around the palace. The rule will come into effect from October 7 and go on till the Dasara finale on October 15. Commissioner of Police Chandragupta has issued an order on creating one-way rule and also restrictions on parking vehicles on certain roads for smooth movement of vehicular traffic. Barring VIPs and VVIPs, the police have restricted movement of all kinds of vehicles on the roads coming under one-way rule from October 7 to 15 from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. With the Dasara illumination planned on a large scale this year with roads and junctions in 100-km radius to be brightly lit-up to enliven the festive season, the traffic density is bound to increase with the people turning up in big numbers. Roads around Mysuru Palace, New Sayyaji Rao Road from K.R. Circle to the Government Ayurveda College, the stretch from Nehru Circle to B.N. Road, the stretch from Chamaraja Double Road junction to Banumaiah’s College junction, and N. Madhavarao Circle on Thyagaraja Road to Chamaraja Double Road Junction will have the one-way rule. Vehicle parking has been banned on some stretches of key roads here from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. till the end of festivities. Throne assembled Meanwhile, the majestic golden throne was assembled at the Durbar Hall of the Palace on Friday at a special “muhurtha” that was followed by some rituals conducted by the palace priests. However, unlike the previous years, tourists may not get the glimpse of the royal throne as it won’t be kept for public display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/key-roads-in-mysuru-to-go-one-way-during-dasara/article36801923.ece
03 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Heritage Quiz to go virtual||The ‘Cycle Heritage Quiz 2021’ for students from classes 7, 8, 9 and 10 will be held online this year. It is organised by Cycle Pure Agarbathi. Students can register for free on https://l.cycle.in/SM-CHQ2021. The preliminary round will commence on November 12 and the national finale will be held on December 18. The quiz invites participants from more than 20 cities across India. There will befun-filled engagement activities on social media such as anagrams, puzzles and short quizzes for participants in the run-up to the preliminary rounds. Winners and runners-up will get prizes such as iPads, iPhones, Samsung Galaxy Tabs and cycle.in gift coupons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heritage-quiz-to-go-virtual/article36801922.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Music and dance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-and-dance/article36801895.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For Nada Habba||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-nada-habba/article36801652.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vijayanagara inaugurated at grand event||The pillar would be built in front of the district and taluk administrative complexes – 45-ft high outside the to-be-built district headquarters in Hosapete and 18-ft high in taluk headquarters. The Chief Minister also released documents, including the orders for the appointment of Deputy Commissioner, Superintendent of Police, and other district-level officers. Mr. Bommai said that the government would offer all financial assistance for the development of the new district. “A sum of Rs. 50 crore has already been sanctioned and we will give more money as and when required,” he added. Earlier in the day, a colourful cultural procession was taken out on the Ratha Beedi of Vadakaraya Temple. As many as 80 performing cultural troupes from different parts of the State participated in the procession displaying the socio-cultural heritage of the land. Mr. Yediyurappa, in his address, attributed the success of the formation of the new district to the “determined efforts” of Mr. Singh, who, he said, went on to fight for Vijayanagara district “risking his political career”. He said that formation of smaller taluks and districts helped in better administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayanagara-inaugurated/article36801812.ece
03 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vote JSP to power in 2024 to ensure Rayalaseema’s development: Pawan||JSP president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday exhorted people to bring his party to power in the 2024 elections to ensure development of the Rayalaseema Region. “Let us bring about a change in society through inclusiveness and taking along with us the minorities and the Boya, Valmiki and Ontari communities from the Backward Classes, and usher in development of the region. Show your anger against the YSRCP by voting for the JSP in the elections,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said while addressing a public meeting at Kothacheruvu after participating in the road repair work. Taking exception to the “caste politics being pursued by the YSRCP” by ignoring the BCs and minorities, the JSP exhorted them to “be brave and oppose the oppression.” “Dalits in Rayalaseema cannot raise their voice. The JSP has to stand by them. There is no place for fear in a democracy,” he said. “The law and order situation is so bad in the State that even the decades-old TDP is on a back foot and is not openly opposing the YSRCP,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said, and pitied the plight of TDP leaders J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and Madhusudhan Reddy as the “ruling party is not allowing them to live peacefully.” The YSRCP government was not allowing industries to flourish in the State, he alleged, and added that it was trying to send out big companies such as KIA Motors as well. “Entrepreneurs are fearing to invest in the State,” he alleged. Mr. Pawan Kalyan asked the youth if the government provided them jobs in the last two-and-a-half years. “The government has not been able to provide water to all the mandals in the district as it lacks the will to do so. But Sri Sathya Sai Baba’s organisation could quench the thirst of many people,” he said. Party leaders Nadendla Manohar and Varun were present on the dais.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vote-jsp-to-power-in-2024-to-ensure-rayalaseemas-development-pawan/article36801934.ece
03 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decision to stop support to aided colleges will hurt none’||The State government’s decision to stop support to aided colleges will in no way hurt any stakeholder’s interest, said Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman Konireddy Hemachandra Reddy at a press conference here on Saturday. Responding to the criticism that the State government is intending to save money by withdrawing support to the aided colleges, Mr. Hemachandra Reddy said the government would not gain financially, but instead its expenditure will only increase by Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 crore per annum as it has to spend on fee reimbursements to the students. All the aided lecturers, 280 of them Statewide, will be deputed to 17 State universities and payment of their salaries will continue and their services used in some key vacant places in the universities to improve the quality of pedagogy, he said and added that most of the aided colleges were also happy with the government decision. “The move will put an end to malpractices going on in some of the aided colleges, where the salary paid to the lecturers were partly being swindled by the management,” he said. He added that colleges can continue to have sections, now running under aid, and the government will reimburse the entire fee of the students (for those eligible). The government has decided to have 35% of the seats in private universities set up in Andhra Pradesh, where the admissions would be done through State CETs, and also the government has written to the University Grants Commission to allow such quota in the ‘Deemed Universities’ too running in the State, Mr. Hemachandra Reddy said. Recruitment There are 2,700 vacancies in the universities and 2,000 of them would be filled in February as per the job calendar issued by the State. In the government degree colleges too, there are 1,600 vacancies and there will not be any problem in accommodating all these lecturers from the aided institutions, the APSCHE chief added. As part of skilling the students and providing value addition to their courses, the State would set up Skill Universities in each Parliamentary constituency area and make the students employable. “They will be given scope to do additional minor and major courses to earn 20 credits in addition to the compulsory 160 credits,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-stop-support-to-aided-colleges-will-hurt-none/article36801375.ece
03 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Generating power when vehicles hit speed-breakers||Converting mechanical energy into electrical energy and storing it on the roadside at speed-breakers lights up a traffic signal or streetlight, and this has been the idea of final year students of the Mechanical Engineering Department of JNTUA College of Engineering, which won appreciation from one and all. JNTUA skill development co-ordinator G. Mamatha and Vice-Chancellor G. Rangajanardhana accompanied APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy to have a look at the exhibits at Makeathon 2.0, a competition for engineering students from the State. K. Abhiram, one of the three members of a team, explained that on national highways and other roads, ‘mechanical energy’ is generated every time vehicles climb over the humps of the speed-breakers, which “we have tried to convert with our innovation and connected it to a lamp to make it glow for the demonstration purpose.” Projects Explaining the dynamics of the project, C. Abhilash, another member, said at the speed-breaker every vehicle touches two points while it crosses it, and all this energy goes waste, which can be utilised by placing a ‘pin and rack’ set that helps a large flywheel rotate and a DC dynamo power generator connected to it produces electricity. Giving an example of a small car weighing 400 kg, N. Girivardhan explains that when one set of wheels pass over the mechanism created by the team, 136 watts of power is generated and when the other set crosses, a similar amount of power is generated. With further refinement of the system, the quantum of power generated with each wheel climbing over the speed-breaker, a larger quantum of power can be generated, he added. The accident-prone regions can be easily lit with a very small recurring cost by having such a system and even signalling can be powered through this, the team members explained. There were 50 exhibits, and some of the interesting ones were a self-healing concrete project of the civil engineering students and electric scooter with an automatic charging system designed by the SRIT students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/generating-power-when-vehicles-hit-speed-breakers/article36801953.ece
03 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unloading of iron ore at Somulapuram opposed||Residents of Somulapuram in D. Hirehal Mandal in the district have opposed the use of village lands for unloading and stocking of iron ore downloaded from the railway good rakes at the Somulapuram Railway Station. The residents said that large multi-axle vehicles and tippers were loading iron ore with the help of cranes from the stockyard and carrying them to several destinations in the Rayadurg Assembly Constituency to feed the small-scale/MSME sponge iron units, which was spoiling the environment of the village. All this could lead to a health hazards, they said. Telugu Desam Party politburo member and former minister Kalava Srinivasulu has alleged that Rayadurg MLA Kapu Ramachandra Reddy’s family was operating the business without taking any permission for the stockyard or transporting the iron ore from the village. This stockyard would severely affect the environment and health of the children due to the black dust rising from the ore yard, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unloading-of-iron-ore-at-somulapuram-opposed/article36801951.ece
03 October 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||24-year-old killed allegedly over inter-faith relationship||The decapitated body of a 24-year-old man was found on the railway tracks near Khanapur in Belagavi district, leading to suspicion that he was killed by members of a right-wing organisation over his inter-faith relationship. Villagers have identified the victim as Arbaz Aftab Mulla of Khanapur, who commuted to Belagavi on work. Police sources said the body was found on September 28 by local farmers. The victim’s mother, Nazeema Mohammad Gouse Sheikh, a government Urdu school teacher, has filed a complaint with the Khanapur police. She has named the girl with whom her son is said to have had a relationship. She alleged that three persons killed her son as they did not like him having a relationship with a woman of another faith. They had threatened him not to continue the relationship, she said in the complaint. She held the girl’s father, whose name she did not know, another person called “Maharaj” and his follower Birje as responsible for the alleged killing. The police suspect that the second accused person is Khanapur-based social activist associated with ‘Sri RamSena Hindustan’. Pramod Mutalik, Sri Rama Sena founder, denied the involvement of his organisation and said some of his former followers had left to start another organisation called Sri Ram Sena Hindustan. Mother’s complaint “Once I learnt about the relationship, I shifted to Azam Nagar in Belagavi with my son. Maharaj asked me to tell my son to stop seeing the girl. He and his followers gave a life threat to my son. He and his followers held a meeting with my son and asked him to step away,” the mother of the victim said in her complaint. She told journalists, “I knew that my son was in love with a neighbour’s daughter. I spoke to her mother to caution them. But the children were adamant. That was a few days ago. But I did not know it would come this.” After initial probe by the Railway police, the case was transferredto the district police. “We are looking into all angles of the offence and a team has been formed to trace and apprehend the culprits,” Lakshman Nimbaragi,Superintendent of Police, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24-year-old-killed-allegedly-over-inter-faith-relationship/article36801323.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Block first episode of ‘Crime Stories: India Detectives,’ HC tells Netflix||The High Court of Karnataka has directed Netflix Entertainment Services India LLP. to block streaming, broadcasting, telecasting, or otherwise making available the content of the first episode, ‘A Murdered Mother’, of the documentary series ‘Crime Stories: India Detectives’ on its platform. Justice B.M. Shyam Prasad passed the interim order on October 1 on a petition filed by Sridhar Rao S., a 28-year-old resident of the city, an alleged co-accused in the case of murder of 54-year-old Nirmala Chandrashekar. The case was registered by the K.R. Puram police in February last year. It has been pointed out in the petition that the first episode contained visuals of the investigation by the police against the petitioner and another accused, Amrutha Chandrashekar. It was alleged that Ms. Amrutha had killed her mother and attempted to kill her brother, and later fled to Andaman and Nicobar with the petitioner, who picked her up from in front of her house in the city during the early hours of February 2, 2020, to board a flight to Port Blair. “Netflix is streaming recordings of the petitioner, made by Minnow Films Ltd., on his custodial interrogations, interview, and the derogatory statement made by the police during the investigation in a manner which is against the law,” it was alleged in the petition. Contending that the petitioner was innocent as even Ms. Amrutha, in the statement to the police, had said that he was not involved in the crime, the petitioner said the episode had “a real and imminent threat of prejudice to the fairness of the trial and to the rights of the petitioner under Article 21 of the Constitution, besides affecting his privacy”.  “The petitioner was also video-shot and forced to give his custodial statement without any authorisation or permission, but later the police forcefully took a signature on a paper given by Minnow Films when the petitioner was in police custody,” Mr. Rao claimed in his petition. “Documentarians are duty-bound to seek the truth and report it fairly and broadcast the documentary only after ensuring that all the facts are broadcast by hiding the identity of the individual involved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/block-first-episode-of-crime-stories-india-detectives-hc-tells-netflix/article36801325.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toyota terminates 45 workers for ‘misconduct’||Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) on Saturday terminated 45 of its workers for “proven misconduct” following an inquiry. The employees’ union, however, said the company had “wiped out” its entire elected leadership in order to “paralyse or eliminate” the union. “With the inquiries completed, the management has decided to terminate 45 workmen, who had indulged in serious acts of misconduct, and the remaining members are taken back to work with minor disciplinary actions,” said the company in response to a query from The Hindu . Operations of the Japanese auto major’s Bidadi unit in Karnataka were affected by a series of lockouts, prolonged strikes, and work disruptions after its employees protested the suspension of a union member and later allegedly resorted to destructive behaviour on the factory premises in November last year. TKM said this strike was prolonged by the union for four months despite the State government banning it. During this period, 66 employees indulged in serious misconduct such as threatening, damaging company property, defamation, and assault. Consequently, they were kept on ‘suspension pending inquiry’. Later, inquiries were conducted in a “fair and transparent manner” by a third party and the suspended members were given ample opportunity to defend their cases, said the company. Online inquiry However, the employees’ union representatives said the inquiry was conducted online for the convenience of the management and many accused employees, witnesses, and defendants could not participate in the process because of network issues and other inconveniences. “Only an offline inquiry is effective in many counts such as clarity, participation, and reading of demeanour of the people involved. When TKM can call all employees to work, why did the company insist on conducting this inquiry online?” asked an office-bearer of the union. “The work termination of our members will directly affect them, their families, and dependents. It will also adversely impact the overall morale of all workers at TKM Bidadi,” said the representative, alleging that the company had also “committed a series of violations punishable under the Industrial Disputes Act”. However, TKM said it was committed to continuing to strengthen and “make efforts to build mutual trust and respect with its employees and spread happiness to their families and society at large.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toyota-terminates-45-workers-for-misconduct/article36801326.ece
03 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang of inter-State temple ‘thieves’ held||The Chittoor police on Saturday nabbed a four-member inter-State gang allegedly involved in temple offences in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, at Tumgundram village of G.D. Nellore mandal, on the outskirts of Chittoor, and seized two panchaloha kalasams (urns atop temple towers) and a car, worth about Rs. 6 lakh. Addressing a press meet here, Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said the Chittoor taluk police conducting checking of vehicles on the outskirts, spotted a car bearing Tamil Nadu registration number coming towards Chittoor. Seeing the vehicle-checks, the driver allegedly tried to take a U-turn to avoid the police. But, the police foiled the bid, and took four passengers into custody, and seized two kalasams, each belonging to the local temples near Tiruttani in Tamil Nadu, and Aravachenupalle near Chittoor, from the boot of the car The accused were identified as Battala Rajkumar (28) of Tiruttani, M. Prakash (37) of Sholingar and V. Pandian of Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu, and U. Chakravathy of Puttur in Chittoor district. The gang had reportedly struck a deal with a Puudcherry-based youth allegedly involved in rice-pulling offences for Rs. 25 lakh to supply temple kalasams. These kalasams are said to be in big demand among a cross-section of traders that possessing the material inside their house would bring them prosperity. A case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-of-inter-state-temple-thieves-held/article36801931.ece
03 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Karnataka youth drown in Kaigal Falls||Two youth from Karnataka drowned in the swirling waters of the Kaigal waterfalls, near Baireddipalle, 80 km from here, on Saturday evening. Of late, the waterfalls, nestled in the forests along Chittoor-Karnataka border, is attracting picnic lovers in large numbers. According to the area police, a group of youth reached the picnic spot, which is currently in full force following recent rains in the afternoon. Two of them, Manohar (25) of Mulbagal and Sampath Kumar (27) of Bengaluru, lost grip on a slippery rock and fell into the gushing waters. After getting washed away for a few metres, they drowned in a pool. The Baireddipalle police rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies, and sent them to area hospital for autopsy. A case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-karnataka-youth-drown-in-kaigal-falls/article36801653.ece
03 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mind your language: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday alleged that Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan was deliberately instigating the youth and members of select communities for gaining political mileage. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna was reacting to Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s observations at a public meeting at Hukumpeta in East Godavari district. Addressing the media here, the Minister said, “It is unfortunate that Mr. Pawan Kalyan has chosen Gandhi jayanthi to challenge the YSRCP for a political battle. The JSP chief has even asked the YSRCP to choose the mode of the battle.” “Mr. Pawan has given a call to the Kapu, Ontari, and Balija communities to unite and fight against the YSRCP. Such a political ideology is against the spirit of democracy,” he said. “The JSP president will be seen as an anti-social element if he does not mend his social behaviour and language through which he is trying to drive a wedge between castes and communities,” the Minister warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mind-your-language-minister/article36801939.ece
03 October 2021||Kalaburagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka’s new district Vijayanagara inaugurated||Karnataka’s Vijayanagara district, which was recently formed by carving out six taluks from Ballari, was formally inaugurated at a grand programme at Hosapete, headquarters of the new district, on Saturday by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Amidst cheers, Mr. Bommai unveiled a model of Vijayanagara ‘Vijayasthamba’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakas-new-district-vijayanagara-inaugurated/article36801609.ece
03 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CB completes questioning fraud accused||Crime Branch (CB) probing the cheating case against Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled dealer of antiquities and confidence trickster, on Saturday returned his custody to the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, after six days of interrogation. The investigation team was granted his custody on the case pertaining to the cheating of six persons for a combined amount of Rs. 10 crore between 2017 and 2020. The victims were cheated in the guise of carrying forward a legal fight to get Mavunkal’s funds to the tune of Rs. 2.62 lakh crore, allegedly from the sale of antiquities, released from his bank account frozen under the Foreign Exchange Management Act. “We may no longer need his custody in this case. However, his custody will be sought in the other three cases,” said highly placed sources. CB officials from Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday seized around four sculptures from Mavunkal’s house at Kaloor in another case related to the cheating of a Thiruvananthapuram-based sculptor. The accused allegedly owe the sculptor Rs. 80 lakh for his works of which only Rs. 7 lakh had been paid. The scamster had passed off those sculptures to buyers as rare antiquities. Mavunkal has also been accused in another case for alleged impersonation as the chairman of ‘TV Samskara’ channel and for allegedly cheating a Pala-based businessman of Rs. 1.7 crore. Minimum balance Interestingly, though accused of cheating his victims of crores, Mavunkal’s bank account has a mere Rs. 200. Except for around Rs. 50 lakh, which he had obtained through his former employee’s account without his knowledge, he is reported to have collected all amounts as cash in person making it difficult to prove the cheating charges. It has also emerged that Mavunkal had procured the premium cars found at his home by cheating a Bengaluru-based garage owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cb-completes-questioning-fraud-accused/article36801333.ece
03 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Case exposes denigration of value of heritage’||Kerala History Congress has said that the case of Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled dealer of antiquities and confidence trickster, being discussed widely in the State showed the denigration of the value of heritage to some heroic and nostalgic stories. An excessive interest in a glamorous past with precious objectification of crown, gun and sword would lead people to a falsified consciousness of a nostalgic past, it said. “Fantasy matters in such heritage accumulation and not history,” said Dr. Sebastian Joseph, General Secretary of KHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-exposes-denigration-of-value-of-heritage/article36801331.ece
03 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pala Bishop breaks silence, attacks ‘pseudo secularists’||Weeks after his controversial remarks accusing a section of the Muslim community of targeting Christians, Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, the Bishop of the Pala diocese of Syro-Malabar Catholic Church on Saturday broke his silence with a scathing attack on the “pseudo secularists”. In an article published in Deepika , the official mouth-piece of the church, the Bishop came down heavily on the perceived attempts to suppress the voices that point out the evils within a community. “Those who insist that one should not talk about the evils that befall his own community, are silently encouraging such things to flourish. Instead of ignoring the warnings issued against such social evils, attempts should be made to discuss and study these issues to prevent their further occurrence,” the Bishop said. While noting that the concept secularism is the core of India, the Bishop also sought to raise the pitch against pseudo secularism, which he said, “will destroy the country”. “Secularism is at the core of our constitution. The religious community and the secular community must learn to live together. The essence of Indian secularism is the respect towards all religions,” he said. But at the same time, he also sought to raise concerns over the ways secularism would pave the way for religious extremism. “From the growth of conservative racist movements in the West, we should learn how secularism gives birth to extremism. The situation of India too will not be different if we fail to accept Indian secularism in its true sense,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pala-bishop-breaks-silence-attacks-pseudo-secularists/article36801330.ece
03 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused taken to crime scene in murder case||The Kerala Police team probing the murder of Nithina Mol, a 22-year-old college student, by one of her classmates, here on Saturday brought the accused to the crime scene and collected evidence. The accused, Abishek Baiju, was brought to the St. Thomas College in Pala, where the murder took place, around 2.30 p.m. Though the accused told the police that he had no plans to murder the woman, investigators unearthed evidence pointing to the contrary. Nithina Mol was murdered when she had reached the college to attend the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accused-taken-to-crime-scene-in-murder-case/article36801339.ece
03 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||90 new COVID cases in Prakasam||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 165(75 in SPSR Nellore district and 90 in Prakasam) new COVID cases and 361 recoveries in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. The toll climbed to 2,137 in the region as two more persons succumbed to the viral disease in Prakasam district during the period when SPSR Nellore district registered zero deaths. As a result, the toll remained unchanged at 1,040 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government. As many as 223 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 138 in Prakasam district recovered during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/90-new-covid-cases-in-prakasam/article36801928.ece
03 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole breed cattle back in favour||The average farmer had dumped the world famous Ongole breed of cattle and switched over to tractors and other farm equipment for all agricultural operations long time back. Now the cattle is back in favour thanks to the huge demand for the natively-bred cow milk and ghee and growing realisation among farmers to switch over to organic farming wherein cow dung is extensively used to restore soil health and produce healthy food. There is also a growing demand for cow urine for medicinal purpose. Ongole ‘A2 cow milk’ (A2 allele of Beta Casein) now fetches a premium price of up to Rs. 150 per litre as health-conscious people consume it to build immunity against viral and other diseases, says a group of progressive farmers during a visit to the State-run Chadalawada cattle farm, 15 km from here, to procure well-bred cattle. The incidence of COVID-19 has led to further increase in demand for A2 cow milk, they add. “The indigenous breed of animals possess A2 allele of Beta Casein as compared to exotic cattle which possess higher frequency of A1 type allele2,” explains Dr. B. Ravi, Deputy Director of the farm funded by the Centre under the Rashtriya Gokul Mission to nurture the Ongole cattle by taking up heifer rearing programme. The breed is sought after the world over as they are endowed with qualities of heat tolerance, resistance to diseases and ability to flourish under extreme climatic stress experienced of late due to global warming. The farm now has 300 well-bred bulls and cows and is fully geared to meet the demand for providing commercially viable milch cattle to dairy farmers by selectively crossing with superior bulls selected after sibling and progeny testing, he tells The Hindu . Cattle for field work Skyrocketing price of diesel has led to a rethink among farmers and a return to the old ways of cultivation where the majestic humped Ongole bulls occupied an important position, explains a progressive farmer Ramachandra Rao, who has taken to zero-based natural at Chinarikatala near Podili.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-breed-cattle-back-in-favour/article36801941.ece
03 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treat scribes as frontline warriors: APUWJ||Journalists observed October 2 as National Protest Day on a call given by Indian Journalists Union (IJU) to press their demand for treating them as COVID frontline warriors and provide them an insurance coverage of Rs. 50 lakh. Wearing black badges, scribes led by Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists State president I.V. Subba Rao marched from the Press club to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the Gandhi road and symbolically submitted a memorandum to the Father of the Nation, upset with lack of any positive response to their demands from the Union and State governments. The ‘intolerant’ governments were charging journalists and intellectuals with sedition in some States, he said. Stating that as many as 128 journalists had succumbed to COVID-19 in the State, he said the bereaved families of the scribes had not got the Rs. 5 lakh exgratia announced by the State government yet. It was unfortunate that the accidental insurance coverage for journalists was not in force in the State now. The promised house sites for journalists had not also materialised, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treat-scribes-as-frontline-warriors-apuwj/article36801927.ece
03 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Realise importance of freedom, judge tells people||Prakasam First Additional District Judge and in-charge Principal District Judge R. Sivakumar underscored the need for people to realise the importance of freedom. He, along with other district judges, organised a rally here on Saturday to mark the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of independence of progressive India and the history of its people, culture and achievements. Lok Adalats, the alternative dispute resolution mechanism, had contributed significantly to address the problem of pendency of cases in courts, he observed. Third Additional District Judge S.Md.Fazulullah, Family Court Judge Srihari, District Legal Services Authority Secretary P. Srinivasa Rao took part in the rally. Legal literacy programmes were organised by the DLSA at Kothapatnam, Aluru, Sarvedreddypalem and Manduvaripalem on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/realise-importance-of-freedom-judge-tells-people/article36801929.ece
03 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secretariats are examples of Gram Swaraj: Collector||Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar on Saturday said that village and ward secretariats were the live examples of decentralisation of administration which was sought by Mahatma Gandhi. On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, he garlanded the Bapuji’s statue at the Collector’s office and recalled the sacrifices made by the father of the nation. The Collector urged the youngsters to study the biography of Mahatma Gandhi to know about his role in the country’s freedom struggle. Meanwhile, with the suggestion from government authorities, many philanthropists are establishing Gandhi statues in various places. PVS Rammohana Rao Foundation has established around 880 statues in various places across the district in association with the district administration. After garlanding the statue in Srikakulam, the foundation president P.V.S. Rammohana Rao said that the statues will reach the 1,000-mark very soon. SSR Charitable Trust president and philanthropist Sura Srinivasa Rao, who installed the Gandhi statue in Srikakulam sub-Jail premises on Saturday, said that Bapuji’s messages would continue to inspire future generations. Jail Superintendent M. Rajakumar Nagarjuna Agrichem Private Limited senior vice-president C.V. Rajulu, YSRCP leader Chowdary Satish were present in the Gandhi birth anniversary celebrations on the jail premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secretariats-are-examples-of-gram-swaraj-collector/article36801968.ece
03 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to open theatres, indoor auditoriums||Cinema theatres and indoor auditoriums in Kerala are opening up from October 25, with certain restrictions, now that the COVID-19 situation in Kerala is thought to be well within control. The COVID-19 review meeting chaired by the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, here on Saturday decided to open movie theatres, restricting the seating capacity to just 50% and allowing admission only for those who have been fully vaccinated. All theatre employees would also have to be fully vaccinated. The government also decided to fully open up colleges and training institutions in the State and to hold all regular classes from October 18, by ensuring that all employees, teachers and students attending colleges are fully vaccinated. COVID-negative certificate would no longer be necessary for admission to various institutions in the State, if fully vaccinated individuals can produce their vaccination certificate. The meeting also decided to allow the opening of pre-metric hostels and model residential schools from November 1, just as other schools, after adopting the bio bubble model. As in the case of regular schools, all employees would have to have received two doses of vaccine. Restrictions on the number of guests that can be allowed to gather at weddings and funerals are also being eased and henceforth, up to 50 guests each can be allowed to attend weddings and funerals in the State. Grama sabhas can also be convened from November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-open-theatres-indoor-auditoriums/article36801337.ece
03 October 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||GI tag for Edayur Chilli, Kuttiattoor Mango||Edayur Chilli and Kuttiattoor Mango are the latest agricultural produce from Kerala to receive the Geographical Indication status. Edayur chilli is a local cultivar of Edayur, Athavanad, Marakkara, Irimbiliyam, Kalpakanchery andValancherypanchayats in Valanchery block and Moorkanad and Kuruva panchayats in Angadippuram block of Malappuram district. It has been cultivated in the area for at least 150 years. The Edayur chilli is a unique cultivar of this area with very low pungency. The distinctiveness can be attributed to its genetic makeup, the specific environmental and soil conditions of the area and the traditional methods of cultivation. The Kuttiattoor mango is a popular and tasty traditional mango cultivar of Kuttiattoor and the nearby gram panchayats of Kannur district. It will not be an exaggeration to call Kuttiattoor as the ‘mango village’ of Kannur. Even though this cultivar is most popularly known as Kuttiattoor mango,it is also known as ‘ Nambiar manga’, ‘Kannapuram manga’, ‘Kunjimangalam manga’ and ‘Vadakkumbhagam manga’ in small pockets of Kannur district. This mango is famous for its appealing orange-yellow colour in addition to its excellent taste and flavour. The ripened fruits do not show speckles or patches on the skin, making it more appealing in the market. GI tag has been received for Edayur Chilli and Kuttiattoor Mango through concerted efforts of IPR Cell of Kerala Agricultural University, State Department of Agriculture Development and Farmers’ Welfare and farmers of Edayur Chilli and Kuttiattoor Mango. Edayoor Chilli Growers Association, Edayur, Malappuram, and Kuttiattoor Mango Producer Society, Kuttiattoor,  are  the registered proprietors of Edayur Chilli and Kuttiattoor mango respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gi-tag-for-edayur-chilli-kuttiattoor-mango/article36801336.ece
03 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD invites Bommai for channel inaugural||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Saturday formally invited Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for the inaugural ceremony of the Kannada version of SV Bhakti Channel (SVBC) on October 11. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, who met him at his camp office in Bengaluru, also appraised him about the participation of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and requested him to make it convenient in attending the programme. Mr. Bommai who was presented with the sacred prasadams of the presiding deity reacted positively when the duo sought his government’s support in the development of the Kannada channel. TTD board member Vishwanath Reddy and temple OSD Dollar Seshadri were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-invites-bommai-for-channel-inaugural/article36801376.ece
03 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Earning huge revenue on liquor a Gandhian ideal?’||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday slammed the YSRCP government for “undermining the self-rule concept of Gram Swaraj” that Mahatma Gandhi strived to achieve, and questioned whether earning huge revenues on liquor sales was Gandhian philosophy. “The sale of drugs is rampant in the State as the government has turned a blind eye to the menace,” Mr. Naidu said in a statement. ‘Cheap liquor brands’ “The lives of the poor are being ruined as they are getting addicted to alcohol. Instead of exploring ways to wean them away from the evil, the government is trying to maximise the revenue thereof, and raising loans by showing it as income. Moreover, cheap liquor brands are being sold to the poor, who don’t spare a thought to the harmful consequences,” Mr. Naidu observed. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to women in the run-up to the elections that he would impose total prohibition, but he reneged on his commitment after coming to power, Mr. Naidu alleged. Claiming that the TDP government had shut down belt shops, Mr. Naidu said they mushroomed again under the YSRCP regime. “Revenue from liquor sales has gone up by 75%. An astounding 1.25 crore litres of country-made liquor has been seized in just one year. The prices of liquor have been jacked up to generate additional revenue,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The economy was in such a crisis that the police and teachers had to work at liquor shops for a living during the pandemic time, Mr. Naidu said. “The government lacks a strategy to steer itself clear off the financial troubles,” Mr. Naidu said, alleging that many cases of drugs and ganja had their roots in the State. Meanwhile, activists of Telugu Mahila, the TDP’s women wing, destroyed liquor bottles outside the party office near Mangalagiri in protest against the government’s “failure” in imposing total prohibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/earning-huge-revenue-on-liquor-a-gandhian-ideal/article36801938.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Shastri||Rich tributes were paid to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, on the occasion of his 152nd birth anniversary, at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan garlanded a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi. He also paid tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his 117th birth anniversary. The Governor said the Gandhi Jayanthi is being observed as ‘International Day of Non-Violence’. Gandhiji had chosen truth and non-violence as his weapons to fight against the British rulers. Responding to his call, lakhs of people came on to the streets and participated in Dandi March and Quit India Movement, which resulted in the downfall of the Britishers and they were eventually forced to leave the country, Mr. Harichandan said. Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-shastri/article36801378.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine more persons succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported nine more deaths due to COVID-19 and 865 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,51,998 and 14,195. The number of active cases came down to 10,574 as 1,424 patients recovered in the past day. The active cases tally was lower than 11,000 for the first time in many months. Over 75% of the active cases were in five districts – East Godavari (2,166), Chittoor (1,711), Prakasam (1,503), Nellore (1,489) and Krishna (1,210). The total recoveries stand at 20,27,229 with a recovery rate of 98.79%. The daily positivity rate of the 50,304 samples tested in the past day was 1.72%, which was less than 2% for the sixth consecutive day. Chittoor reported three deaths in the past day, while Prakasam, Krishna and Guntur reported two each. East Godavari reported 172 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (168), Guntur (117), Prakasam (90), West Godavari (80), Krishna (75), Nellore (75), Visakhapatnam (35), Kadapa (23), Vizianagaram (15), Anantapur (7), Srikakulam (4) and Kurnool (4). The overall district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,91,644), Chittoor (2,44,247), West Godavari (1,77,921), Guntur (1,76,170), Anantapur (1,57,618), Visakhapatnam (1,56,721), Nellore (1,45,140), Prakasam (1,37,462), Kurnool (1,24,022), Srikakulam (1,22,723), Krishna (1,17,604), Kadapa (1,15,053) and Vizianagaram (82,778).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-more-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article36801936.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu flays arrests ahead of Pawan’s visit||BJP State president Somu Veerraju condemned the arrest of leaders of his party and the JSP ahead of Pawan Kalyan’s ‘Shramadaan’ at Rajamahendravaram. “It is nothing but a mockery of democracy by the YSRCP government,” he said in a press release. He said the government had shirked its responsibility to solve the people’s problems and it was stifling the voice of those questioning its failures. “The government’s inability to keep roads in proper condition is glaring and it is least bothered to even get minimum repairs done,” he said. Mr. Veerraju said the BJP was fully supportive of Mr. Kalyan's campaign and requested the government not to place obstacles in the path, as his fight was not intended to derive political mileage. The government should not use the police force to meet its ends, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-flays-arrests-ahead-of-pawans-visit/article36801946.ece
03 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Promote use of khadi’||BJP former State president K. Lakshminarayana and other party leaders paid glowing tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Sashtri at the party’s weavers’ cell here on Saturday. Mr. Lakshminarayana called for promotion of khadi garments and made-in-India goods, which were dear to the Mahatma’s heart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promote-use-of-khadi/article36801373.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness raised on muscular dystrophy||A muscular dystrophy awareness programme was held here on Saturday by the Amaravati Rare Diseases Organisation. Andhra Pradesh Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation chairperson Muntaz Patan said that the issues being faced by people suffering from muscular dystrophy would be noted and taken to the notice of the government. Society for Empowerment Skills Global representative G. Bhavana said special training would be provided to the persons identified with muscular dystrophy and job opportunities would be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-raised-on-muscular-dystrophy/article36802002.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up works on ESI hospitals: GVL||BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V. L. Narasimha Rao had met Union Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav in New Delhi on Friday, and requested him to ensure speedy construction of seven ESI hospitals sanctioned to Andhra Pradesh. The new hospitals are coming up at Atchutapuram (Visakhapatnam district), Guntur, Kakinada, Penukonda (Anantapur), Sri City (Chittoor) Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram with an aggregate bed strength of 930. At present, there are four ESI hospitals functioning at Malkapuram (Visakhapatnam), Rajamahendravaram, Tirupati and Vijayawada with a total 240 beds. Mr. Narasimha Rao told the Union Minister that the ESI hospital sanctioned for Guntur district should be established at Narsaraopet, or in one of the other towns in the Palnadu region, to meet the requirements of the backward area. In a press release, the MP said that Union Minister of State for Labour Rameswar Teli had recently said in the Rajya Sabha that the ESI hospital in Vizianagaram was estimated to cost Rs. 73.60 crore. The State government had initially allotted five acres of land, but later proposed to allot an alternative land, which was awaited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-works-on-esi-hospitals-gvl/article36801944.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 IAS officers transferred||Five IAS officers were transferred and given new posting in a reshuffle on Saturday. According to a G.O., Panchayat Raj & Rural Development Commissioner M. Girija Shankar has been posted as Commissioner of Civil Supplies and ex-officio Secretary to the Government for Consumer Affairs and Food and Civil Supplies. Commissioner of Civil Supplies K. Sasidhar has been posted as Commissioner of PR&RD. Commissioner of R&R M. Hari Jawaharlal has been posted as Endowments Commissioner. Secretary (Water Resources) J. Syamala Rao has been placed in full additional charge of the post of Commissioner of Relief and Rehabilitation. G.S. Naveen Kumar has been posted as Special Secretary (Health).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-ias-officers-transferred/article36801945.ece
03 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cycle rally, walk in city today||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation will organise “Cycle for Freedom” and “Walk for Freedom” as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav in the city on Sunday morning. Special Chief Secretary to Govt. (Revenue Dept) Rajat Bhargava, Krishna Collector J. Nivas, Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu will take part in the programme . Mr. Nivas said that all the arrangements were made in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols. He called upon the public to take part in the rallies and make it a success. The cycle rally will begin at 6.30 a.m. at Benz Circle and end at IGMC Stadium via Ramavarappadu Ring, BRTS Road and Police Control Room junction. The walk will begin at 6.45 a.m. at Police Control Room junction and end at IGMC Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cycle-rally-walk-in-city-today/article36802003.ece
03 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power utilities to use savings to benefit consumers||The power utilities have requested the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission to use the Rs. 126.15 crore saved by the DISCOMs in the first quarter of 2021-22 by purchasing power from exchanges and reducing the transmission and distribution (T&D) losses, for the benefit of consumers, said Energy Secretary N. Srikant. At the Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations here on Saturday, Mr. Srikant said it had been the government’s endeavour to save public money by all possible means and implement the best practices that help in improving the overall performance of the power utilities. He claimed that the reforms initiated in the last two years were yielding the desired results. Mr. Srikant said the Southern DISCOM saved Rs. 89.23 crore in the purchase of 6,013 MU of energy at Rs. 0.15 per unit. The Central DISCOM saved Rs. 33.25 crore and the Eastern DISCOM Rs. 3.67 crore. Earlier, tributes were paid to Mahatma Gandhi by Mr. Srikant, AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K. Venkateswara Rao and directors K. Praveen Kumar and K. Muthupandian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-utilities-to-use-savings-to-benefit-consumers/article36801612.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sachivalayam system fulfilling Gandhi’s dreams, says Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and Mayor G. Hari Vankata Kumari along with GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana paid floral tributes to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi near the GVMC office here on Saturday on the occasion of Gandhi’s birth anniversary. Mr Srinivasa Rao said that Sachivalayam system is fulfilling Mahatma Gandhi’s dreams, by serving the people. Apart from taking forward government services, the secretariats have also played a crucial role during COVID-19. He also said that as part of Clean Andhra Pradesh initiative, Visakhapatnam would receive about 672 vehicles. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna paid floral tributes to a portrait of Gandhi at the Collector’s office here on Saturday. He also paid tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Sastry on his birth anniversary. Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy and P. Arun Babu, and others participated. Khadi exhibition Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) conducted a khadi exhibition ‘Khadi Santha’ at the party office. A number of khadi weavers from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts have set up close to 25 stalls in the expo. Party MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that the event was organised on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi. Members of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), including party State president K. Atchannaidu, former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao, and a few others paid rich tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Sastry at the party office. Similarly, Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, MP G. Madhavi and MLA T. Nagi Reddy took part in Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations at the party office at Maddilapalem along with other leaders. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao recalled the services of Mahatma Gandhi in the freedom struggle. Gandhi Jayanthi was also observed at Andhra University and GITAM deemed to be university. Visakha Valley School also celebrated Gandhi Jayanthi. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), celebrated Gandhi Jayanti in Ukkunagaram on Saturday with Chairman and Managing Director Atul Bhatt, paying rich tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. Officials from the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) celebrated the event at their administrative building. Zonal Development Commissioner of VSEZ A. Rama Mohan Reddy and others were present. Gandhi Jayanthi was also observed by Hindustan Shipyard Limited, East Coast Railway and NSTL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sachivalayam-system-fulfilling-gandhis-dreams-says-minister/article36802008.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not put Vizag on sale, Atchannaidu tells Jagan||The State government is unable to generate revenue to run the show and that is why it is mortgaging government properties and buildings located in prime areas in Visakhapatnam, TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has alleged. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Atchannaidu appealed to the government, and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in particular, to “stop selling Visakhapatnam.” “Buildings such as Circuit House and Collector’s office, and several government lands have been mortgaged,” he alleged. Since its inception, the TDP had always viewed Visakhapatnam as a preferred destination in the State, and had worked for its betterment and development, Mr. Atchannaidu said. Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had accorded top priority to Visakhapatnam. A number of international summits had been conducted in the Port City in order to project it as the financial and IT hub of the State, he said. “But the YSRCP government is bent on selling the city,” the TDP leader alleged. Referring to Mr. Naidu’s efforts to ensure that the city limped back to normal post Cyclone Hudhud, Mr. Atchannaidu said, “The severe cyclonic storm had devastated the city in October 2014. Mr. Naidu, who was the Chief Minister then, had camped in the city for 10 days and ensured that it recovered quickly. He had toiled hard to regain its past glory. The city we see today is because of his efforts.” Mr. Naidu had a vision to transform the city into a tourism, cultural, financial and IT hub, the TDP State president said. It was Mr. Naidu who had initiated the underground cabling works so that the city would never go without power even during natural calamities, Mr. Atchannaidu said. “The YSRCP government has appointed agents in each ward to identify lands that can be sold or mortgaged,” he alleged. Senior party leaders M. Sri Bharat and Palla Srinivasa Rao were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-put-vizag-on-sale-atchannaidu-tells-jagan/article36801947.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag zoo inks pact with zoo in Italy||Officials from the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ‘Parco Natura Viva – Garda Zoological Park, Italy’ as a part of the initiative of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), New Delhi. The MoU was signed, as a part of vision plan to develop world class standards in zoos in the country. This MoU was signed through video conference mode. Around 110 students attended the inaugural session of World Wildlife Week celebrations at the Zoo Bioscope here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-zoo-inks-pact-with-zoo-in-italy/article36802010.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 35 cases||The district recorded 35 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,229. During the same time period, 46 persons recovered from the coronavirus. This takes the total number of recoveries to 1,55,273. The toll stands at 1,088 as no COVID death was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-35-cases/article36802011.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial run of waste-to-energy plant launched in city||The trial run of the the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) waste- to-energy (WTE) processing plant at Kapuluppada was started here on Saturday. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials have sent about 500 tonnes of waste for processing. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana flagged off the closed compact vehicle in which the solid waste was sent to the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trial-run-of-waste-to-energy-plant-launched-in-city/article36802009.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four fake policemen arrested||The district police arrested four persons on charge of impersonating as police personnel and extorting Rs. 10,000 by assaulting the commuters at Paderu on Saturday. The arrested were identified as L. Bhanu Murthy, P. Surya Kiran, S. Bhargav and D. Bhaskara Rao. According to the police, Bhanu Murthy posed as the Sub-Inspector, while rest of the accused impersonated as constables. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-fake-policemen-arrested/article36802012.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||M.V.V.S. Murthi remembered||Officials from GITAM Deemed to be University paid floral tributes to the statue of GITAM founder-president M.V.V.S. Murthi on the occasion of his third death anniversary here on Saturday. Speaking during the programme, GITAM president M. Sribharath urged the teaching and non-teaching staff to work sincerely to fulfil the vision of the Murthi in making the varsity a global leader. Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mvvs-murthi-remembered/article36802006.ece
03 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boutique jewellery expo begins||Vaibhav Jewellers is organising a two-day expo of exquisite boutique jewellery at Lords Hall, WelcomHotel Devee Grand Bay, from Saturday. The exhibition showcases an array of ancient workmanship, contemporary designs of Royal Victorian, vintage, antique and designer editions. The exhibition is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. said Mallika Manoj Grandhi, CMD, Vaibhav Jewellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boutique-jewellery-expo-begins/article36802013.ece
03 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees may not be allowed for ‘Sirimanotsavam’||The government is unlikely to allow devotees to participate in the ‘Sirimanotsavam’ of the Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple here on October 19 this year too in an attempt to check the spread of COVID-19. The celebrations will be a low-key affair, according to the officials. Normally, around two lakh people participate in the ‘utsavam’, wherein the ‘Sirimanu’ is taken to and fro three times between the temple and the fort. Devotees not only from the North Andhra region but also Odisha take part in the festival. Meanwhile, MP Bellana Chandra Sekhar, Collector A. Suryakumari and other officials on Saturday offered special prayers to the ‘celestial tree’ that was identified for making the ‘Sirimanu’ at Chandakapeta of Denkada mandal in the district. Addressing the media, they appealed to people to have darshan of the Goddess during the month-long festivities instead of on that day. “It will be difficult to control the crowds and ensure enforcement of the COVID-19 protocols. I request devotees to have darshan of the Goddess during the auspicious days that last up to first week of November,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-may-not-be-allowed-for-sirimanotsavam/article36801943.ece
03 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||AAP vows to fight for Special Category Status||Aam Admi Party (AAP) Vizianagaram district Convener K. Dayanand on Saturday alleged that both the State and the Union governments have been doing injustice to Andhra Pradesh by ignoring the issue of Special Category Status (SCS)s which would be the lifeline for the State. On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti, he garlanded the portrait of Bapuji in the party office. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the party would strive hard to achieve SCS by following Bapuji’s non-violence and peaceful protest method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aap-vows-to-fight-for-special-category-status/article36801964.ece
03 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spare time for service activities, youngsters told||Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar on Saturday asked youngsters to spare time for service activities as it would enable them to know about the real issues of the society. On behalf of the Vizianagaram Youth Foundation, he distributed food packets to needy people at the Food Bank established at Mayuri Junction here. He hailed the initiatives of the foundation president Shaik Iltamash and general secretary N. Eswara Rao for distributing food packets for the last 64 days. Mr. Chandrasekhar said that the service activity would motivate others and make them responsible citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spare-time-for-service-activities-youngsters-told/article36801966.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remembering the Mahatma||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remembering-the-mahatma/article36801320.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Embarrassing start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/embarrassing-start/article36801949.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A new playmate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-new-playmate/article36802005.ece
03 October 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||Drug racket relying on app-based delivery busted||In an operation that began on Thursday and ended on Friday night, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Bengaluru, unearthed a major drug syndicate that was allegedly using partners with a food delivery app to send high-grade marijuana in small packets to the doorsteps of clients. Seven people associated with the syndicate have been arrested so far, including the kingpin and a delivery partnerwith Swiggy in Bengaluru and one person in Hyderabad. Three others were apprehended near Shivamogga after a high-speed chase. Several others have also been detained, said NCB sources. According to NCB officials, thesyndicate members were using Swiggy food delivery partners to courier drugs in small quantities — as little as 10-50 gm per packet — to their clients. In total, around 140 kg of high-grade marijuana was seized, along with Rs. 5.2 lakh, packing material used to package the drugs for retail delivery, and two vehicles. The operation began on Thursday after the NCB team received specific intelligence on the syndicate. NCB Bengaluru zonal director Amit Ghawate said the team intercepted two persons on Thursday while they were in the process of taking delivery of eight boxes of the contraband from a courier vehicle and loading them into a car in Bengaluru. “The boxes contained 137 kg of ganja wrapped in paper packets with adhesive tapes,” he said. This seizure led the team to the residential premises of the accused, where they recovered Rs. 4.81 lakh in cash and packing materials used for retail packing of drugs. “One Swiggy delivery partner was also apprehended. Furthermore, a search of the residential premises of another accused in Bengaluru resulted in the recovery of about 3 kg of ganja, packed in small packets with specific markings on it, and Rs. 39,000 in cash,” said the NCB in a release. The trail led to the arrest of four more people on October 1, the supplier of the drugs in Hyderabad, and three others in Shivamogga, one of whom the NCB described as the “financial hand of the network”. The trio were apprehended near Shivamogga, after a high-speed chase lateon Friday night. How they did it Explaining the modus operandi of the network, Mr. Ghawate said the traffickers, instead of physically travelling to buy the drugs, booked consignments through couriers. They gave them the addresses of non-functional shops or other business establishments for delivery. “This drug cartel took advantage of the lockdown as delivery personnel were allowed to operate. The syndicate thrived, especially during the lockdown period with doorstep delivery,” said NCB officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ncb-unearths-drug-racket-that-provided-doorstep-delivery/article36801640.ece
03 October 2021||Chittoor,TELANGANA||Gang of inter-State temple thieves held||The Chittoor police on Saturday nabbed a four-member inter-State gang allegedly involved in temple offences in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, at Tumgundram village of G.D. Nellore mandal, on the outskirts of Chittoor, and seized two panchaloha kalasams (urns atop temple towers) and a car, worth about Rs. 6 lakh. Addressing a press meet here, Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said the Chittoor taluk police conducting checking of vehicles on the outskirts, spotted a car bearing Tamil Nadu registration number coming towards Chittoor. Seeing the vehicle-checks, the driver allegedly tried to take a U-turn to avoid the police. But, the police foiled the bid, and took four passengers into custody, and seized two kalasams, each belonging to the local temples near Tiruttani in Tamil Nadu, and Aravachenupalle near Chittoor, from the boot of the car||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gang-of-inter-state-temple-thieves-held/article36801830.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Falaknuma government degree college in shambles||The Falaknuma Government Degree College shares its name with the famous palace and is perhaps a kilometre away from the residence built by Viqar ul Umra. In a densely populated locality, the college has 1,300 students on its rolls. And these students have six classrooms, two full-time faculty members, and the toilets are temporary stalls installed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The college has B. Com (Computer Applications) with 360 sanctioned intake but no computer laboratory. Rather, the college doesn’t have computers except those used by officials to process admissions. Ironically, two batches of students have passed out of the college which was established in 2017. “The building was marked for demolition. But has been restored and the plastering hides the damage,” says one of the faculty members at the college pointing to the staff room ceiling where a large chunk had flaked off showing rusted iron rods. During the recent rains, the building was surrounded by a pool of water. “The said college building was constructed long back, which is in a dilapidated condition, which is not feasible for repairing, and for safety purpose this building has to be dismantled,” wrote the executive director of Telangana State Education Women and Infrastructure Development in October 2020. While the University Grants Commission norms say there should be one classroom for 40 students, the Falaknuma Degree College is perhaps an exception with 216 students per classroom. “We have raised the issue of problems facing this college with both political and administrative authorities but nothing has changed,” says R. Nagender Reddy, principal of the institution. “We don’t drink water once we enter the college. The only toilet we have is that we share with the students of junior college. Most students don’t spend time to attend classes due to this,” says one of the teachers about the absence of toilet facility in the college. The college is a top draw for students living in the surrounding areas but the trade-off is steep. The college has 14 guest faculty as against a sanctioned 28.  We have raised the issues with both political and administrative authorities but nothing has changed. R. Nagender Reddy, Principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/falaknuma-government-degree-college-in-shambles/article36801840.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cases of near-fatal intestinal damage up||A surge in Mesenteric Ischemia cases in a short span is being observed by surgical gastroenterologists at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Panjagutta. Usually, six to seven cases are detected at the institute in a year among people with protein deficiency, the elderly with atherosclerosis, or those with co-morbidities. The NIMS doctors have come across six cases in 3-4 days in the last week alone. It was observed especially in the younger population with no co-morbidities. Detection in late stages can be life-threatening. Intestine removal All the six patients required removal of a significant segment of intestine. Four of the patients needed ventilator support, of which two ultimately succumbed to the disease. The remaining four patients are in a good condition. Head of the surgical gastroenterology department at NIMS, N. Bheerappa pointed the needle of suspicion at COVID-19 as the reason for the recent surge in Mesenteric Ischemia cases. “None of the patients reported to have had any history of COVID illness or exposure. Only two of them had received a single dose of vaccine. Still, antibodies against coronavirus were significantly positive in all six of them pointing to a role of COVID in increase in thrombotic tendencies,” Dr Bheerappa said. COVID-19 has been shown to cause an increase in the clot-forming tendency in blood. He said that this situation calls for a debate on whether anti-coagulants should be continued 10-14 days after COVID is detected. Early detection is key The main risk factors for thrombotic (clots in blood vessels) complications are male gender, hypertension, obesity, cardiovascular disease, and prolonged immobilisation. “Mesenteric Ischemia should be suspected in patients having symptoms like nausea, vomiting, severe abdominal pain, passing blood or black coloured stools or abdominal distension. Blood tests may show an altered ABG (arterial blood gas), prothrombin time, ferritin, lactate, and Ddimer. Triphasic CECT abdomen with mesenteric angiography is the diagnostic imaging of choice to confirm the condition Mesenteric Ischemia,” he said. Treatment of AMI ranges from infusion of blood thinners to surgical removal of large segments of affected intestine. Prognosis can be bad if a significant amount of intestines is removed. Patients sometimes require long-term nutritional support, hospital or ICU stay. To minimise the damage, it is crucial that people know the symptoms of the condition and consult doctors whenever they spot the symptoms. “Early recognition and prompt management is key to successfully achieving good outcome,” he said, adding that damage to the intestines can be reduced if detected in early stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-of-near-fatal-intestinal-damage-up/article36801822.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. suppressing Opposition like Taliban, says Revanth Reddy||The ‘Vidyarthi Nirudyoga Jung Siren’ of the Congress to ‘expose’ the unfulfilled promises made to the youth by the TRS government saw arrests of Congress leaders across the city, including TPCC president Revanth Reddy, who was not allowed to move out of his house with the police laying siege. Hundreds of policemen blocked the route leading to his residence ensuring he wouldn’t get out. Mr. Reddy, along with TPCC Political Affairs Committee convenor Mohammed Ali Shabbir and other leaders and hundreds of workers, staged a sit-in at his residence for quite a long time. Mr. Reddy had a heated argument with the police asking them to show any order on his illegal house arrest. He said as a Parliament member, he had a right to visit his constituency and also participate in the party programme. However, the police said there was no permission for the programme. When asked about his house arrest, the police were mum. Mr. Reddy alleged that the government was behaving like ‘Taliban’, and asked if paying tributes to Telangana martyr Srikanth Chary was a crime in Telangana. “What is your problem if the Congress wants to garland Srikanth Chary statue?,” he asked further saying by deploying hundreds of policemen at Dilsukhnagar and LB Nagar crossroads, the government was giving an impression as if it was an India-Pakistan border. With such actions, the Chief Minister has declared a war against all students and jobless youth, he said. The TPCC chief announced that the ‘jung siren’ (war bugle) against TRS government’s anti-student and anti-youth policies has been sounded and the movement would now spread to all nooks and corners of Telangana in the next 67 days. The Congress MP demanded that the KCR government immediately clear the fee reimbursement dues of over Rs. 4,000 crore and fill 1.91 lakh vacancies, identified by the Biswal Committee. The government should pay the promised unemployment allowance to all eligible persons with retrospective effect from December 2018. Arrests since morning Police prevented the Congress leaders to garland Srikanth Chary’s statue at LB Nagar and arrested TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi and Azmat Hussain when they turned up there. Mr. Yaskhi took serious objection and warned the police for their ‘overzealousness’. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud was arrested at Dilsukhnagar along with youth leaders Manvata Roy, Youth Congress president Shivsena Reddy and NSUI president Venkat Balmoor. Indian Youth Congress national president B.V. Srinivas suffered injuries when the police lathi-charged to prevent his team that tried to garland Srikanth Chary’s statue. Senior leaders T. Jeevan Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar and Adi Srinivas were arrested in Sircilla district and were moved to Chandurthi police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-suppressing-opposition-like-taliban-says-revanth-reddy/article36801857.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transfer of employees willing to shift to Andhra may take some time||Transfer of employees of Andhra Pradesh origin allocated to Telangana but are willing to move to their native State on a permanent basis is likely to take some time. The Andhra Pradesh government is positively examining the orders issued by the Telangana government conveying its no-objection to transfer of employees of AP origin on a permanent basis. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, in the orders issued earlier this month (Sept. 9), said the transfer is subject to specified procedure and the employee concerned should apply to his/her head of the department on or before October 15. Once the HoD ratifies the request, the government would issue no-objection certificate along with the recommendation for transfer. Employees would be relieved once the receipt of acceptance is received from the neighbouring State government. “The order is being examined. There will be response soon,” a senior official of AP dealing with the reorganisation affairs told The Hindu . Transfer of employees between the two States was made earlier on mutual, spouse-related and medical grounds and the same pattern is likely to be adopted this time too, but with certain conditions, the official said. The government is accordingly examining various aspects for drafting guidelines, and inputs are awaited from different departments on the issue. Senior officials estimated that there could be more than 1,000 employees willing to permanently shift to AP. Home Department personnel of constable rank and teachers would be a major chunk of those opting for services in AP. These employees were appointed under the non-local quota in the erstwhile united State and were allotted to Telangana on the basis of their place of work. They are however seeking transfer to their native State since quite some time and the Telangana government had finally issued the orders earlier this month allowing transfer of such employees. The government however made clear that the transfer is permanent one and the employees would not be taken back under any circumstances. “The file allowing such employees who want to come to AP is under consideration by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. A decision on accepting these employees will be taken once proper guidelines are prepared,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfer-of-staffers-willing-to-shift-to-ap-may-take-some-time/article36801860.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor leads State’s tributes to Gandhi||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and her Haryana counterpart Bandaru Dattatreya paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of his 152nd birth anniversary at Bapu Memorial (Ghat) at Langar Houz here on Saturday. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Ministers Md. Mahamood Ali, K.T. Rama Rao, T. Srinivas Yadav, V. Srinivas Goud and Satyavathi Rathod, GHMC Mayor G. Vijayalaxmi, Deputy Mayor M. Srilatha Shobhan, MPs K. Keshava Rao, G. Ranjith Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, legislators D. Nagender, A. Jeevan Reddy, M.S. Prabhakar Rao were among those who paid tributes at the memorial. On the premises of Assembly, Speaker Mr. Srinivas Reddy, Council pro-tem Chairman V. Bhupal Reddy, Legislative Affairs Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, MP J. Santosh Kumar, legislators K. Kavtha, T. Chinnapa Reddy, V. Gangadhar Goud, K. Naveen Kumar, B. Dayanand and Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Acharyulu offered tributes at the Mahatma Gandhi statue there. ‘Rededicate yourselves’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivas Reddy said the State government was developing villages on the lines of grama swarajya and asked elected representatives to rededicate themselves to the welfare and development of the State and the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-leads-states-tributes-to-gandhi/article36801818.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Distribution of Bathukamma sarees begins||The annual distribution of free sarees for poor women for the Bathukamma festival beginning on Tuesday commenced across the State on Saturday. Ministers and MLAs participated in the distribution in their respective constituencies. The government targeted production of 1.08 lakh sarees this year, eight lakh more than last year, with a total cost of Rs. 333 crore. Already 93 lakh sarees had left the production units for storage in godowns and distribution in districts, according to the Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles at Sircilla, Mettakola Sagar. Out of 6.87 crore meters of cloth required for the sarees, only ten lakh meters was ordered from powerlooms in Warangal and twenty lakh meters in Garshakurthi in Karimnagar. The entire remaining cloth was produced at the powerlooms in Sircilla. The sarees were produced in 24 basic designs and 34 colours, but with minor changes in patterns, the number of designs would go up to 810 against 225 last year, Mr. Sagar said. This was made possible because the government insisted with the loom owners to install Jacquard and Dobby technology on the machines. The technology yielded intricate and colourful designs on the fabric. The cost of each saree worked out to Rs. 320. While 98 lakh sarees were of 6.30 meters of length, the remaining 10 lakh sarees were specially made for women who wore a length of nine meters due to their customs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-sarees-distribution-begins/article36801843.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Protest at Bapu Ghat for closing it soon||Senior Congress leaders criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for not paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Bapu ghat and also officials for closing it immediately after Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan left the place after offering her respects on Saturday. Former PCC president V. Hanumantha Rao, former Minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy and other leaders observed a protest dharna in front of Gandhi’s statue at Bapu Ghat. They said that the protest was against the government’s decision to wind up all the arrangements and close the museum immediately after the Governor’s visit. They added that common people were denied an opportunity to pay their homage. Generally, Raj Ghat in Delhi is kept open till 5 p.m. on such occasions, they said. The leaders demanded that the government should take steps to keep Bapu Ghat and all facilities open on Gandhi Jayanti and Martyrs’ Day on January 30 every year. In fact, the government should publicise this to let people know that they can come, pay their homage and see the museum which has Gandhiji’s photographs. Senior TPCC leaders Niranjan, R. Laxman Yadav, and local Congress leaders participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-at-bapu-ghat-for-closing-it-soon/article36801858.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Immigration consultancy asked to refund Rs. 65,000 to applicant||A consumer commission directed an immigration consultancy to refund Rs. 65,000 to an applicant who sought to move to Australia, but scored low on the IELTS test. The commission stated that the consultancy should have assessed whether the applicant could pass this test before entering into an agreement with him. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission – II, Hyderabad was dealing with a complaint filed by Jangam Kumaraswamy (30), a student and resident of Yousufguda, against the opposite party More Visas Immigration Services Pvt Ltd. The complainant stated that he had paid Rs. 70,000 to the consultancy. While he uploaded the required documents, he could not submit the language proficiency certificate because of scores which are deemed inadequate. He then sought from the consultancy a refund. However, the consultancy declined his request. For their part, the opposite party rejected all allegations and maintained that immigration is a lengthy process which involves rigorous scrutiny of documents. It also stated that the service agreement requires the applicant to appear for an ‘IELTS/French’ test in ‘minimum individual total’ as per the requirement of the visa issuing authority. They also stated that the complainant was ineligible for a refund. Taking the evidence and arguments placed on record, the commission stated that given that the applicant is to obtain a minimum individual total, the opposite party should have examined the qualifications of the applicant and applications should be accepted based on their ‘efficiency’. The commission stated that when they examined the complainant ‘across the bench’, he admitted to have passed SSC examination, and completed a diploma in hotel management. “We observed that he is not so proficient to pass the IELTS/FRENCH Test. When the opposite party is entering such type of contracts, they should examine and assess the abilities of such persons,” it stated. It also stated that the opposite party should assess whether the complainant possesses the ‘calibre’ to pass the IELTS/French test, and that no such efforts were made by the opposite party, leading the commission to conclude that there was a deficiency of service. Apart from ordering a refund, costs of Rs. 5,000 were also imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consumer-forum-directs-immigration-consultancy-to-refund-rs-65000-to-applicant/article36801825.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. issues fresh guidelines to take forward Dalit Bandhu||The State government has issued additional guidelines for taking forward the implementation of the Dalit Bandhu scheme as a pilot project on saturation mode in Huzurabad constituency covering all Scheduled Caste households to understand the modalities and pitfalls before scaling it up across the State. Before launching it in Huzurabad, the scheme was sanctioned and launched in Vasalamarri village of Yadadri-Bhongir district. Later, it was announced for four other mandals in the State. Identifying bank As per the guidelines framed and issued for taking forward the scheme, the District Collector concerned shall identify the best suited bank for each mandal and get the special Dalit Bandhu account opened in the name of the head of each beneficiary family after the list of beneficiaries is verified, de-duplicated and finalised. The Collector shall ensure that the passbooks of the special account are handed over to each of the beneficiary families highlighting the special nature of the account and the scheme. The Collector shall then proceed to get the funds to an extent of Rs. 9,90,000 per eligible family credited directly into the beneficiary account. The village-wise final list shall be sorted scheme wise as per the initial preference given by the beneficiaries broadly grouping them into agriculture and allied activities, transport sector, manufacturing and industry, retail and shops, services and supplies. Further, the Collector shall identify resource persons for each of the sector identified from the personnel available in the concerned line departments in the districts and form the sector resource teams. Such teams shall also consist of senior district officers, other related district officials and other personnel deemed suitable by the Collector and the number of teams to be formed in each sector shall depend on the tentative number of beneficiaries opting for that particular sector. Under the guidance of Collector, the sector resource teams shall prepare some model project reports keeping the total outlay of Rs. 10 lakh in view. One unit can consist of more than one sub-unit belonging to the same sector or even different sector – such as a unit consisting of some buffaloes for dairy and few birds for poultry or a unit consisting of few buffaloes and an auto trolley for transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-issues-fresh-guidelines-to-take-forward-dalit-bandhu/article36801853.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Septuagenarian knocks HC doors for return of AgriGold deposits||A septuagenarian knocked the doors of Telangana High Court seeking a direction for the release of at least Rs. 2.6 lakh out of the nearly Rs. 26.40 lakh he had deposited with AgriGold company for his day to day survival and medical expenditure. Seventy-two-year-old Ravikanth Sinha, a retired private engineer, told the court that he lost his wife due to cancer as he could not provide proper medical care since all his hard-earned money and savings were stuck with AgriGold company. In a writ petition, the senior citizen requested the court to instruct the Registrar-Judicial (with whom the proceeds of the sales of Agri-Gold assets were deposited) to release his money deposited with the company. Mr. Sinha claimed that he was facing tough time in his fag end of life without any assured means of income to meet daily expenses. My son is living separately with his family, the petitioner stated. The senior citizen wanted the court to declare the inaction of Telangana government and police of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in securing return of his money from AgriGold company. The petitioner’s counsel Sravan Kumar told the court that AP government released Rs. 900 crore for payment to the victims of AgriGold company. However, Telangana government did not take any such initiative, he contended. A bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and T. Vinod Kumar, after hearing his arguments, sought to know from Telangana government counsel if Telangana government too is willing to come to the rescue of the depositors like AP. The government counsel informed the court that money accrued through sales of AgriGold assets in Telangana was deposited with the HC Registrar (Judicial). Mr. Sravan Kumar told the court that there was no point in depositing money with the HC. The bench assured that the senior citizen’s petition would be further heard along with the plea filed by Telangana AgriGold depositors. Referring to the Andhra Pradesh government’s petition for the transfer of depositors’ petition to AP High Court, the petitioner’s counsel informed the court that the depositors from Telangana were against the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/septuagenarian-knocks-hc-doors-for-return-of-agrigold-deposits/article36801835.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Samantha-Chaitanya announce separation||Actors Samantha Ruth Prabhu and Naga Chaitanya have confirmed that they are separating, after four years of marriage. Samantha posted a message on Instagram stating the news, and that their over-decade long friendship would always be at the core of their relationship. She also added that they will always have a special bond, and requested everyone to give the duo some privacy to move on. The actors met on the sets of Gautham Menon’s Ye Maaya Chesave in 2010 and became friends. After a period of dating, they got engaged and married in 2017. They both most recently acted together in the 2019 Telugu film Majili.  Samantha was most recently seen in the second season of The Family Man, while Naga Chaitanya’s Love Story released last week to positive reviews.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/samantha-chaitanya-decide-to-end-four-year-marriage/article36801828.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Event held for homeless||On the eve of Gandhi Jayanthi, an event titled ‘Under the stars’ was organised for people without homes near Nampally Railway Station on Friday night. People without homes who are usually branded as thieves, alcoholics, were asked to share their side of stories, dreams, and struggles. The programme was held by Aman Vedika, and a platform titled Campaign for Citizens’ Shelters to under homelessness through eyes of people who stay by the side of roads, on platforms near railway stations, and other places. Medical camps, food and clothes distribution were organised at the railway station as part of the event. “We held the programme to understand and express solidarity with people who are homeless. We have explained them about the option of government shelter homes, vaccination programmes, and other topics which can help them stay under a roof,” said R Indiramma, general secretary at Aman Vedika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/event-held-for-homeless/article36801833.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court rider on EFLU appointments||Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy of Telangana High Court had passed an order that the appointments made to 68 teaching posts in English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) were subject to the outcome of a writ petition challenging the appointments. In an interim order, the judge told the EFLU counsel to inform the selected candidates about the pendancy of the writ petition Kanaparthi Pavani. Earlier, TPCC spokesperson D. Sravan Kumar approached National BC Commission stating that the appointments were being made in violation of OBC reservations. The Commission issued an order staying the appointments which was challenged by university in the High Court. A division bench of the High Court recently declared the stay order issued by the Commission was ultra vires of the rules. Subsequently, the university completed the appointment process. Meanwhile, a writ petition challenging the appointments came before the bench of Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-rider-on-eflu-appointments/article36801834.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two-day TiE Sustainability Summit from tomorrow||The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Hyderabad in association with Adani group will host a virtual conference `TiE Sustainability Summit 2021’ from October 4 to 6 with the theme `where entrepreneurship meets sustainability’. The annual summit will bring together about 25,000 entrepreneurs from 25 countries, investors, eminent speakers, social enterprises, and spiritual and wellness gurus to create a global platform for sharing the best practices for sustainable organisations from partner countries. Around 25 TiE chapters of TiE Global from the Americas, Europe, Africa, India, and APAC are expected to join in at the summit. The TiE Sustainability Summit will emphasize on entrepreneurial opportunities emerging in the sustainability space and help strategize business growth by throwing light on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The key elements of the summit’s agenda are as follows: Eminent speakers such as Ratan Tata, Gautam Adani, Sadhguru, Ram Charan, Navi Radjou, Nitin Gadkari, and many more are expected to speak at the event. Interested participants were requested to register soon for online-offline event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-day-tie-sustainability-summit-from-tomorrow/article36801836.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 201 more coronavirus infections||Telangana recorded 201 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total to 6,66,384.While 41,690 samples were put to test, results of 1,408 were awaited. The new cases included 68 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 23 from Karimnagar, and 13 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in six districts including Nirmal and Narayanpet. One more patient died, taking the death toll to 3,920. As of Saturday evening, there were 4,541 active cases.  A little over 3.08 lakh people received COVID-19 vaccine on Friday. Of them, 2.22 lakh took the first dose and 86,725 the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-201-more-coronavirus-infections/article36801978.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A.R. Rehman music for song||The magical music of Oscar awardeee A.R. Rehman will add value to the Batukamma song produced by Telangana Jagruthi led by MLC K. Kavitha. The video of the song is directed by noted director Gautam Menon, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ar-rehman-music-for-song/article36801837.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PD Act against human trafficker||The Rachakonda police invoked Preventive Detention Act against an alleged inter-State human trafficking offender. Police identified the accused as Mozam Mondal, a native of West Bengal. The accused used to get women from one Litton Sarkar, a Bangladeshi, and run an online brothel in Rachakonda Police Commissionerate limits, police said. He was detained under the PD Act in 2020 after which he moved the Telangana High Court which set the order aside. Police said that after his release, he resorted to similar activities and began his prostitution operations again. He posts photos of women on Locanto app and gets in touch with male customers. Police embarked on a decoy operation and acting on a tip-off, the Anti Human Trafficking Team laid a trap and arrested the accused on August 30. Meanwhile, a woman victim was rescued and sent to a rehabilitation home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-human-trafficker/article36801847.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police arrest accused in Telugu Akademi case||The Central Crime Station on Saturday announced the arrest of Shaik Mastanvali Saheb, in the Telugu Akademi case, in which Rs. 43 crore were siphoned off. According to police, FDRs were closed and the amount was withdrawn by the accused. The accused, who was arrested, is a chief manager and previously worked in the Union Bank of India’s Karwan Branch. He was arrested on Friday. A case under sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. “Investigation revealed that the chief manager, on the basis of fake documents created by other accused, liquidated FDs of Telugu Akademi and transferred money to the account of A.P. Mercantile Co-Operative Credit Society in Agrasen Bank without requisite checks,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-arrest-accused-in-telugu-akademi-case/article36801848.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs on Tank Bund today||The Hyderabad City Police on Saturday announced the placing on traffic restrictions keeping in view the pedestrianisation of Tank Bund. According to police, traffic moving from Liberty towards Upper Tank Bund will not be allowed, but diverted at Ambedkar Statue towards Telugu Talli and Iqbal Minar. Similarly traffic from Telugu Talli towards Upper Tank Bund will be diverted at Ambedkar Statue towards Liberty. Vehicles moving from Karbala Maidan towards Upper Tank Bund will be diverted at Sailing Club towards Kavadiguda DBR Mills - Lower Tank bund – Katta Maisamma Temple – Telugu Thalli Flyover. Traffic from DBR Mills towards Upper Tank Bund will be diverted at DBR Mills towards Ghosala – Kavadiguda – Jabbar Complex – Bible House. Vehicles moving from Iqbal Minar towards Secunderabad will be diverted at Old Secretariat towards Telugu Talli Flyover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-curbs-on-tank-bund-today/article36801849.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress workers detained||Congress workers and supporters, who had converged in droves at LB Nagar on Saturday in connection with the ‘unemployment’ protest called by TPCC chief Revanth Reddy, were dispersed by the police, who were present in large numbers, even as protesters were raising slogans. Police did not allow several Congress leaders, including Mr. Reddy, and others like Feroz Khan, to leave their respective houses. Mr. Reddy and Congress MLA Danasari Anasuya took to Twitter and shared images alleging that Telangana NSUI president Vankat Balamoor was attacked. Some Congress workers who were protesting at the Dilsukhnagar-LB Nagar stretch were detained and released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-workers-detained/article36801862.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Food packets distributed||Officials of the State Health department along with Sri Rama Krishna Seva Samithi distributed food packets to around 80 pregnant women near Primary Health Centre, Ankoli in Adilabad distributed, on Saturday. District Medical and Health Officer Narendra Rathod said that along with the nutritional supplements, they imparted behavioural education such as dos and don’ts regarding the ante-natal period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-packets-distributed/article36801823.ece
03 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book launched for US education aspirants||Managing director of KIMS Hospitals B. Bhaskar Rao launched the book titled ‘Dollar Dreamz’ penned by Aluru Subhas Babu here on Saturday. Dr Rao said the book would work as a guide for people aspiring to study in American universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-launched-for-us-education-aspirants/article36801820.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fit India campaign||Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) Director T. Srinivasa Kumar flagged off the ‘Fit India Freedom Run 2.0’on October 1, 2021 as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav which aims to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. Around 80 employees participated in the campaign and took the ‘Fit India’ pledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fit-india-campaign/article36801832.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Automatic coach cleaning facility in Sec’bad||SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya inaugurated an automatic coach washing plant at coaching depot, Secunderabad, which can complete the exterior cleaning of a 24 coach train in 8-10 minutes. The plant is a multistage external cleaning system using vertical rotating brushes and pressurised water and soap solution jets for cleaning with just one person required for the job. Fresh water consumption for automatic coach washing gets reduced by around 85% (1,440 litres & 5,760 litres of recycled water) as compared to the normal manual washing method (9,600 litres). With around 168 coaches washed daily, 20,848 kilo litres per year can be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/automatic-coach-cleaning-facility-in-secbad/article36801841.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Panel on podu land holds meet||The Cabinet sub-committee on podu land held its third meeting here on Saturday. Chaired by Minister for Tribal Welfare Satyavathi Rathod, the meeting was attended by Ministers A. Indrakaran Reddy (Forests, Law and Endowments), Puvvada Ajay Kumar (Transport) and G. Jagadish Reddy (Energy). Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Special Chief Secretary A. Santhi Kumari (Forests), Commissioner of Tribal Welfare Christina Z. Chongthu, Special Officer CCLA Sarfaraz Ahmed, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shobha and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-on-podu-land-holds-meet/article36801855.ece
03 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||DLSA launches legal awareness programme||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Saturday launched the flagship six-week legal awareness and outreach programme. Designed by the National Legal Services Authority, the programme between October 2 and November 14, will focus on spreading awareness about legal services in villages and far-flung areas in the district. DLSA chairman and First Additional District Judge M. Nagaraju and secretary G. Venu said that the pan-India awareness programme was in the backdrop of the 75th anniversary of Independence. Panel lawyers and para-legal volunteers will tour villages. Using pamphlets, books and learning aids, these officials would explain residents about functioning of courts, rights recognised by the Constitution and accessing legal services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dlsa-launches-legal-awareness-programme/article36801819.ece
03 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Piped gas provision for 2-BHK house beneficiaries||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said his life has got a meaning since he has been able to help the needy with the blessings of Chief Minister K. Chanrasekhar Rao. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating piped gas supply for beneficiaries of the double bedroom houses at KCR Nagar here, along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, the Minister said they were providing gas connection at lower cost as compared to the market price. “Companies are charging about Rs. 7,000 for piped gas supply connection. You are being provided supply for only Rs. 1,000. We have convinced the company towards this and for the first time in the district, gas is supplied through pipelines,” said Mr. Harish Rao, alleging that the Union government has hiked the prices of petrol, diesel and gas 21 times so far and burdening the common man. He said with piped gas, 35% to 40% money can be saved and it is also a safer option. Inaugurating the distribution of Bathukamma saris at KCR Colony, the Minister said that about saris in about 110 colours will be given to 3.83 lakh food security card holders over the next two days. “We have constructed 3,000 double bedroom houses for the poor in the constituency limits and another 500 were sanctioned by the Chief Minister and they will be ready in two months. At KCR Nagar, 1,976 houses have been handed over to the beneficiaries and another 1,000 will be constructed shortly. Tender process is complete and land has been identified,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/piped-gas-for-2-bhk-house-beneficiaries/article36801824.ece
03 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Water storage reaches 10 tmcft in Mallannasagar||After more than one month of pumping Godavari water from Kaleshwaram, the water stored at Mallannasagar had reached 10 tmc feet on Friday. The irrigation officials are planning to run the pumps on Saturday also and it is expected that the water level in the reservoir would reach 10.5 tmcft, which would be the minimum draw level. The pumping of water to Mallannasagar commenced at 3 a.m. on August 22 after a puja was performed by engineer-in-chief B. Hari Ram along with superintending engineer T. Venu. As the water level steadily started rising in the reservoir, many oustees have been posting photos of their villages getting submerged in the Godavari water. Many have expressed their agony at losing their village and identity. “Whenever we are passing on the bund of Mallannasagar, the feeling of missing our villages hurts us deep and at times tears roll down our cheeks. Our ancestors were born here, lived here and passed away here only. We had our childhood and education here. Some of us even performed marriages of our children and grandchildren in these villages. Now, we are seeing the Godavari water slowly swallowing our villages and it is painful,” Kasha Chandu, an oustee of Vemulaghat village in Toguta mandal, one of the submerged villages, told The Hindu . Currently, all of them are living in the temporary accommodation provided by the authorities as some of them asked for only plots with an intention to construct houses on their own. Those who opted for houses were allotted houses. Almost all the villages are now submerged in the rising waters of Mallannasagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-storage-reaches-10-tmcft-in-mallannasagar/article36801982.ece
03 October 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Two youngsters killed in accident||Two persons, in their 20s, were killed after a heavy earth mover ran over them near Pillalamarri village limits on Saturday. Both the rider and the pillion rider were not wearing helmets. They died at the accident site before arrival of any emergency service. According to Suryapet rural police, the victims were identified as Meka Harshavardhan Reddy and Tirugudu Chanti of Inupamula village in Kethepally mandal. It was said that the motorcycle skidded and an earth mover that was just behind them ran over them causing severe bleeding and head injuries. The driver of the heavy vehicle is reportedly absconding. Nakrekal legislator later met the victim families, hailing from Inupamula in his constituency, at the Suyapet Area hospital and condoled with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-accident/article36801844.ece
03 October 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||MoRD team conducts Gram Sabha in Bibinagar||Joint Secretary Charanjit Singh and Director Raghvendra Pratap Singh of the Rural Livelihoods division of the Ministry of Rural Development on Saturday visited Bibinagar and conducted a Gram Sabha at Meedi tanda. Identification of works under the Employment Guarantee Scheme and listing them on priority-basis for development is the agenda of the visit, they said. The Gram Sabha exercises, across select villages in the State, with 2020-23 as the target, will continue till January 31. The officials said that the plan was to start nearly 30 water conservation methods at every village level. Rain water harvesting, recharge pits and rejuvenation of water tanks, are some of them. Other works include growing food for cattle, avenue plantation, monkey food courts and others. Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Deepak Tiwari and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mord-team-conducts-gram-sabha-in-bibinagar/article36801859.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Socially (ir)responsible||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/socially-irresponsible/article36801852.ece
03 October 2021||Bhopal,||Chhattisgarh is no Punjab, asserts Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday refuted speculation on a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled State ahead of an impending visit by former party president Rahul Gandhi, the dates for which haven’t been announced yet. Pressed by reporters at the Raipur helipad about the BJP drawing a parallel between Punjab and Chhattisgarh vis-a-vis dissensions within the Congress units in the two States, Mr. Baghel replied obliquely: “Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two States have only one similarity – both have numbers in their name. Punjab is land of punj (five) aab (water), five rivers. Similarly, Chhattisgarh has derived its name from chhattis garh (36 forts). No other States have numbers in their name.” Mr. Baghel was made Chief Minister reportedly on a rotation formula worked out by then party president Rahul Gandhi in 2018 whereby he was to hand over the stewardship of the State government to Cabinet colleague, Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, this year. There was, however, no official announcement about a power-sharing deal to that effect. While both the Chief Minister and the Health Minister have avoided direct public statements on the rotation formula in the recent past, Mr. Baghel has shown no sign of any willingness to step down. His supporters, in fact, point to his being named as senior observer for the Congress ahead of the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh as an endorsement of his leadership in Chhattisgarh. His supporters believe the Congress is not prepared to dislodge the powerful OBC leader at a juncture when the BJP is tightening its grip over OBCs across the country. ‘CM scored a goal’ “I think Mr. Chief Minister has scored a goal and a possible win,” a Congress MLA quipped while glued to an English Premier League football match. Amid speculation of possible leadership change in the State, around two dozen party MLAs, believed to be close to the Chief Minister, flew to Delhi in the past few days. “Many party legislators are camping in Delhi to meet AICC in-charge of Chhattisgarh P.L. Punia ahead of Rahul Gandhi’s proposed tour of the State”, a senior party leader told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhattisgarh-is-no-punjab-asserts-baghel/article36801749.ece
03 October 2021||Guwahati,||‘Keep Brus out of Mizoram bypoll’||Mizoram’s main opposition party has asked the State’s Chief Electoral Officer to ensure that displaced Brus allowed to settle in adjoining Tripura do not cast their votes in the upcoming by-election to the Tuirial Assembly seat. Tuirial, which goes to the polls on October 30, is in Kolasib district. In a letter to CEO P. Jawahar on October 1, the Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM) said the Brus who left Mizoram and are to be settled in Tripura should not be allowed to vote. Some 40,000 Brus had fled to Tripura following ethnic tension triggered by the murder of a Mizo forest guard in 1997. Settlement pact More than 11,100 Bru refugees returned to Mizoram during at least nine attempts to repatriate them until November 2019, after which a quadripartite agreement was signed for settling the others in Tripura. The agreement was signed among the Centre, the Mizoram and Tripura governments and Bru organisations. But some 12,000 Brus are still enrolled in the voters’ list of Mizoram as the process of repatriating them to Tripura has not yet been completed. The ZPM in November 2020 wrote to the Election Commission of India to delete the names of these 12,000 Bru voters from the electoral rolls of Mizoram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/keep-brus-out-of-mizoram-bypoll/article36801872.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||A high life awaits liquor buyers||Empty shelves at 260 private liquor stores across the Capital greeted buyers wanting to stock up premium brands of their choice as the news about the vends downing their stutters from October 1 to November 16 created a buying frenzy last week. The shops promise to reopen on November 17 in a new avatar, keeping with the guidelines of the Excise Policy 2021-22 brought in by the Delhi government, which plans to exit the sale of liquor. In the interim period (October 1 to November 16), over 500 government-run liquor shops will cater to the demand before closing down permanently. Come November 17, as many as 844 new liquor stores — all private outlets — will open in the city with a promise to change the experience of buying alcohol. According to the new policy, all vends will be spacious (at least 500 sq. ft.), air-conditioned and have glass doors, allowing customers to walk-in and choose their brands. The owners will have to ensure there is no crowding outside the store and no dry snacks or cooked food outlets, that encourage people to drink and loiter, are run outside the premises. “The current retail experience is like a jail. When you go to a liquor shop, there is a grill and people rush and throw money to buy liquor. There is no dignity,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said in March while announcing the new excise policy. The government also hopes to generate more revenue from exiting the liquor business as the licence fee has been increased substantially. Mr. Sisodia estimated an additional revenue of Rs. 3,500 crore from implementing the new policy during the current financial year. Super Premium Vends To enhance the liquor buying experience further, five Super Premium Vends (SPV), of size not less than 2,500 sq. ft., will come up and sell products only above Rs. 200 in case of beer and above Rs. 1,000 for all other spirits. The SPVs can dedicate up to 10% of their space to sell ancillary products such as cigars, liquor chocolates etc., high-end artwork and high-value merchandise such as bottle openers, ice boxes, bar glasses etc. The SPVs have been permitted to set up a tasting room — an enclosed area not visible from rest of the store — within the premises, where training and tasting sessions will be held. The government is yet to float tenders for the SPVs and they won’t open on November 17. Hoarding frenzy The 47-day transition period, when only government-run liquor shops will remain open, triggered a hoarding frenzy in the city last week with buyers fearing overcrowding at the vends and shortage of premium brands. Private stores that were shutting down also made an attempt to get rid of their stock. Hearing of a possibility of liquor shortage and factoring in the upcoming festival season, Niketan Sabharwal, who runs a travel agency, decided to stock up from the liquor section at a west Delhi mall. He said he reached the mall slightly earlier than usual, only to find the entire section buzzing with activity at 9.30 a.m. “Most shops had moved a lot of their stock near the door. Not only were the sellers politely soliciting buyers but also offering discounts on bulk orders. I got almost half a crate of beer and an entire bottle of budget scotch at no extra charge,” he said. Anwar Ali (name changed on request), who is employed at a private liquor vend in east Delhi, said his employer had tasked him with bringing buyers to the shop for the last 10 days. “I and a couple of my colleagues formed a chain to ensure that the customers come to our shop out of countless others near ours so we can finish our stock as soon as possible,” he said. When contacted, the Delhi government spokesperson said that people did not need to hoard liquor as all government-owned shops will continue to function. “Delhi is witnessing a transition phase in liquor management. Government-owned liquor shops have been instructed to make sure they have sufficient stocks to fulfil the demand during this period. The liquor shops have been directed to release payments on time to suppliers. We expect that in a situation where sufficient supply is maintained, crowding or any other incidents will not happen,” the spokesperson said. Asked about the need to shut down private vends from October 1 to November 16, an official in the Excise Department said: “It is for the smooth transition to the new policy.” Naresh Goel, president of Delhi Liquor Traders Association, said that the government did not give an explanation on why private liquor vends are being closed for so many days. He said it could because the traders approached the Delhi High Court, opposing the new liquor policy and the closing of vends, and the legalities involved in the matter. Under the new policy, the government has divided the city into 32 zones and allotted 849, including five SPVs, for equal distribution of liquor vends. Before this process, 79 of the 272 municipal wards in the city did not have a liquor vend and 58% of Delhi was either unserved or underserved, the government said. Also, under the new excise policy, the legal age for liquor consumption in the city has been reduced to 21 from 25 years. Welcoming the move, Swati Gulati, 25, who works in the HR Department of a private firm, said: “Throughout my student years I found the drinking age limit ridiculous. The experience of buying alcohol has improved with shops opening up in malls and I feel the new shops will help women like me feel safer buying alcohol.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-high-life-awaits-liquor-buyers/article36801757.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t play politics over Chhath Puja: CM||The ban on organising Chhath Puja at public places snowballed into a political issue on Saturday even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to his opponents not to “indulge in politics” over the issue. Speaking on the sidelines of a ceremony at the Delhi Assembly, Mr. Kejriwal sought to assert that restrictions imposed on the Chhath Puja were for the safety of citizens amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “There is a risk involved because if even one person is infected, he or she can spread it to everyone else through the medium of water [during arghyas ],” Mr. Kejriwal said. North-East Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, who had on Friday met with representatives of Chhath Puja samitis, requested Mr. Kejriwal to join him in requesting L-G Anil Baijal, also Delhi Disaster Management Authority chairperson, to lift the curbs. Mr. Tiwari referred to tweets from AAP MLAs blaming the L-G for the decision to put across his point. “@ArvindKejriwal, your party members are also in support of our demand, you are requested that the government makes a proposal that Chhath Puja should be observed on the banks of ponds and the Yamuna within the limits of COVID-19 rules,” Mr. Tiwari tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-play-politics-over-chhath-puja-cm/article36801750.ece
03 October 2021||New Delhi,||Class X boy kills senior; apprehended||A Class XI student was stabbed to death allegedly by Class X student of the same government school in south-east Delhi’s Okhla, the police said on Saturday. The accused has been apprehended, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Esha Pandey said they received information on Friday evening regarding a stabbing incident near government senior secondary school in Tehkhand. The boys were in their school uniform at that time, an officer said. Enquiry revealed that the accused committed the crime as the victim had abused his mother and refused to apologise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/class-x-boy-kills-senior-apprehended/article36801751.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s time to relish the ilish||The Internet is bursting with pictures of the hilsa these days. WhatsApp messages have been shouting with glee about huge stacks arriving at the CR Park fish markets. Just as I was drooling over a picture of plump hilsa pieces soaked in mustard, I heard from a couple of friends that Oh! Calcutta had a special hilsa combo on offer. I called the restaurant and found that the hamper consisted of two pieces of steamed hilsa ( ilish paturi ), two pieces of hilsa cooked with brinjal ( ilish beguner jhol ), two betki fish fries, potato cauliflower curry ( aloo phoolkopir dalna ), roasted moong dal ( bhaja moong dal ) and potato fritters ( aloo bhaja ) with steamed Basmati rice. For dessert, it had tomato date chutney , kheer with rice and two malpuas . This is for Rs. 3,300 (including taxes). But the hamper, as I subsequently discovered, was enough for two people, and, in our case, was right for three, with a piece left over for dinner. As I waited for the food to arrive, I marvelled at how Delhi had embraced Bengal’s food in the last few decades. Bengalis were among the first to migrate to the city as the new Capital took shape, but there were only a few basic places where a Bengali migrant could get a homelike meal. Prominent among them was Basu Lodge. It offered rooms and food, and continued to do so for decades. I remember having a simple but satisfying meal there several years ago. For years, when so-called Punjabi food and Chinese cuisine flourished in parts of the city, there was little that Delhi offered in eastern Indian cuisine. Oh! Calcutta was one of the first to serve Bengal food in general and Calcutta food in particular. In the past few years, small eateries have come up in the city. The problem is that while the food is uniformly good, some of these small delivery places open and shut before you can say ‘Babumoshai’. Oh! Calcutta has been hit by the pandemic too. Its first outlet in the NCR at Nehru Place shut down a while ago. It now occupies what was Mainland China (run by the same group) in Greater Kailash II. It delivers food through the food apps. Thefood came well-packed and sealed in containers in a carton. I started my meal with a delicious piece of fried fish – a large and firm betki fillet which had been crumbed and golden fried. The fried potatoes — crunchy slivers — went well with the roasted dal, cooked with green peas. I then had the cauliflower and potato dish, which was mildly sweet and had just the right balance of spices. I turned to the steamed hilsa — fish wrapped and steamed in a banana leaf. This was a large piece of fish which had been smeared with mustard paste and then steamed. The fish had absorbed the flavours of the mustard, and I loved its sharp flavour. I tried the gravy of the eggplant hilsa preparation and enjoyed it, while everyone else at home gave it an A plus. The chutney came next — sweet and tart. I, however, found it a bit too sweet. Malpua is an old favourite of mine, so that went down well too, even though the fennel flavour was somewhat mild. All in all, the hilsa treat was truly worth it. I have come to the conclusion that the plain steamed hilsa in mustard paste is the best. Ilish then is truly delish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/its-time-to-relish-the-ilish/article36801755.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Angry Taiwan slams China’s ‘aggression’||Taiwan on Saturday hit out at China’s “military aggression” and said it had scrambled aircraft in response to a record incursion by 38 Chinese aircraft in two waves on Friday. Reports on Friday had initially said China’s military had sent 25 aircraft, coinciding with China’s October 1 National Day, towards Taiwan. Taiwan’s Defence Ministry said on Saturday a further 13 aircraft, in a second wave, had also entered the Air Defence Identification Zone. The first incursion included 18 J-16s, four Su-30s, two nuclear H-6 bombers and one anti-submarine aircraft. The later incursion had 10 J-16s, 2 H-6s and an early warning aircraft. The Ministry said another incursion was reported on Saturday of 20 aircraft. Taiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang was quoted as saying by Reuters that China had been “wantonly engaged in military aggression, damaging regional peace”. The incursions on Friday and Saturday followed China on September 23 sending 19 aircraft into the ADIZ. China’s signalling Beijing has in the past used its air force incursions as a form of signalling. The September 23 incident coincided with Taiwan saying it had submitted an application to join the 11-nation CPTPP (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) trade deal, days after China said it had formally applied to join the Pacific pact. Beijing previously also dispatched fighters to coincide with visits of U.S. diplomats to Taiwan. The latest show of force came on China’s National Day and ahead of the October 10 National Day to be celebrated by Taiwan, and was aimed at sending a message to both Taipei and Washington. China views Taiwan as its province, although both have been ruled separately since the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949 when the Kuomintang (KMT) fled to the island. Tensions across the straits have been growing with Beijing accusing the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and President Tsai Ing-wen, who was re-elected for a second term last year, of pursuing “independence”. Prior to the DPP coming to power in 2016, tensions had cooled under the KMT’s Ma Ying-Jeou, who held a landmark meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2015 and backed an economic cooperation agreement that was signed in 2010. Beijing has increasingly sought to push back against Taiwan’s presence in international bodies and to wean away the few remaining countries that continue to maintain diplomatic ties with Taiwan. It has also sought to respond strongly to any moves it sees from Washington, such as the presence of U.S. vessels in the straits, with Taiwan one of the key issues that China and the U.S. have been clashing over. The Chinese Foreign Ministry last month strongly hit out at Taiwan's application to join the CPTPP. “There is only one China in the world,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/angry-taiwan-slams-chinas-aggression/article36801256.ece
03 October 2021||Doha,||Qataris vote in first polls to Shura Council||Qataris were voting in the emirate's first legislative election on Saturday in a symbolic nod to democracy that analysts say will not lead to power shifting away from the ruling family. The vote is for 30 members of the 45-strong Shura Council, a body with limited powers that was previously appointed by the emir as an advisory chamber. Polls opened at 0500 GMT and will close at 1500 GMT with the results expected the same day. Some 101 candidates, more than one-third of the entire field, had dropped out of the race by Saturday afternoon according to state-run Qatar TV , apparently to support other candidates in their constituencies. After the withdrawals, there were 183 candidates in contention for the 30 seats with the remaining 15 to be appointed by the emir. Across the Arabian desert peninsula nation, orderly queues of Qataris in national dress formed inside polling stations, mostly schools and sports halls. They cast their ballots into semi-transparent plastic boxes emblazoned with the dhow boat, crossed swords and palm tree emblem of Qatar. Heightened scrutiny Observers say the decision to hold the election, required under the 2004 constitution but repeatedly delayed in the “national interest”, comes amid heightened scrutiny as Qatar prepares to host the 2022 World Cup. “It’s a way to show that they are moving in the right direction, that they want to achieve more political participation” before the World Cup, said Luciano Zaccara, an assistant professor in Gulf politics at Qatar University. The Shura will be allowed to propose legislation, approve the budget and recall ministers. But the emir, all-powerful in the world's largest exporter of liquefied natural gas, will wield a veto. “It’s a landmark, voting for the first time here — it's incredible that I get to be part of it. When I was putting my tick, folding it and putting it in the box, I felt like I was part of something bigger,” said Doha voter Sheikha Ateeq al-Khulaifi, 25. Beyond single-candidate town hall meetings, posters and TV spots, the country's electoral exercise has been limited, with no change of government possible and political parties outlawed. Few women in fray Candidates have uniformly avoided debate about Qatar's foreign policy or status as a monarchy, instead focussing on social issues including healthcare, education and citizenship rights. All candidates had to be approved by the powerful interior ministry against a host of criteria. Candidates were also required to register official campaign events with the ministry in advance, as well as the names of all speakers as authorities seek to clamp down on possible sectarianism or tribalism. Just one in ten of the originally confirmed candidates were women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/qataris-vote-in-first-polls-to-shura-council/article36801253.ece
03 October 2021||Manila,||Philippine President Duterte announces retirement||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said on Saturday that he will not run for vice president in 2022 and will retire from politics, potentially paving the way for his daughter to contest the country's highest office. Mr. Duterte, who polls show remains almost as popular as when he was swept to victory in 2016 on a promise to rid the country of drugs, is constitutionally barred from seeking a second term as leader. “The overwhelming... sentiment of the Filipinos is that I am not qualified and it would be a violation of the constitution to circumvent the law, the spirit of the constitution” to run for the vice presidency, Mr. Duterte, 76, said. “Today I announce my retirement from politics.” The authoritarian firebrand declared in August he would contest the country’s second-highest office in the May election — a move critics said was motivated by fear that he could face criminal charges after leaving office. But a recent poll showed Mr. Duterte well back in second place among preferred vice presidents. A survey by Social Weather Stations showed 60% of Filipinos did not think Mr. Duterte's run for the vice presidency was in the spirit of the constitution. Mr. Duterte made the surprise announcement at the venue where he was expected to register his candidacy. He did not specify when he would leave politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/philippine-president-duterte-announces-retirement/article36801251.ece
03 October 2021||Washington,||Joe Biden promises to see through the spending Bills||U.S. President Joe Biden vowed on Friday to get his sweeping domestic agenda over the line as he visited the U.S. Congress to energise Democrats negotiating for a second day on the twin make-or-break spending Bills that could define his legacy — or spell crippling political failure. “I’m telling you, we’re going to get this done,” he told reporters after meeting with House Democrats who are deeply divided on a spending spree that Mr. Biden says would restore America’s battered middle class. “It doesn’t matter when. It doesn't matter whether it’s in six minutes, six days or six weeks, we’re gonna get it done,” he said. The unusual presidential visit follows weeks of trips by party leaders in the other direction to the White House as Mr. Biden tries to get the two ambitious spending plans passed into law. One would funnel $1.2 trillion into repairing infrastructure and the other would allocate even more for education, child care, and promoting clean energy. “These are his proposals. These are his bold ideas,” Mr. Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters. “This is his plan that he's outlined: to not just rebuild our roads, our railways and bridges, and put millions of people back to work, but also to make child care, elder care, (pre-school schemes) more cost effective, to address the climate crisis. And he wants to make the case directly to members.” Mr. Biden’s political legacy is at stake and so probably are the Democrats’ chances of keeping control of Congress in midterm elections next year. However, on Thursday, a game of chicken between moderate Democrats and more leftwing members over the Bills ended in stalemate. Their razor-thin majority in Congress means that even a few defections could prevent votes from succeeding. The impasse on the Democratic side is rooted in political differences over how much the government should spend, but also on the sheer lack of trust between competing factions. Ms. Psaki said the administration's outreach to congressional Democrats and their staff had included at least 300 phone calls or meetings since September 1. During the 2020 campaign Mr. Biden repeatedly touted his dealmaking chops — established during his four decades as a senator — but he has made the journey up to Capitol Hill only rarely as President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joe-biden-promises-to-see-through-the-spending-bills/article36801246.ece
03 October 2021||Beijing,||China launches investigation into former Justice Minister||Authorities in China announced on Saturday they were investigating the country’s former Justice Minister, the latest senior cadre to be drawn into Beijing's sweeping anti-corruption drive. A growing number of top Communist figures have been caught up in President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption campaign, which critics say has also served as a way to remove the leader's political enemies since he came to power in 2013. Fu Zhenghua — who has held key roles in Beijing including Minister of Justice and head of the Public Security Bureau — is being investigated for “serious violation of discipline and law”, according to a statement. Once Beijing’s top police official, Mr. Fu is thought to have led the corruption investigation into Zhou Yongkang, the former security czar who was jailed in 2015 in one of the campaign’s most high-profile cases. But he is now facing his own investigation by anti-graft body, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI). Mr. Fu is currently the deputy director of the social and legal affairs committee on the standing committee of the largely ceremonial advisory body, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). The CDDI's statement comes just days after the former deputy public security minister Sun Lijun — who oversaw security in Hong Kong during months of unrest — was expelled from the party for corruption. More than a million officials have been punished under the anti-corruption campaign so far, which has been a cornerstone of Mr. Xi’s tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-launches-investigation-into-former-justice-minister/article36801248.ece
03 October 2021||Washington,||Khashoggi widow urges U.S. to hold Saudis accountable||Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi's widow on Friday questioned U.S. President Joe Biden's commitment to hold the kingdom accountable three years after the writer's brutal murder. Marking the anniversary, Hatice Cengiz traveled to Washington for a demonstration outside the Saudi embassy and an evening vigil near the U.S. Capitol where she unveiled a portrait of Khashoggi made out of newspaper columns. She voiced dismay that days ahead of the anniversary, Mr. Biden’s national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman who U.S. intelligence says ordered the killing. “Is this what the accountability that Mr. Biden promised looks like?” she asked at the candlelight vigil organised by rights groups. “MBS took Jamal from me and the entire world. Will you hold him accountable or will you reward these murderers?” she said, referring to the 36-year-old heir apparent by his initials. Khashoggi, a prominent Saudi who lived in self-exile in the United States, wrote critically about MBS in columns in The Washington Post . Also addressing the evening vigil was the sister of Abdulrahman al-Sadhan, a Red Crescent aid worker who was arrested in 2018 and earlier this year was handed a 20-year sentence after criticising the Saudi leadership through an anonymous Twitter account. She said she was hopeful the new U.S. administration's pressure would win her brother's release but that changed after Mr. Biden let MBS “off the hook.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/khashoggi-widow-urges-us-to-hold-saudis-accountable/article36801249.ece
03 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. surpasses 7,00,000 COVID deaths: Johns Hopkins varsity||U.S. fatalities from COVID-19 surpassed 7,00,000 on Friday, according Johns Hopkins University, a toll roughly equivalent to the population of the nation’s capital Washington. The grim threshold comes with an average of over 1,000 dying each day, in a country where 55.7% of the population is now fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-surpasses-700000-covid-deaths-johns-hopkins-varsity/article36801257.ece
03 October 2021||Islamabad,||IS behind Pakistan Sikh man’s death||The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for killing a member of Pakistan’s minority Sikh community earlier in the week in Peshawar. An IS statement issued late on Friday described Satnam Singh, 45, as “polytheist” and said he was shot dead by IS members. The extremist group has claimed a number of attacks on security forces, mosques, political rallies and religious minorities in recent years.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-behind-pakistan-sikh-mans-death/article36801254.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reliance floats UAE arm for trading in oil, petro products||Reliance Industries has incorporated a new subsidiary in the UAE for trading in crude oil, petroleum products and agricultural commodities. Reliance International Ltd. (RINL) has been incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Abu Dhabi Global Market, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), RIL said in a stock exchange filing. Equity investment “The company has invested Rs. 7.42 crore, or $1 million in cash, in 10 lakh equity shares of $1 each of ‘Reliance International Limited’,” RIL said in the filing. The plans follow an announcement in June that the Indian conglomerate would invest in projects of Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to produce chemicals that could be used for infrastructure and consumer goods. “RINL is incorporated to undertake activities relating to, amongst others, trading of crude oil, petroleum products, petrochemicals and agricultural commodities. RINL is yet to commence its business operations,” the company said. ‘No promoter interest’ The investment in RINL does not fall within related- party transactions and the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies do not have any interest in RINL, it said adding no governmental or regulatory approvals were required for the investment. Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) operates the world’s largest oil refining complex at Jamnagar in Gujarat and has several petrochemical units in the country.  RIL said in June that it would invest in the projects of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to make chemicals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-floats-uae-arm-for-trading-in-oil-petro-products/article36801616.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Goal is to create ecosystem for EVs: Greaves Cotton MD||Engineering firm Greaves Cotton is engaged in transforming itself into a green-energy entity with a focus on electric mobility. It h as made acquisitions in the electric vehicle (EV) space. The company has planned capital investment of Rs. 700 crore over 10 years in its upcoming plant in T.N., said MD and Group CEO , Nagesh Basavanhalli . Excerpts :  .  How are you transforming into a green-energy entity? We have a rich legacy of over 162 years and change is not new for us. The past four years have been strategic in terms of enabling that move towards a transformation into a green-energy company. Our goal is to get closer to the consumer; hence this shift towards a more B2C and B2B approach. What is your strategy for the EV business? Our strategy is geared toward fostering inclusivity among Greaves’ primary business verticals. We hope to achieve this by leveraging enablers within the company, such as Greaves Financing, Greaves Retail, and Greaves Technology, to create synergies among our verticals, which include automotive, non-automotive and electric mobility. We [also] have over 7,000 retailers and 12,000 mechanics who are being reskilled in EV technology. Our primary goal is to create an entire ecosystem that caters to both B2B and B2C segments, serving as a one-stop shop for EV needs ranging from spare parts to periodic maintenance, multi-brand EV products, and aftermarket solutions. What is the roadmap? We have made 3 strategic acquisitions in the EV domain — Ampere scooters, ELE rickshaws and MLR autos. The long-term plan is to retool for the future. Our Ranipet plant will be ready by this year-end. We are making a total capital investment of Rs. 700 crore over the next 10 years here. This plant will have a capacity to produce up to a million units. What are your plans for multi-brand EV retail? The notion of multi-brand electric vehicle store may be found all over the world, but it is a relatively recent phenomena in India. We are inspired by the response we have received for this format. Our goal is to be present not only in major metro centres, but also in emerging and small communities, with an emphasis on Generation Z and millennials. We’ve successfully started ‘AutoEVMart,’ our first multi-brand EV retail store in Bengaluru. How are you ensuring domestic sourcing? Battery cells are imported from outside India... Greaves is on a Make-in-India mission, with committed and planned resources, localised in accordance with the FAME II strategy, and continuing to cooperate with a large number of Indian suppliers and developing a still-evolving supplier ecosystem. One reason we chose Ranipet is, it is located in the Bangalore-Chennai corridor and regarded as an automotive belt; a large portion of our supply chain is located here. Who is buying EVs? Which region is fuelling demand? Thanks to FAME II and government policies of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi... [here] high demand is witnessed; in many cases demand is surpassing supply as due to the government subsidies, there has been a change in consumer behaviour. Bengaluru has been the EV capital, thus there has always been a demand there. We are also seeing first-time buyers like Gen Z, millennials, college students, retail consumers buying EVs. Increase in petrol prices, too, has been a factor for faster adoption of EVs. In B2B, people who [offer] shared rides and those transporting goods... have seen deliveries skyrocketing during [the pandemic].   We are seeing first-time buyers like Gen Z, millennials and college students opting for EVs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goal-is-to-create-ecosystem-for-evs-greaves-cotton-md/article36801618.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India generating meaningful views for YouTube Shorts’||YouTube Shorts, which was introduced a year ago to compete with Instagram Reels and TikTok, is generating 15 billion views globally on a daily basis with a ‘meaningful part’ coming from India, said Satya Raghavan, director, YouTube Content Partnerships, India. Shorts, which is still in the beta phase, was first unveiled in India last year, and was subsequently rolled out in other markets. “We have actually seen a new breed of creators who have come onto the platform right with the launch of Shorts,” Mr. Raghavan told The Hindu.  “And, in that process, a whole lot of existing creators have adapted as well. Shorts allows you to create a video on the fly. It has made creation very easy for a whole lot of people.” In the first step to build a monetisation model for ‘Shorts,’ where the firm does not run advertisements yet, YouTube had recently announced a $100 million fund distributed over 2021-2022, from which eligible creators can claim payments. Mr. Raghavan said for YouTube, the number of channels in India making Rs. 1 lakh and above in revenue had grown by more than 60% year-on-year, as of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-generating-meaningful-views-for-youtube-shorts/article36801620.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DoT amends licence norms to ease penalties||The DoT has amended licence norms to rationalise the interest rate for delayed payment of licence fees. The move is expected to ease the financial burden on the telecom sector and promote ease of doing business. The department will now charge 2% interest above the one-year marginal cost of lending rate (MCLR) of State Bank of India for delay in payment of licence fee or any other statutory dues and the interest will be compounded annually. Earlier, telecom firms were required to pay 4% interest above the one-year MCLR of SBI and the interest was compounded monthly.  The Department of Telecom (DoT) has also removed the licence clause under which telcos were charged a penalty equivalent to 50% of the short payment they made for licence fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-amends-licence-norms-to-ease-penalties/article36801615.ece
03 October 2021||CARRARA,||India calls the shots on first clear day of Pink ball Test||India dictated terms as Australia struggled to survive the difficult overs under lights and finish the third day of the Day-Night Test at 143 for four here on Saturday. Australia trailed by 234 runs after veteran seamer Jhulan Goswami (2/27) struck twice to leave the hosts at 63 for two at one stage. India declared its first innings at 377 for eight. Mithali Raj’s side was lucky the umpire gave Australia captain Meg Lanning (38) out despite an inside edge, bringing to an end her ominous stay in the middle. The lucky bowler was Pooja Vastrakar (2/31). After Tahlia McGrath (28) hit Pooja’s wide and short delivery straight to Smriti Mandhana at point to leave the hosts at 119 for four, Jhulan was brought back with two slips, a gully and a silly mid-off, but Ellyse Perry (27) and Ashleigh Gardner (13) stuck it out. Earlier, Deepti Sharma made a fine 66. Resuming at 276 for five, India scored 83 for the loss of Taniya and Pooja to reach 359 for seven at dinner. Deepti, who started the day on 12, got to her second Test fifty (148b, 5x4) with a sweep behind square. Ellyse Perry picked up her 300th international wicket when she had Pooja brilliantly caught by Mooney at gully. Perry thus became the only woman cricketer with 5,000 international runs and 300 wickets.  The pink ball, I found, moves initially but not as much as the red one once it gets older Pooja||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-calls-the-shots-on-first-clear-day-of-pink-ball-test/article36801344.ece
03 October 2021||LIMA,||India women bag skeet gold||The trio of Ganemat Sekhon, Raiza Dhillon and Areeba Khan won the women’s skeet team gold for India with a 6-0 victory over Italy in the Junior World Championship. The men’s skeet team of Rajveer Gill, Ayush Rudraraju and Abhay Singh Sekhon won the bronze behind Italy and USA. In mixed air pistol, Manu Bhaker and Sarabjot Singh topped the second stage of qualification with 386, one point ahead of Shikha Narwal and Naveen. The Indian team of Atmika Gupta and Rajpreet Singh will face USA for gold. Sarabjot Singh, Naveen and Shiva Narwal were facing Belarus for the gold in the air pistol team event. Similarly, Rhythm Sangwan, Manu and Shikha meet Belarus for the gold in junior women’s air pistol team event. In the junior women’s air rifle team event, Nisha Kanwar, Zeena Khitta and Atmika Gupta will meet Hungary for gold. Dhanush Srikanth, Rajpreet Singh and Paarth Makhija will cross swords with USA for gold in the junior men’s rifle team event.  The results: Skeet team: Juniors, men: 1. Italy 6 (488); 2. USA 4 (487); 3. India (Rajveer Gill, Ayush Rudraraju, Abhay Singh Sekhon) 6 (453); 4. Turkey 0 (449).   Women: 1. India (Areeba Khan, Raiza Dhillon, Ganemat Sekhon) 6 (457); 2. Italy 0 (460); 3. Germany 6 (411); 4. Slovakia 4 (427) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-bag-skeet-gold/article36801630.ece
03 October 2021||KOLKATA,||Will be playing a style which will bring results: Stimac||A couple of days before India is scheduled to start its SAFF Championship campaign against Bangladesh, head coach Igor Stimac hoped that the team will be able to play with confidence and shed the “nervousness” that affected its recent performances. “I just hope that it just doesn’t happen like in the recent games where we had to change three or four players after first 45 minutes when we were not happy with their performance. We need to understand that from the very first second we need to start in disciplined and organised manner. We have to show maximum aggressiveness both with the ball and after losing the ball,” Stimac said. Stimac said the team will play without fear. “We are having short practice sessions to reduce the risk of injury and are relying on the understanding that the players know each other very well and are also aware of what we expect of them. So, I am confident about the tournament,” said Stimac. “We will be playing a style which will bring us results. We don’t know what each game will bring to us on the plate. We will adapt to everything that is thrown at us,” the coach said referring to the two matches played on the inaugural day (October 1). Bangladesh beat Sri Lanka by a solitary goal in the other match and now has three points to its credit. Indian captain Sunil Chhetri said: “The mood in the camp is upbeat. There is a lot of familiarity in the squad. The balance of the team is quite good and everyone in the squad is looking to give out his best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-be-playing-a-style-which-will-bring-results-stimac/article36801744.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Mohd. Rafiq claims a double||Bengaluru’s Mohd. Rafiq dominated the opening day’s proceedings in the second round of the MMSC-FMSCI National motorcycle drag racing championships at the MMRT here on Saturday, claiming a double while local challenger Soundari Sindy topped the girls’ category. Rafiq was in imperious form as he won in both 2-Stroke 165cc and 130cc categories comfortably. After a disappointing practice run, he clocked 12.761 seconds in the final run of the 165cc class, ahead of Chennai’s Prashanth (12.817) and Aiyaz Rem (12.969). Earlier, Rafiq took the honours in the 130cc category with 12.962, followed by two others from Bengaluru, Touheed (13.438) and G. Abdul (13.513). Three-way battle Sindy emerged triumphant in a three-way battle in the girls category (4-stroke 165cc) as she overcame fellow-Chennai competitors Lani Zena Fernandez and Nivetha Jessica.  The results:   2-Stroke (up to 165cc): 1. Mohd. Rafiq (Bengaluru) 12.761; 2. Prashanth (Chennai) 12.817; 3. Aiyaz Rem (12.969). Up to 130cc: 1. Mohd. Rafiq (12.962); 2. Touheed (Bengaluru) 13.438; 3. G. Abdul (Bengaluru) 13.513.   Girls (4-stroke, up to 165cc): 1. Soundari Sindy (Chennai) 16.462; 2. Lani Zena Fernandez (Chennai) 16.522; 3. Nivetha Jessica (Chennai) 17.291 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rafiq-claims-a-double/article36801628.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaiswal and Dube keep Royals in the hunt||Yashasvi Jaiswal (50) and Shivam Dube (64 n.o.) clobbered the Chennai Super Kings bowlers with brilliant half-centuries to keep Rajasthan Royals alive with a six-wicket win in the Indian Premier League at Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Chasing 190, Jaiswal and Dube’s display of brute power-hitting left the CSK bowlers nowhere to hide as Royals romped home with 15 balls to spare. Maiden ton by Ruturaj The duo’s fireworks overshadowed a fine maiden IPL century by Ruturaj Gaikwad (101 n.o., 60b, 9x4, 5x6) earlier in the day that helped CSK to what seemed like a formidable total of 189 for four after being asked to bat first. Jaiswal made full use of an early reprieve — he was dropped on 12 by Ambati Rayudu. The stylish left-handed opener went after Josh Hazlewood slamming him for three boundaries in his first over. In the fifth over, Jaiswal again launched into the Australian, with two sixes over mid-wicket followed by a four and another six down the ground to bring up his fifty off just 19 balls. Jaiswal and fellow opener Evin Lewis powered Royals to 75 in just five overs. Clean striking After the fall of the openers in quick succession, Dube ensured Royals stayed on course as he put his big frame to good use with some clean striking. The all-rounder struck down the ground against the spinners Ravindra Jadeja and Moeen Ali, smashing three sixes early on in his innings. Along with skipper Sanju Samson (28), Dube added 89 for the third wicket as the CSK bowlers struggled with the dew factor. Royals’ fifth win of the season helped it move to sixth in the table and stay in the hunt. Earlier, Ruturaj started with a crisp straight drive down the ground off the first ball of the innings and ended it with a slog over mid-wicket to bring up his ton off the last ball of the innings. In between, Ruturaj unleashed some breathtaking strokes, but his knock went in vain.   RR 160 for two  RR was 160 for two in 14 overs, thanks to Jaiswal’s 21-ball 50 and Dubey’s unbeaten 50 (31b)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruturaj-ton-powers-csk-to-189/article36801346.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Shreyas, Ashwin take DC over the line||Shreyas Iyer held his nerve and R. Ashwin provided the much-needed support to help Delhi Capitals virtually seal a top-two finish and deal Mumbai Indians’ campaign a big blow in the IPL on Saturday. On a slow strip at Sharjah that continued to be nightmarish for batters, DC restricted the defending champion to 129 for eight. Despite the MI bowlers repeating their DC counterparts’ heroics, Shreyas (33 n.o., 33b, 2x4) and Ashwin (20 n.o., 21b, 1x6) registered the highest partnership of the match (unbroken 39 off 36s) to see their team home. Change of pace was the motto for pacers on a sultry afternoon. When Shimron Hetmyer joined a spree of batsmen to fall in the trap, top-edging Jasprit Bumrah to Rohit Sharma at covers, Delhi was in a spot of bother. With 37 required off 41 balls and six batters back in the hut, Shreyas hoped for Ashwin to hang in there with him. With the asking rate not too much of a bother, the duo played risk-free cricket, Shreyas exploiting every loose ball offered by Nathan Coulter-Nile and Bumrah. Ashwin fittingly finished the match off the first ball of the last over, a slog sweep off left-arm spinner Krunal Pandya that sailed over the fence for his first boundary.  While Avesh Khan’s pace turned out to be too hot to handle for MI at the start and the death, Anrich Nortje’s back-of-the-hand slower balls had the high-profile batting line-up bambzoozled. Axar Patel’s spin did the trick in the middle overs as he dismissed Quinton de Kock, Suryakumar Yadav and Saurabh Tiwary to expose the lower middle-order to the pacers yet again. Had it not been for Jayant Yadav, who replaced Rahul Chahar, and Krunal tonking a six each off Ashwin in the last over, MI would have struggled to set a target of 130. But Ashwin made up for his bowling with a courageous display with the bat to help Capitals continue their stupendous run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shreyas-and-ashwin-take-capitals-over-the-line/article36801353.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Upbeat Kohli’s RCB eyes playoffs berth||Royal Challengers Bangalore will look to secure its second successive berth in the IPL playoffs when it meets Punjab Kings at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Sunday. RCB (14 points) is coming off two convincing wins, against Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals, kindling hopes of a maiden IPL title in Virat Kohli’s last season as skipper. Central to this is Glenn Maxwell’s inspired form that has fetched back-to-back fifties. With A.B. de Villiers yet to fire, the possibilities seem immense for RCB. Harshal Patel’s league-leading 26 wickets and Yuzvendra Chahal’s wily wrist spin have ensured that RCB remains well-rounded. PBKS, on the other hand, has blown hot and cold. But Friday’s five-wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders should help, for the K.L Rahul-led outfit (10 points) found a way to end on the right side of a capricious encounter and remain in the race for a playoffs spot. However, Nicholas Pooran’s form will be a worry with the Caribbean big-hitter totalling just 22 runs in the last three matches. But Shahrukh Khan, playing his first match of the second leg, showed glimpses of his bona fide ability as a T20 finisher with a nine-ball 22 against KKR. Arshdeep Singh (16 wickets) and Mohammad Shami (15 wickets) lead a bowling attack that continues to be potent. This being an afternoon match, heat is set to be more of a factor, especially for the side fielding first. Sharjah has thus far been a low-scoring venue, making the contest all the more interesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upbeat-kohlis-rcb-eyes-playoffs-berth/article36801354.ece
03 October 2021||LONDON,||Chelsea on top||Late goals by Timo Werner and Ben Chilwell sent Chelsea to the top of the Premier League after a 3-1 win over 10-man Southampton on Saturday.  Important results:   Premier League: Manchester United 1 (Martial 43) drew with Everton 1 (Townsend 65); Chelsea 3 (Chalobah 9, Werner 84, Chilwell 89) bt Southampton 1 (Ward-Prowse 61-pen).   LaLiga: Osasuna 1 (Sanchez 90+1) bt Rayo Vallecano 0; Real Mallorca 1 (Baba 74) bt Levante 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 2 (Guerreiro 10-pen, Brandt 51) bt Augsburg 1 (Zeqiri 35); VfL Wolfsburg 1 (Waldschmidt 24) lost to Borussia Moenchengladbach 3 (Embolo 5, Hofmann 7, Scally 90+5); VfB Stuttgart 3 (Kempf 18, Mavropanos 60, Massimo 81) bt Hoffenheim 1 (Bruun Larsen 84); Hertha Berlin 1 (Piatek 70) SC Freiburg 2 (Lienhart 17, Petersen 78) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-on-top/article36801349.ece
03 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Sakthi makes a splash||Sakthi Balakrishnan of ANSA Dubai stole the show, winning five gold medals — women’s 200m butterfly, 200m freestyle, 400m freestyle, 400m individual medley and 800m freestyle events — in the State aquatics championships here on Saturday.  The results (winners only):   Men, 50m backstroke: Vinayak Vijay (SDAT Velachery) 26.89; 100m breaststroke: S. Dhanush (TSPA Chennai) 01:04.64; 100m backstroke: Benediction Rohit (TDSAT Tirunelveli) 01:00.57; 200m butterfly: Ben Hannal (SDAT Velachery) 02:20.14; 400m freestyle: Sarvepalli Krishna Pranav (ORCA) 04:28.95; 800m freestyle: Sarvepalli Krishna Pranav (ORCA) 09:22.85.   Women: 50m backstroke: Madhumitha Sriram (SG Swim School) 33.50; 100m breaststroke: Sapthavarshini (SDAT Dolphin) 01:26.81; 100m backstroke: Madhumitha Sriram (SG Swim School) 01:12.34; 200m butterfly: Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 02:30.64; 200m freestyle: Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 02:14.67; 400m freestyle: Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 04:46.11; 400m individual medley: Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 05:26.32; 800m freestyle: Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 09:40.96 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sakthi-makes-a-splash/article36801667.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Deepanshu shines||Deepanshu Phore (62 and 2/23) helped Gyanti Academy beat M-10 Academy by 17 runs in the Swasthik Cup.  The scores: Gyanti Academy 256 in 39.5 overs (Deepanshu Phore 62, Anurag Sanjay 44, Rishabh Manchanda 3/41) bt M-10 Academy 239 in 39.4 overs (Akshay Saini 75, Arvind Verma 3/29) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepanshu-shines/article36801740.ece
03 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Madhav Mantri centenary to be celebrated by MCA||To honour former Mumbai captain and Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) president Madhav Mantri, the MCA apex council has decided to organise a Madhav Mantri Centerary Tournament and a function to mark the late stalwart’s centenary year. Mantri died aged 92 in May 2014. The apex council, during its marathon meeting on Saturday, finalised a memorial league tournament from Divisions C to G. While the lower divisions will compete in the Mantri memorial tournament, the higher division teams will vie for the honours in the Talim Shield one-day tournament from Oct. 9. The Talim Shield will kickstart the local season which was delayed due to the pandemic. It will also mean that the Kanga League, deferred due to the COVID-19 restrictions, is all but cancelled for the second season in succession. The proposed Mantri centenary, to be held on Oct. 29, will have legendary batsman G.R. Viswanath as the guest of honour in the presence of former MCA chief Sharad Pawar. The function will also witness handing over the hospitality box to former India captain Sunil Gavaskar, Mantri’s nephew and unveiling the Dilip Vengsarkar North Stand at the Wankhede Stadium as a tribute to Vengsarkar’s contribution to Mumbai cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhav-mantri-centenary-to-be-celebrated-by-mca/article36801906.ece
03 October 2021||KOLKATA,||Home support gives Md. Sporting the edge||Local favourite Mohammedan Sporting will be banking on the vociferous support of its partisan supporters when it takes on the Indian Super League giant FC Goa in the final of the 130th Durand Cup football under lights at the Salt Lake Stadium on Sunday. Mohammedan Sporting, the first Indian club team to win the title in 1940, has been on fine form since the group league stage winning five and losing just once. Sporting, which regained the crown in 2013, will be drawing inspiration from history and home advantage to upstage the notion of FC Goa’s invincibility. Sporting will be hoping that the names like Marcus Joseph, Brandon Vanlalremdika and Nikola Stojanovic retain the form that helped the team reach the final. FC Goa, the winner of the league winner’s shield in 2019-20, is a better side on paper with superior foreigners and Indian recruits. But the Gaurs will be missing the Indian players like Brandon Fernandez, Glan Martins and Sertion Fernandez, who are currently in Maldives on national duty. In that situation youngsters like Muhammed Nemil , Devendra Murgaokar and seasoned Spaniard Edu Bedia will be playing a key role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/md-sporting-has-the-edge/article36801742.ece
03 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||Miracle wins Golden Jubilee Deccan Derby in record time||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s unconquered filly Miracle, piloted by jockey P.S. Chouhan, won the Golden Jubilee Deccan Derby (Gr.1) in a record time of 2m 3. 68s, the prestigious event of Hyderabad Monsoon races here on Saturday (Oct. 2). The winner is owned by Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Chouhan confidently kept Miracle at sixth position in the early part of the race, later she was improved to fourth at 800m, as they were homeward-bound this Multidimensional filly sailed away stylishly to score a very easy victory over her rivals and broke the course record.  1. SMT. TEEGALA SULOCHANA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): BISATE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, N R I Valley (Akshay Kumar) 2, Balius (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Staridar (Abhay Singh) 4. Not run: Ashwa Yashobali. 1-1/4, 10-3/4 and 3/4. 1m 50. 98s. Rs. 12 (w), 10, 11 and 20 (p). SHP: 22, THP: 44, SHW: 10 and 14, FP: 36, Q: 24, Tanala: 200. Favourite: Bisate. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Company Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  Note: Lombardy (S. Zervan up) planted in the starting stalls and did not participate in the race.  2. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I), (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): TRUMP STAR (Deepak Singh) 1, Amyra (Neeraj) 2, Nearest (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Flamingo Fame (Santosh Raj) 4. Not run: Castlerock. 2-1/4, 1/2 and 3. 1m 12. 96s. Rs. 18 (w), 13, 12 and 68 (p). SHP: 28, THP: 150, SHW: 11 and 11, FP: 58, Q: 36, Tanala: 1,067. Favourite: Trump Star. Owners: Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary, Mr. P. Ranga Raju, Mr. Prabhakar Chowdary Tripuraneni & Mr. Eswarchandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni. Trainer: D. Netto.  3. MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SCRAMJET (P. Trevor) 1, Watch My Stride (Akshay Kumar) 2, Mark My Day (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Southern Princess (Zervan) 4. Not run: All Time Legend. Nose, 3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 26. 52s. Rs. 16 (w), 10, 11 and 45 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 110, SHW: 10 and 14, FP: 37, Q: 19, Tanala: 426. Favourite: Scramjet. Owners: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  4. ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): COSMIC RUN (Kiran Naidu) 1, House Of Diamonds (Akshay Kumar) 2, N R I Elegance (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Xfinity (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 3/4, 1/2 and Nk. 1m 13. 07s. Rs. 39 (w), 14, 10 and 34 (p). SHP: 27, THP: 96, SHW: 17 and 15 (p). FP: 198, Q: 70, Tanala: 2,556. Favourite: House Of Diamonds. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders Farm Private Limited & Mr. Teegala Vijender Reddy. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  5. TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I): ASHWA BRAVO (Ashad Asbar) 1, Smashing Blue (Akshay Kumar) 2, Victory Parade (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Corfe Castle (Gaurav Singh) 4. 3/4 , 1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m 24. 79s. Rs. 14 (w), 11, 13 and 11 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 28, SHW: 10 and 28 (p). FP: 51, Q: 42, Tanala: 133. Favourite: Ashwa Bravo. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Private Limited, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Z. Poonawalla & Mr. Ravinder Pal Singh Chauhan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  6. MYSORE RACE CLUB CUP (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PAINTED APACHE (P. Trevor) 1, Super Angel (Abhay Singh) 2, Zamazenta (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Dillon (B. Nikhil) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and 2. 1m 54. 09s. Rs. 22 (w), 11, 20 and 12 (p). SHP: 55, THP: 61, SHW: 18 and 31, FP: 223, Q: 132, Tanala: 368. Favourite: Painted Apache. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  7. BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SOLOIST (Akshay Kumar) 1, Win Vision (Santosh Raj) 2, General Atlantic (B. Nikhil) 3 and Moonlight Ruby (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 1/2 , 3-3/4 and Nk. 1m 26. 38s. Rs. 19 (w), 14, 26 and 26 (p). SHP: 83, THP: 81, SHW: 14 and 56 (p). FP: 239, Q: 194, Tanala: 2,334. Favourite: Soloist. Owners: Mr. Gurpal Singh, Mr. N.P. Sharma & Mr. Alluri Ajay Kumar. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  8. GOLDEN JUBILEE DECCAN DERBY (Gr. 1), (2,000m) (Terms), 3-y-o only:   MIRACLE (Multidimensional-Khalila) (P.S. Chouhan) 1,  Zuccarelli (Western Aristocrat-Circle Of Bliss) (Neeraj) 2, Southern Dynasty (Multidimensional-Set Aside) (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Aries (Corporate Jungle-Olympic Skater) (Bhawani) 4. 5-1/4, 2-3/4 and 2-3/4. 2m 3. 68s. (record time). Rs. 12 (w), 12, 16 and 81 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 171, SHW: 10 and 48, FP: 45, Q: 48, Tanala: 1,120. Favourite: Miracle. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  9. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: BEAUTY ON PARADE (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Blissful (Nakhat Singh) 2, Four One Four (Deepak Singh) 3 and Star Babe (Akshay Kumar) 4. 2, 1 and 1/2. 1m 13. 72s. Rs. 129 (w), 33, 15 and 39 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 83, SHW: 219 and 24, FP: 950, Q: 418, Tanala: 8,810. Favourite: Star Babe. Owners: Mr. Prakash Babu, Mr. K. Rama Krishna & Mr. Shailendra Singh. Trainer: D. Netto. Jackpot (i): 70%: Rs. 989 (351 tkts.), 30%: 200 (741 tkts.). (ii): 70%: 2,768 (285 tkts.), 30%: 64 (5,252 tkts.). Treble: (i): 70 (561 tkts.), (ii): 497 (119 tkts.), (iii) 489: (215 tkts.). Mini jackpot (i): 561 (84 tkts.), (ii): 1,900 (104 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-wins-golden-jubilee-deccan-derby-in-record-time/article36801626.ece
03 October 2021||SITGES (SPAIN),||India finishes with silver||Favourite Russia stopped India 2-0 to regain the FIDE World women’s team chess title on Saturday. For India, the fourth seed, the silver is the first medal in this premier championship.  The results (final): Set 1: Russia bt India 2.5-1.5 (Aleksandra Goryachkina lost to D. Harika; Alexandra Kosteniuk bt R. Vaishali; Kateryna Lagno bt Bhakti Kulkarni; Alina Kashlinskaya drew with Mary Ann Gomes).   Set 2: India lost to Russia 1-3 (Harika drew with Goryachkina; Vaishali drew with Kosteniuk; Tania Sachdev lost to Lagno; Mary lost to Alina Kashlinskaya).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-leads-india-in-final/article36801342.ece
03 October 2021||JAMSHEDPUR,||Ram, Baby Devi excel||Ram Soren and M. Baby Devi finished at the top in men and women’s sections respectively after the individual ranking round of the Indian bow event on the opening day of the 40th NTPC National archery championships at the Tata Archery Academy here on Saturday. Soren, representing Mizoram, gathered a total of 666 points. He was followed by Jharkhand's Goldi Mishra and Manipur’s S. Robert Singh, who scored an identical 658. Manipur’s Baby Devi aggregated 637 to top the tally among women. Usha Devi of Jammu and Kashmir and Sunita Bhardwaj of Uttar Pradesh took the second and third spots with scores of 635 and 634 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ram-baby-devi-excel/article36801341.ece
03 October 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Namit and Devanshee are champions||Namit Bhatia and Devanshee Prabhu Desai won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Championship series under-14 tennis tournament at the Baidyanath Prasad Academy in Azadpur.  The results:   Under-14: Boys (final): Namit Bhatia bt Mayank Ujjainwal 6-1, 6-0; Semifinals: Namit bt Adhiwan Deshwal 6-1, 6-1; Mayank bt Raghav Popli 7-5, 6-3.   Girls (final): Devanshee Prabhu Desai bt Ela Pandey 6-2, 6-1; Semifinals: Ela bt Samaira Kohli 5-7, 6-3, 7-5; Devanshee bt Anandita Upadhyay 6-2, 3-6, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/namit-and-devanshee-are-champions/article36801741.ece
03 October 2021||Lisbon,||Jeevan and Purav win title||Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja clinched the doubles title in the €44,820 Challenger with a 7-6(5), 6-3 victory over Nuno Borges and Francisco Cabral on Saturday. It was the top seeds’ first Challenger title as a team. They collected 80 ATP points and €2,670. In the Challenger in Romania, eighth seed Sumit Nagal lost 6-4, 0-6, 6-0 to top seed Stefano Travaglia of Italy in the semifinals.   The results:   €44,820 Challenger, Lisbon, Portugal: Final: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Nuno Borges & Francisco Cabral (Por) 7-6(5), 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Sibiu, Romania: Semifinals: Stefano Travaglia (Ita) bt Sumit Nagal 6-4, 0-6, 6-0.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Semifinals: Honoka Kobayashi (Jpn) & Ma YeXin (Chn) bt Ginevra Peiretti (Ita) & Jennifer Luikham 6-1, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-and-purav-win-title/article36801627.ece
03 October 2021||OSLO,||Ravinder shines before fizzling out||Ravinder stunned defending champion Beka Lomtadze before being outclassed by American Daton Duain Fix in the 61kg quarterfinals even as three of his compatriots fizzled out in the qualification rounds of the World Championships, here on Saturday. However, Yash Tunir (74kg), Sandeep Mann (86kg) and Anirudh (125kg) could not get past the qualification rounds. Ravinder began with a technical superiority win over Korea’s Kim Sunggwon and then returned to shock 2019 World champion Lomtadze. But, Fix was too hot for Ravinder.  The results: 61kg: Ravinder lost to Daton Duain Fix; bt Beka Lomtadze; bt Kim Sunggwon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravinder-shines-before-fizzling-out/article36801907.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||KKR has everything to play for||A sprightly Kolkata Knight Riders will face a battered Sunrisers Hyderabad in Dubai on Sunday. KKR now needs to win both its remaining matches to stand a chance of reaching the playoffs. Its aggressive makeover has revived fortunes in the second leg. Venkatesh Iyer’s inclusion has provided the impetus in the PowerPlay. Dinesh Karthik’s evolution as a middle-order finisher has helped. Rahul Tripathi’s batting through the middle overs this season, where he strikes at 150, has been a plus. However, captain Eoin Morgan is yet to get into double-figures in the UAE leg. Sunil Narine and Varun Chakravarthy have looked as good as ever. But it is not clear if Andre Russell and Lockie Ferguson will be available. Their injuries have affected the team balance. Against Punjab Kings, Venkatesh was forced to play the role of a fifth bowler, which didn’t pay off. He was taken for 30 in just 2.3 overs. Meanwhile, Sunrisers were knocked out of playoff contention after losing to CSK. They lack a genuine T20 finisher with a strike rate and six-hitting frequency that would allow the top order to bat freely. Their middle order is youthful and promising but has buckled under pressure. This has forced captain Kane Williamson into the role of the aggressor when he is really at his best playing to his tempo. Opening with Jason Roy is a welcome move. Jason Holder’s all-round excellence has offered a silverlining. Rashid Khan has also been top notch so far this season, picking up 14 wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-riders-have-everything-to-play-for/article36801351.ece
03 October 2021||DOHA,||Three Indian pairs through||Three Indian pairs made it to the quarterfinals of the Asian table tennis championships here on Saturday.  The results: Men (first round): Harmeet Desai bt Ahmed Alawlaqi (Qat) 11-7, 11-6, 11-5; Manav Thakkar bt Fahed Almughanne (Qat) 13-11, 11-4, 11-5; Sanil Shetty bt Jaber Al-Balhan (Kuw) 11-6, 5-11, 11-6, 11-6.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Manav & Harmeet bt Naif Al Jadai & Al-Abbad Abdulaziz (KSA) 11-4, 11-9, 11-9; Sharath & Sathiyan bt Kirill Gerassimenko & Alan Kurmangatiev (Kaz) 11-9, 11-6, 9-11, 8-11, 11-7.   Women (second round): Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Bolor-Frdene Batmunkh (MGL) 11-6, 11-4, 11-4; Archana Kamath bt Elina Maharajan (Nep) 11-3, 11-2, 11-5; Ayhika Mukherjee bt Li Yu Jhen (Tpe) 11-5, 11-2, 11-5; Sreeja Akula bt Siti Aminah (Ina) 11-4, 11-7, 12-10.   Doubles: Sutirtha & Ayhika bt Chen Szu-Yu & Ali Yu-Jhun (Tpe) 11-9, 12-10, 8-11, 11-9; Doo Hoi Kem & Lee Ho Ching (HKG) bt Sreeja Akula & Archana Kamath 12-10, 11-7, 10-12, 15-13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-indian-pairs-through/article36801357.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Wright praises Rahul||Punjab Kings bowling coach Damien Wright credited captain K.L. Rahul for the side’s five-wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders in Dubai on Friday. Wright said Rahul’s knock was crucial in the chase. “His innings was super, we were quite attacking from the other end and K.L. played a real anchor role. I would have loved to see him there at the end, but his innings tonight was super,” said Wright at the post-match press conference. Wright also praised pacers Mohammed Shami and Arshdeep Singh. “It is purely down to the way they train and apply themselves. It’s been an area of our game that we have been strong at (death bowling) and their last two overs made the difference.”  KKR coach Brendon McCullum felt Andre Russell’s absence impacted the side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wright-praises-rahul/article36801350.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Good spells by Sneha and Chandasi||Sneha Jagadish (4/5) and Chandasi Krishnamurthy (4/4) shone as Karnataka whipped Mizoram by 10 wickets in the BCCI under-19 women’s one-day trophy at Jaipur.  The scores: Mizoram 28 in 20.3 overs (Sneha Jagadish 4/5, Chandasi Krishnamurthy 4/4) lost to Karnataka 29 for no loss in 6.2 overs .  Five-wkt. win for Karnataka Karnataka defeated Jammu & Kashmir by five wickets in the BCCI under-19 Vinoo Mankad Trophy at Indore.  The scores: Jammu & Kashmir 115 in 36.1 overs (Abdul Bari 30, Yuvraj Saini 26, Aneeshwar Gautam 3/16) lost to Karnataka 116/5 in 26.1 overs (E.J. Jasper 55, N.A. Chinmay 38, Yasir Rasheed 4/41) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-spells-by-sneha-and-chandasi/article36801621.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Tarun, Malishka champions||Tarun Korwar and K. Malishka won the boys’ and girls’ titles at the AITA Championship Series u-18 tournament at Ash Tennis Academy (Shamirpet). Tarun defeated N. Rithvik 1-6, 7-5, 6-2, while Malishka beat P. Nirali 6-0, 6-1.  The results: Boys: Final: Tarun Korwar bt N. Rithvik 1-6, 7-5, 6-2. Semifinals: Tarun bt Ch. Vibhu 7-6(4), 6-1; Rithvik bt V. Dhiraj Reddy 6-3, 6-3.   Doubles: Final: Yagnesh Pampari & G. Naishik Reddy bt Parth Malik & Aaradith Ravichandran 6-0, 4-6, [10-5].   Girls: Final: K. Malishka bt P. Nirali 6-0, 6-1. Semifinals: Malishka bt Apara Khandare 6-1, 6-1; Nirali bt Oman Yadav 2-6, 6-1, 6-4.   Doubles: Final: K. Tejasvi & Apara Khandare bt Oman Yadav & Hasini Yadav 6-2, 2-6, 11-9 .    Saints scored a 66-48 win over Secunderabad Club in the Hyderabad District Basketball Association annual league on Saturday. Abhishek (22) was Saints’ top-scorer and Vishnu (24) for Secunderabad. In another match, Loyola Academy notched up a 91-59 win over Sanathnagar Playground  The scores: YMCA Secunderabad 72 (Gali Sam 19, Varma 12) bt Supervek 41 (Satyadeep 17, Peter 11).   Saints 66 (Abhishek 22) bt Sec’bad Club 48 (Vishnu 24, Shree Dutt 14).   Loyola Academy 91 (Rahul 25, Nathan Abraham 18) bt Sanathnagar PG 59 (Nikhil 12, Shoaib 13); Victory PG 70 (Salman Khan 14, Mintu 12) bt Trinity Basketball Club 46 (Surya 14, Samriddh 12).    Vignesh Reddy (102) helped Hyderabad score a 67-run win over Assam in the BCCI Vinoo Mankad Trophy (under-19) one-day championship match at Ahmedabad on Saturday.  The scores: Group C: Hyderabad 291/6 in 50 overs (K. Krithik Reddy 40, Thakur Tilak Varma 81, Vignesh Reddy 102, Shashank Lokesh 33) bt Assam 224/9 (Parvej Musaraf 89, Rohan Hazarika 54, Rishith Reddy 3/5, M. Shashank 3/33).   Group D: At Hyderabad: Haryana 295/7 in 50 overs (Nishant Sindhu 44, Ahaan Poddar 84, Dinesh Bana 70, Arun Kumar 39, Mohit Shibu 3/50) bt Kerala 229/9 in 50 overs (Shoun Roger 58, Varun Nayanar 60, Nishant Sindhu 3/34).   Punjab 191 in 47.4 overs (Rushil Shrivastava 35, Uday Saharan 53, Satyam Baaliyan 3/25, Shashwat Dangwal 5/46) bt Uttarakhand 166 in 44.2 overs (Aarav Mahajan 32, Arush 32 n.o., Harshdeep Singh 3/44, Uday Saharan 3/30).   Baroda 118 in 39.3 overs (Yatharth Ghunchala 35, Bhoite 33) bt Bengal 98 in 23.1 overs (Priyanshu Moliya 5/29).    Hyderabad scored an eight-wicket win over Assam in the BCCI women’s (under-19) one-day cricket championship Elite Group match at Rajkot on Saturday.  The scores: Assam 42 in 19.1 overs (G. Trisha 4/1, M. Sakshi Rao 4/5) lost to Hyderabad 44/2 in 11.1 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tarun-malishka-champions/article36801814.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 08:09 IST,||Sudoku — October 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-1-2021/article36802051.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Limp in the leg, not in the spirit||A greater coucal without its elongated tail is as easy to process as Rapunzel without her flowing tress. It is the species’ greatest quiddity; and a significant “navigational” aid. As it hurries to safety on the ground, a greater coucal walks with a waddle — not as pronounced as in ducks, but striking nevertheless — that is accentuated by the obtrusively long tail. When it “walks” in the trees, its tail is the equivalent of a handstaff held by a 90-year-old with an unsteady gait. Birds in the cuculidae family develop an additional left foot when they clamber through tree branches. Just like a majority of its cousins, the greater coucal uses its tail as a balancing prop in this situation. Imagine a greater coucal without a tail. Also imagine its quality of life. On August 25, this writer did not have to muster his powers of imagination. On a bund of the Selaiyur lake, a greater coucal showed up without a tail. Gaped at, the bird would not take to wing, but trust its feet and bushes to keep itself scarce. Though a tail has its part in a bird’s aerial movements, its absence does not make it totally earth-bound. Beside the missing tail, the greater coucal had no visible sign of injury to the rest of its body. But this bird just would not tear itself from terra firma . Birds are soap opera-unfriendly. They do not crib about their misfortune, and when it is invisible, one can only speculate about it. When attacked by a predator, birds sometimes come unscathed, except for the tail feathers being ripped away. Tail feathers usually come off easily. Why this bird would be land-bound however remained a mystery. If it stubbornly persited in this behaviour, it could fall prey to any of the felines. There is a habitation not too far from the lake, and one of them might get the bird. When this writer visited the lake again on September 15, he did not expect to see the bird. But there is was, as earth-bound as ever, and its tail grown to the length of a golf tee. In all likelihood, it was longer than that. With the bird offering just glimpses of itself, through gaps in the foliage, it was difficult to have a proper measure of its return to normality. A point of interest was that the bird was crossing over from the side of civilisation to one of wilderness, crossing a kutcha road that hugs the lake bund. A resident revealed that this bird was being seen around the place for three to four weeks, and had likely been attacked by a cat. It would show up in the dense thickets around houses. During this encounter, one noticed that when the bird hurred its steps, it could not keep a limp from getting noticed. By frequenting spaces where it can run into felines, the bird was sailing close to the wind. Surely, the next time around, there may not be a howdy with the greater coucal. However, the greater coucal made the writer eat his words as he found it swishing through the bushes, during a visit on September 28, its tail grown noticeably long, and the limp still intact. The bird would however still be earth-bound. From the look of it, it has worked out its own adaptation, making the most of what it could do, rising above the limitations of what is probably a permanently injured leg, and may be, other damage that is not seen.  (Field Notes is a column about the resident and migratory birds of Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/limp-in-the-leg-not-in-the-spirit/article36801549.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Is Chennai friendly to women cyclists?||On September 27, cyclist Aradana M met with a freak accident at Semmancherry on Old Mahabalipuram Road — officially, Rajiv Gandhi Salai — raising questions about the safety of cyclists on city roads. This accident was just two days removed from a night cyclothon organised by the Greater Chennai Corporation and Chennai Smart City Limited — on September 25 — to highlight another aspect of safety — to show how safe the city was for women. It was also aimed at getting more women to take up cycling. Aradana, as usual, was riding solo on Rajiv Gandhi Salai at around 27 kph when the front wheel of her cycle got entangled in a cable that was part of cable-laying work, throwing her rudely off the saddle. “My Scott Addict 20 toppled and I landed on my head,” says Aradana, and identifies the site of accident: A poorly-lit stretch near Satyabama University. The infrastructure work had not been barricaded and poor lighting on the stretch contributed to the accident. “I have a cat-eye light on my cycle that is pretty good,” she says, adding that her helmet was a life saver. Later, Aradana dragged herself to the side of the road and sought help from the person laying the cable to transport her bicycle home before she left in an ambulance. “I injured my lower back and elbow but I could gather enough strength to remove the cable obstructing the road as I did not want anybody else meeting with the same fate,” says Aradana, a resident of Perungudi. The state of roads is a major deterrent for people, particularly women, who want to taking up cycling. Many cyclists hitting OMR and ECR say cattle on the road is a major safety hazard. “A senior cyclist who was hit by a herd of cow on ECR has not yet recovered,” says Aradana. On road issues The challenges cyclists face on city road are hard to miss: Overflowing dustbins on the road make the area around them slippery; potholes; lack of street lights and dug-up roads. For women on long rides, there is also the lack of accessible and clean public toilets; and threat of harassment and discrimination. And, lack of a dedicated cycling lane is on top of all the woes. Due to these challenges, a majority of the women cyclists go only on group rides. “It is safer when you are in a group,” says Sujatha Dube, a member of Mongrels. But there are unexpected hurdles on the way even in a group ride. “For most of our rides, we map the route to double check if it is safe but on some stretches, there is the issue of phone-snatching to deal with,” says Sujatha. In 2019, the cycling group made a representation to the Police department about this issue they encountered on OMR. For Nithya Srivatsan, last week’s night ride was her first ever and she felt safe as all through the 20-km route, either volunteers or police personnel were stationed. The event has given me the confidence to explore the city in the night but I cannot expect such a reception every time, says Nithya, a member of WCCG. Grievance cell Bicycle Mayor of Chennai Felix John says the cycling infrastructure in the city is evolving and cyclists including women must not be feel discouraged by such incidents and should continue cycling. “We need more people to pedal to push for change,” says Felix. He says the recent night cyclothon was a great initiative to show that if various stakeholders come together then safety on the road can be enhanced. The lack of dedicated cycling lanes despite many promises has been disheartening but that is not the ultimate aim, says Felix. He has been mooting an idea to set up a grievance redressal system that could handle complaints by cyclists relating to problems faced on the road. It must have a representation from various departments. Felix states that last week’s event should be leveraged to work towards policies that would create an active mobility system, and addressing the question of safety would be a part of it.  For most of our rides, we map the route to double check if it is safe. On some stretches, there is the issue of phone-snatching to deal with||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/is-chennai-friendly-to-women-cyclists/article36801530.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand on dumpyard grows louder||Residents of Ambika Nagar in Madambakkam have been persistent in their demand to have a dumping ground at a burial-ground-cum-burning ghat relocated, but the pleas seem to be falling on deaf ears, going by what these residents have to say. Prakash Thirumani Aasuri of Madambakkam Residents’ Welfare Association underlines it as a 20-year-old issue, one that gets worse during the monsoon. “Groundwater has become contaminated on account of having this dumping ground,” says Prakash. “We have made many representations to the State Government, Madambakkam Town Panchayat and Chengalpattu district Collectorate to have the dumping ground relocated,” Aasuri reveals. He says that often, garbage is set on fire. The situation was apparently worse a decade ago, when the burial ground lacked boundary walls. Aasuri explains that the garbage would spill on to the road, affecting road users. Following a sustained campaign by residents, boundary walls were raised. “Yet the garbage falls along the road,” adds Aasuri. Drivers of conservancy trucks leave a trail of garbage along the road. “Of late, those running meat shops dump the leftovers outside the burial ground and people fling their garbage bags,” complains social activist V Seetharaman. Another resident B Krishnan says as the colony is situated close to the dumping ground, the stench is unbearable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/demand-on-dumpyard-grows-louder/article36801511.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Women at the deep end of ultra cycling||Last year, “pandemic bike boom” was a talking point on Reddit. Wikipedia added 2020 to the periods in history when the bicycle was “rediscovered”. The pandemic with its punctuation on fitness and social distancing was just the inflexion point the humble bicycle needed. During the lockdowns, closed gyms had left a void that cycles rolled in to fill. Raghu Vishal, current representative of Audax India Randonneurs, believes the “pandemic bicycling boom” would not stop with basic cycling, but spur many people, including women, towards ultra cycling. Aarthi Lakshminarayanan, a senior randonneur at the city-based Madras Randonneurs, reports a spike in women randonneurs having a go at the coveted super randonneur title. “There must be 12 to 15 women randonneurs in Chennai,” elaboartes Aarthi. Qualifying as a super-randonneur is the height of ultra cycling, as it requires the rider to complete 200 km, 300 km, 400 km and 600 km brevets (as randonneurs call “rides”) in a randonneuring year (from November to October), relying on little outside of themselves, except of course the cycle. To encourage women to take up ultra cycling, the various chapters of Audux India Randonneurs — recognised and empowered by the international governing body Audax Club Parisien to oversee all Brevets de Randonneurs Mondiaux (BRMs) and Audax events in India — are said to have chalked up their own programmes. To illustrate, Raghu names clubs across the country that have offered women participants rebates on the entry fee for brevets. Reduced fee would help, however women struggle to cut through two firewalls — considerations of personal safety and family. A majority of women randonneurs are content with being just a randonneur — which comes with completion of a 200 km brevet — and baulk at the notion of having to do overnight rides, unavoidable in the 600 and 400 km brevets. Divya Iyer, one of the new entrants to randonneuring and is preparing to go on a 600 km brevet next week, points out that a 400 km would require a rider to spend a night on the road cycling; and a 600km, two nights. That would raise questions of safety and time. Aarthi places the issue in perspective: While men also have trouble balancing a demanding sport of this kind and other commitments, women are harder hit as they are seen as “caregivers”. A woman’s absence from home for four days on account of a 600 km brevet is more keenly felt, Aarthi underlines. Safety vehicle The safety question is indirectly addressed by a policy introduced by Audax India Randonneurs with Audax Club Parisien’s permission. Raghu explains: “The erstwhile national representative of Audax India Randonners, Ms. Divya Tate, had made a special request to Audax Club Parisien to permit for India the concept of a safety vehicle which would not be following the rider at all times, but leapfrog ahead of the rider to keep an eye on them. The rider is not permitted to take any supplies from the vehicle nor any kind of physical support from it. This provision is not limited to women to ensure their safety, but has rather been put in place because certain routes in the country are isolated and lack emergency services, and certain others that are not safe — we have Gwalior club operating close to the Morena district where dacoity rears its head often. Rourkela club faces a challenge when they organise a 600 km, as they have to pass through territories that are dominated by naxals. So, this exception has been made for India for this purpose. The facility is not restricted to women, but women’s safety is one aspect of the multiple reasons for which the safety vehicle concept has been permitted on overnight BRMs and in unsafe sections.” He continues: “It is entirely at the discretion of the organiser to extend that facility to the rider. If it is just a daytime BRM, 200 km, and there is no safety issue on that route, and there are sufficient marshals and volunteers on that day, the organisers may not be inclined to extend it to any of the riders.” The option of a safety vehicle stays with you as a comforting thought, states Aarthi, who has exercised it a couple of times. She says: “On a couple of occasions when I found myself riding alone, I had my safety car meet me at the control points or follow me at a distance. They cannot provide any support; they are just there for safety purpose.” Raghu spells out the scope of the safety vehicle: “The safety vehicle is often driven by the rider’s relative, and we brief them on what they can do and what they cannot. What they cannot do is provide any kind of support to the rider. What they can do is leapfrog ahead of the rider every few kilometres and keep an eye on them as they cross their location and go to the next point along the route. They have to maintain a minimum distance specified in the policy; the rule very specifically even mentions that the rider is not supposed to ride within the headlights of the car either. The rider has to have their own cycle lights — tail-lights and front lights. These checks are carried out before the ride is flagged off.” Randonneuring gurus would recommend that the safety vehicle be kept as the last resort. The presence of fellow riders is the first line of safety. “If there are couple of women riding, they could ride with the group, which is good. If they cannot, they can then have their safety vehicle,” says Aarthi. What makes fell at ease about the upcoming 600 km brevet is what she had experienced during the 400 km brevet ( Chennai-Jamunamarathur-Chennai route via Vandavasi). “When I did the 400 km, it was raining continuously for seven hours and we had blinkers in our cycles. The lights in my cycle had conked out due to the downpour. And on top of that, dogs were chasing us,” recalls Divya, and what shines through the memory of that difficult ride is how the male cyclists made sure they were around so that the women riders did not come to any harm.  On a couple of occasions when I found myself riding alone, I had my safety car meet me at the control points or follow me from a distance. They cannot provide any support; they are just there for safety purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/women-at-the-deep-end-of-ultra-cycling/article36801534.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanganallur resident captures rare chirps||Subramanian Sankar who sees himself as a lifelong student of bird calls, recently resolved what has been a head-scratcher of a question for chirrup-loving citizen birders in India. It is about having the curlew sandpiper “authentically” on record. Recording a curlew sandpiper’s call that is entirely a curlew sandpiper’s has been a challenge, one acknowledged by Salim Ali. Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Vol. II) by Salim Ali and Sidney Dillon Ripley carries a telling remark: “Not authentically recorded in India, the fact of its keeping in mixed flocks making it difficult to isolate the calls of the various species.” Recently, the eBird platform got off the mark in terms of having a validated curlew sandpiper call recording from India. “There must be other recordings of the curlew sandpiper from its wintering grounds in India, but this is the first recording of the species’ call on eBird from India,” observes Subramanian (‘Subbu’ in citizen-science birding circles). A Nanganallur resident, Subbu had joined two others on an birding expedition to the coastal sections of Nagapattinam. Almost always hearing a bird before sighting it, he was naturally expected to return from the exercise with a rich harvest of bird calls. A clearly recorded vocalisation of a curlew sandpiper was however among the least expected, if not unexpected. He has uploaded four recordings, two outstripping the one-minute mark, and the other two staying under 20 seconds. He remarks that the shortest of the sound capsules — one lasting just five seconds — has the call of a flustered curlew sandpiper taking to wing. “There were around 40 curlew sandpipers. There was a good number of little stints as well. Dispersed, the curlew sandpipers were feeding actively with little stints and lesser sand plovers. At a distance, there was also a flock of phalaropes,” he describes the scene from the salt pans where the sighting happened. “It is extremely hard to record calls of birds that are in their wintering grounds. They are usually silent and call rarely, and when they do, the call would mostly be a chirp, and they may all sound similar. You have to look at the spectogram to see how different they are.” On how vocalisations can get mixed up, he observes that “once in one ‘call’, I found twelve species. They had all been vocalising together.” Near threatened The curlew sandpiper is a bird in peril, its numbers causing brows to wrinkle with befuddlement and concern. Ornithologist V Santharam remarks that to get to the bottom of their reduced presence, wide-ranging factors might have to be studied. From the experience of watching and studying the bird at Adyar Estuary, Pulicat and Point Calimere, among other coastal sections, Santharam observes: “I remember it as a fairly common bird — it used to be seen at the Adyar estuary, which is where I first saw it. It used to be found in most of the coastal waterbodies. There were some years when the birds used to be common; and some other years when their numbers would be low. There would be fluctations that would have had something to do with their breeding grounds or passage, because they travel a long distance. There could have been triggers at crucial stopover wetlands. At stopover wetlands, they would refuel and continue their onward migratory journey. When such wetlands are lost, their numbers may be low when they reach their wintering grounds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nanganallur-resident-captures-rare-chirps/article36801513.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Students turn teachers for Daan Utsav||Sisters Anvi Shah and Anya Shah least expected that an art activity remembered from Class VII would break the monotony resulting from the pandemic. Under their brand “Anvy” (a name derived from letters in both their names, and one that suggests the idea of positivity, in Sanskrit), the twins run a tie-and-dye workshop for unprivileged children, for the Sethu Foundation as part of Twinklers. Twinklers is an initiative by Ladies Circle MSLC 133 being run for Daan Utsav. Last year, during the lockdown, the twins rediscovered tie-and-dye art they had learnt in school, and had tried it out on napkins and on their father’s t-shirts. “The first couple of times we tried it, the results were horrible. We would have spoiled five tees as either the tying was not done properly or the pattern was not right,” say the Class IX students of Sishya. After having mastered the art by trial and error, they conducted a workshop for the children at their street in Kilpauk. It filled them with the confidence to start Anvy which has sold more than 250 tie-and-dye t-shirts in the last one year. To be launched on October 6, the workshop is expected to run for two to three weeks. The sisters will be launching a website soon and adding new products under the brand. Sethu Lakshmi, C J managing director, Sethu Foundation, says 60 children in the age group of eight to 12 years will be part of the tie-and-dye workshop. “They are part of our project “Chetna for children” where various creative classes are being conducted on a regular basis,” says Sethu. The plan is to get the children design 1000 t-shirts that will be put up for sale post-Deepavali and the proceeds from the sale would go towards supporting the Foundation. “Anyone can visit our centre at Teynampet when the workshops are happening to place their order or place an order through our Instagram page,” says Sethu, adding that the Foundation wants children to use this skill to improve the art and earn money through the process. Follow their Instagram handles: anvya.official and sethu_foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/students-turn-teachers-for-daan-utsav/article36801538.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hospital ties up with Rotary to offer heart surgeries to children||Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals, which has in the past provided free cardiac interventional procedures for more than 350 children from Tamil Nadu, is collaborating with Rotary Club of Madras Temple City for their new project ‘Healing Little Hearts’. Dr. Prem Sekar R, Consultant Paediatric Cardiology, said birth defects of the heart are most common and contribute significantly to the infant mortality rate. “Early identification and diagnosis enables appropriate treatment and allows these children to have a normal and healthy childhood. A majority of these defects are simple holes in the heart that are now closed using special devices by taking the vascular route. As these procedures minimise hospitalisation, the total cost is reduced to one third of an open-heart surgery,” said Dr Prem Sekar. With the support of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Health Scheme, treatment is provided free of cost. Sholinganallur MLA Aravind Ramesh and District Governor of Rotary J Sridhar were among those who took part in an event held at the hospital to commemorate World Heart Day. For details, visit www.drkmh.com or call 044-66 300 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hospital-ties-up-with-rotary-to-offer-heart-surgeries-to-children/article36801545.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Curbs placed on the use of Ganapathypuram subway||Following chain-snatching incidents at the subway near MES Road in Ganapathypuram, East Tambaram, the S-11 Tambaram Police has restricted the public from using the pedestrian subway by barricading its entrance on GST Road. The underpass, which connects GST Road in West Tambaram and Velachery Main Road in East Tambaram, is closed for the past few weeks. After sunset, many pedestrains would avoid taking the subway as it would have been taken over by tipplers around that hour, says a police personnel attached to S-11 Tambaram Police Station. As a result, pedestrians cross the railway tracks or use the nearby vehicular subway. Some pedestrians use the foot-over-bridge on the premises of Tambaram railway station that connect East Tambaram and West Tambaram. The subway, which comes under the maintenance of Southern Railway, was thrown open to the public in February 2019. Arun Kumar Bhattacharjee, secretary, MES Road Ganapathypuram Welfare Association, East Tambaram, says, “A day after the subway was inaugurated, anti-social elements had damaged its lights. Since then, we have been requesting the Southern Railway to reinstall the lights but nothing has been done so far. Further it was being misused as an open toilet. Water drips through the cracked ceiling and remains stagnant on the floor. The tiles on the walls are broken. Necessary steps to improve the facility have to be taken at the earliest.”  Pedestrians cross the railway tracks or use the nearby vehicular subway||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/curbs-placed-on-the-use-of-ganapathypuram-subway/article36801527.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||RWA wants lake freed of encroachments||Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents Association in Chitlapakkam met the Chengalpattu District Collector, A. R. Rahul Nadh, on August 30 and submitted a representation seeking the removal of encroachments along the Sembakkam lake. The next day, the Revenue Divisional Officer inspected the lake and assured the residents that the necessary steps would be taken to address the issue. A month has gone by, but nothing has changed, says M Ravi, secretary, Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents Association. For more than 20 years, the Association has been pursuing this issue with the government officials and elected representatives but of no avail, adds Ravi. “The encroachments include a temple and a wall of an educational institution. The Association along with Sembakkam Exnora filed a case with the National Green Tribunal, Southern Bench, in 2012. A few years ago, the NGT passed an order to have the encroachments removed. However, the court’s order has not been honoured till date,” says Ravi. The Association also wants the boundaries of the lake demarcated as per the Field Measurement Book. “A decade ago, encroachers were given notices to vacate their houses on the lake area. However, the eviction drive did not happen for reasons unknown to us. Today, the encroachers have polluted the lake by dumping garbage and discharging sewage into the waterbody. There is no point in restoring the lake unless steps are taken to remove the encroachments,” says Ravi. Further, the Association is also seeking removal of a transformer and three electrical poles near the lake as they are also posing a hindrance to the restoration work.  A decade ago, encroachers were given notices to vacate their houses on the lake area||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwa-wants-lake-freed-of-encroachments/article36801541.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Underpass at Nanganallur in disrepair||The road of Thillai Ganga Nagar underpass at Nanganallur is in a bad shape. Around two years ago, the State Highways Department relaid it. However, potholes are found in the pedestrian-cum-vehicular subway. To add to the woes of the public, water drips from the cracked walls of the subway. Moreover, there are no speed-breakers and therefore motorists drive at a break-neck speed. The pedestrian passage is misused by tipplers to consume alcohol and some relieve themselves here. Therefore, pedestrians risk themselves by walking on the carriageway. R. Vidhya is a resident of Nanganallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/underpass-at-nanganallur-in-disrepair/article36801519.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Electricity poles occupy road margins’||Damaged electricity poles at Muthulakshmi Nagar in Chitlapakkam that were replaced two years ago, are far from gone. The old discarded electricty poles occupy the margins of Muthulakshmi Street, Advocate Janakiraman Street, Ashtalakshmi Street, Pamban Swamigal Street and Veeravanchi Street. I request the authorities concerned to do the needful at the earliest. L. Sundararaman is the president of Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/electricity-poles-occupy-road-margins/article36801523.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Varadharajan Street in a battered state||Following completion of water pipe-laying work at Varadharajan Street in Nehru Nagar, Chromepet in the second week of September, the road was not relaid properly. This street is frequented by lorries and trucks. Though the issue has been taken up with the authorities concerned, no remedial action is in sight. The road should be relaid without much delay to prevent any accident. K Devanathan is a resident of Chromepet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/varadharajan-street-in-a-battered-state/article36801515.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Road yet to be restored after water work||A month ago, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage Board cut a trench on a section of Tambaram-Velachery Main Road near Easwari Nagar junction, opposite ICICI Bank. After laying drainage pipes, the trench was closed and the road was levelled with excavated soil. Motorists have to endure a bumpy ride, and the recent rains have aggravated the problem. Narrow, this section is also accident-prone. Over a year ago, a mother and daughter on a two-wheeler died on the spot in a gruesome accident. I request the Highways Department to attend to the issue at the earliest and prevent any other untoward incident. R V Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-yet-to-be-restored-after-water-work/article36801517.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Desilting of Moovarasampet lake sought||I request the Water Resources Department to desilt and deepen Moovarasampet lake, and also create a walkway. Revetment walls should be raised to prevent breaches along the bunds. The lake is the main groundwater source for the residents of Madipakkam, Pallavaram, Moovarasampet, Tirusulam and nearby areas. I hope the authorities concerned do the needful. G. P. Babu is the secretary of Federation of Moovarasampet Welfare Associations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/desilting-of-moovarasampet-lake-sought/article36801521.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||College students raise funds for cleft surgeries||Students of Rotaract Club of SRM Easwari Engineering College partnered with NGO Smile Train, an organisation that supports free cleft surgeries for children, to raise funds for 50 cleft surgeries. Under ‘ARAM’, the club organised various fundraising events that had to do with theatre, stand-up comedy and music, in 2019 and 2020. In 2021, they organised a sequence of fundraisers to take the COVID-19 message to people, says a release. Trash-collection drives and sports events were a part of other fund-raising activities. As a part of the promotional event for ARAM 2021, an Instagram filter was created, which gained more than 70,000 impressions online, added the release. To celebrate their efforts, Smile Train India is conducting a ‘Virtual Townhall’ on the occasion of World Smile Day to appreciate the act of these students. ARAM was felicitated with the ‘best ongoing project’ award in the year 2019 and ‘Late Surjit Singh Sahney’ award in the year 2020 by the District Rotaract Council, RID – 3232, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/college-students-raise-funds-for-cleft-surgeries/article36801550.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Free camp for seniors||A three-day free medical camp for senior citizens that is being conducted as part of International Day of Older Persons, by Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium in association with Geri Care Hospitals, ends on October 3 (Sunday). According to a press release, geriatric specialists from the hospital will be available to answer queries on geriatric healthcare. The camp is on from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Phoenix MarketCity, Velachery Main Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-camp-for-seniors/article36801546.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Webinar on understanding oral cancer||Association of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons of India - Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Branch is organising a webinar on understanding oral cancer, on October 3 (from 11 a.m.). According to a press release, Dr Mathan Mohan, Dean, Karpaga Vinayaga Institute of Dental Sciences, and Dr Senthil Murugan, Professor, Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Saveetha Dental College & Hospital will be handling the session. It will be moderated by Dr. Jimson. S, Vice-Principal Research Head, Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Tagore Dental College & Hospital. For details, call 90800 78447.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/webinar-on-understanding-oral-cancer/article36801551.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Women cyclists hit OMR every Wednesday||Last year, a few months after the pandemic had set in, women cyclists from Chennai cutting across club affiliations started having a girls day out, mid-week. Wednesday stays taken. Called ‘Ladies’ Ride’, it revolves around a two-point agenda: Nurturing a community of women cyclists and growing it by drawing more women to cycling, as Aarthi Lakshminarayanan, a key member of this informal group, puts it. She volunteers additional information, “Every Wednesday, eight to 12 of us would ride down Old Mahabalipuram Road covering around 50 km and end it with coffee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/women-cyclists-hit-omr-every-wednesday/article36801532.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No support vehicle in Audax’||Randonneuring does not offer any scope for having “support vehicles”, as it is an exercise in toughening up the cyclist, something that flows naturally from its self supported format. Safety vehicles are however allowed under special conditions. Raghu Vishal, all-India representative of Audax India Randonneurs, explains: “As per our rules, support vehicle is not permitted. How we make that distinction (between a support vehicle and a safety vehicle) is that a support vehicle typically is in a follow position behind the rider. In cycling, specifically ultra cycling, certain event formats permit and even to some degree require that the cyclist has their own support vehicle with a support group. Those generally include the race across America which goes from the west coast to the east coast, covering thousands of miles. Audax is a completely self-supported format, and therefore support cars are not permissible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-support-vehicle-in-audax/article36801535.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpaths usurped on Nanganallur road||On Fourth Main Road in Nanganallur, footpaths have been usurped by commercial establishments and motorists through unauthorised parking. The problem is acute on the section from Fourth Main Road to the intersection of 46th Street, Fourth Main Road, and Sixth Main Road. Fourth Main Road is a one-way, a fact ignored by most motorists. The Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai City Traffic Police have not taken any steps to address this issue. A Raghavan is a resident of Nanganallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpaths-usurped-on-nanganallur-road/article36801525.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from other cities||Last June, the Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs launched India Cycles4Change Challenge to inspire and support cities to implement cycling-friendly initiatives. The challenge was an attempt to nudge city administrations to work on three unique areas that would also promote cycling in the context of women’s mobility. According to a report by Institute for Transportation and Development policy (ITDP), this can be achieved by “training programmes to empower more women to access and use cycles, pushing for infrastructural interventions to ensure road safety and personal security, and awareness campaigns to inspire more women to cycle.” Fifty cities launched perception surveys to understand barriers to a culture of cycling. Aswathy Dilip, senior programme manager, ITDP, says the survey findings underscored three points. One, how to make roads safe for people who can cycle. Two, how to increase confidence of women who can cycle but have not cycled on any arterial road and how to train those who cannot cycle. Three, what measures can be taken to ensure access to cycles through rental scheme. The survey which drew around 50,000 respondents, found that the steepest barriers faced by men and women while cycling are speeding vehicles, traffic congestion, and poor road surface due to potholes. Issues such as lack of cycle parking, obstructions by parked vehicles, and poor street lighting also came into focus. According to the survey, 49% of the women find cycling unsafe on main roads, while 34% fear cycling at city junctions. One out of every five women said they feared eve-teasing while cycling on the streets. Best practices As part of the challenges, cities came up with various projects. Vadodara appointed an ‘inclusivity manager’ and Karnataka conducted a round-table discussion to understand the challenges faced by women cyclists. “Kakinada hosted women-only cycle rallies; Aurangabad and Bengaluru created what they called pop-up cycle lanes; Gurugram and Chandigarh created safe intersections and the latter also created cycle signals,” says Aswathy. Some cities also worked on creating cycling-friendly neighbourhoods, where they created road signs, traffic calming measures to ensure a safe environment for people to cycle. Aswathy adds: “The stage two of this initiative is coming up, so these cities are expected to work further on their plans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-other-cities/article36801531.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Competitions held||Various competitions were conducted as part of Clean India Movement by the Office of the Deputy Commissioner of GST & Central Excise - Tambaram Division at Ranga Colony in Rajakilpakkam. According to a press release, tree saplings were planted on the office premises. Besides, awareness on avoiding plastic products was created. Jute bags were distributed to employees. The officials also took part in a cleanliness programme at Tambaram Vinoba Nagar Muncipal School. The programmes were conducted under the guidance of the Chennai Outer Principal Commissioner, S Raviselvan, and the Joint Commissioner, Tejkumar. The programmes were executed according to the plan by Assistant Commissioner T Senthil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/competitions-held/article36801543.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanganallur resident captures rare chirps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nanganallur-resident-captures-rare-chirps/article36801507.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Students turn teachers for Daan Utsav||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/students-turn-teachers-for-daan-utsav/article36801509.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Focus on testing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/focus-on-testing/article36801553.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A life of activism and service||“Outside the walls (of Porbandar), the sea was almost within stone’s throw.” For the boy who was born in a seaside town in Gujarat, travel would be in his destiny. Restless as Mercury is the story of the first 45 years of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s life, from his childhood in Porbandar and education in London to his early career and growth as an activist, organiser and leader of a mass movement in South Africa. For anyone else, this itself would be the measure of a full and meaningful life. For Gandhi, who was sui generis, these were his formative years. The special thing about the book is that it is in Gandhi’s own words. Put together by Gopalkrishna Gandhi from parts of the Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi and other writings, this bildungsroman of a volume is a valuable addition to Gandhi’s unforgettable autobiography, The Story of My Experiments with Truth . The title comes from a phrase used by Gandhi’s elder sister Raliyat to describe her younger brother. “Moniya was as restless as mercury, could not sit still even for a little while,” she is quoted in Pyarelal’s biography of Gandhi. Journey to South Africa In keeping with Raliyatben’s words, this is a book about a life of action. Gandhi’s prose is simple and honest. “I was just a boy returned from England wanting to make some money,” he reflects about the first time he arrives in South Africa. It is 1893. He has come on a paid assignment as a lawyer. His client asks him to travel to Pretoria to meet the other party’s lawyer. An incident at Pietermaritzburg begins his political engagement. Every Indian schoolchild knows the story of what happened in Pietermaritzburg, yet it is powerfully moving to read it again, every time. The smart young London-educated lawyer is asked to leave the first-class compartment that he has paid for — because he is brown. He refuses. He is thrown off the train. The experience changes his life, and in doing so, it changes the life of a nation. “I entered the dark waiting room. There was a white man in the room. I was afraid of him. What was my duty, I asked myself. Should I go back to India or should I go forward with God as my helper and face whatever was in store for me?” Displaying courage in the face of adversity, Gandhi’s decision is “to stay and suffer. My active non-violence began from that date.”  Another life-defining phase in Gandhi’s life comes in 1899, when at the outbreak of the Boer War, he organises several hundred Indians into an ambulance corps. War correspondent Vere Stent’s vivid description of their work is quoted in a book by Enuga Reddy about India and the Boer War: “I saw the Indian mule-train move up the slopes of the Kop carrying water to the distressed soldiers who had lain powerless on the plateau. The mules carried water in immense bags, one on each side, led by Indians at their heads. The galling rifle-fire, which heralded their arrival on the top, did not deter the strange-looking cavalcade which moved slowly forward, and as an Indian fell, another quietly stepped forward to fill the vacant place. Afterwards, the grim duty of bearer corps began.” It was hard, heartbreaking work; but Stent was struck by Gandhi’s calm leadership. “I came across Gandhi in the early morning sitting by the roadside — eating a regulation army biscuit. Every man in (General Redvers) Buller’s force was dull and depressed, and damnation was heartily invoked on everything. But Gandhi was stoical in his bearing, and had a kindly eye. He did one good... I saw the man and his small undisciplined corps on many a field during the Natal campaign. When succour was to be rendered they were there.” Departure for India The book is structured in six sections. The first recounts the story of Gandhi’s childhood and marriage; the next, student years in London. The third part recounts the years in South Africa, through two conflicts, with a brief interlude in India. The fourth section tells the story of one fateful year of struggle, 1909, spent between home and prison, when the great tool of non-violent resistance, satyagraha, was shaped. The fifth section is the story of Gandhi’s experiments with community living and the resumption of satyagraha. The final section, again, is the story of one fateful year — 1914 — a year of mass struggle, prison spells, and finally a settlement; followed by the departure for India, where a new future would await Mohandas Gandhi — and the title of Mahatma. This is the story of a life of activism. It is filled with organising, persuading, debating, publishing, and community living. It is about the constant struggle between family responsibilities and public duty. It is a story of sacrifices and defeats, and some mistakes — but also about the feeling of victory. It is about building networks, mentoring friends, staying connected with fellow travellers, and retaining solidarity. It is about maintaining meticulous accounts — of transactions not only financial but also ethical; and in this way, building accountability to others and to oneself. In this 75th year of Indian independence, this account offers new inspiration.  The reviewer is in the IAS.  Restless as Mercury: My Life as a Young Man Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi Edited by Gopalkrishna Gandhi Aleph  Rs. 999    Another life-defining phase in Gandhi’s life comes in 1899, when at the outbreak of the Boer War, he organises several hundred Indians into an ambulance corps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-life-of-activism-and-service/article36801583.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices of a city||What is a city? As I walk or drive around this city I have lived in for many decades, I see it as a multi-layered, many-sided entity; a vague shape on a map, a landscape defined by vestiges of forgotten and persistent histories, the millennial gold rush, and those dramatic boulders that are fast joining the list of things endangered in the anthropocene. And then there is the social, the cultural, the human jigsaw that is the city — the smells and the sounds and turns and edges, all the little things that bother us or bring us joy. How one sees the city depends, like all things, on where — and who — you are. Rising up In the 10-part series, Marine Lines: Mumbai’s Hidden Worlds, from the Suburbs to the Sea , the city reveals itself not just in its high-rises, studios and slums, but in the kilometers of coastline and the sea from which it has risen. Co-created by Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic and DeadAnt Studio, the series has journalist and author Raghu Karnad in conversation with thinkers and doers who are engaged with the city in different ways. My introduction to the podcast was in reverse order, when a friend pointed me to the final episode, featuring Amitav Ghosh and Karnad talking about how to reckon with The Great Derangement , particularly in the wake of the recent cyclone that the city narrowly escaped. Ghosh is as always thoughtful and provocative, and Karnad’s empathetic curiosity allows for an informative and lively interchange. Some of the earlier episodes too focus on biodiversity and sustainability, but Karnad also brings in different aspects of life in Mumbai, including a delightful conversation with Paromita Vohra on public displays of affection and with Ramya Ramnath on how Mumbai’s women have been agents of change. Finding freedom Speaking of women in the city, a series from Vaaka Media turns a sharp ear to “the calculated strategies, backdoor negotiations, and often absurd lengths women go to have fun and feel free in their city.” Their podcast, City of Women , walks us down and off the streets of Bengaluru, in the shoes of its women. “When was the last time you felt free?” ask Radhika Vishwanathan and Samyuktha Varma, in the show’s trailer. “Wait... when did you last feel like the city owned you? That annoying feeling of knowing what you want to do... then reconsidering, adjusting to what the city thinks you should do, what society thinks you should do.” Quite apart from the compelling stories they tell, of women finding freedom, fighting control, of negotiating expectations and aspirations, the sophistication of the binaural sound design makes each episode a pleasure to listen to. Multiple layers And now, back to the city that I call home. Beyond Charminar , from Suno India, is journalist Yunus Lasania’s passion project. Having started out as an oral history exercise that attempted to tap into the memories and experiences of those who had lived in the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad, the podcast has explored a variety of themes ranging from the politics of heritage conservation to battles over identity and ownership to language cultures. Currently in its second season, the show pulls together a range of voices that reveal the multiple layers of the city’s social and cultural past, and their relevance to the present. Each of these podcasts treats the city differently, approaching it from a variety of vantage points and telling its stories in multiple voices, forcing us, at times, to shift our view of a place that may have become a bit too familiar to see, or hear, clearly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/voices-of-a-city/article36801604.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai express||With over a decade on the Mumbai crime beat, journalist Mohamed Thaver has dealt with oddballs, petty thieves, hardened criminals and unintentionally funny policemen. That he has trudged his way through the subterranean mayhem unique to the city and mingled with a diverse section of the ragtag and bobtail, become abundantly clear by the time we get to the endnote telling us how these experiences have fuelled his maiden novel. Reading time may not be a typical metric to measure a book’s worth, but it seems like a good barometer to me. Especially since I have been binging on Agatha Christie, Jo Nesbø, Dick Francis and slow-burning Stephen King horrors through the lockdown to keep the gloom and doom at bay. From kicking off In Plain Sight and getting to the aforementioned brief about the author’s inspirations, with 255 pages in between, just about 36 hours elapsed. Thaver clearly knows how to reel you in with a gripping yarn. The plot revolves around a series of gruesome rapes and murders by an innocuous deviant, but the book doesn’t dwell too much on the grotesque crimes. Instead, it comes across as a cool and pacy police procedural with a ringside view of modern newsrooms — complete with Whatsapp groups and tricky digital biometric attendance apps. Told initially through a rookie crime reporter coming to grips with the half-truths and perfidies of Mumbai’s underbelly that cover up the apparent sophistication of the well-heeled, the narrative doesn’t lose an iota of momentum when the focus shifts to an above-it-all, recalcitrant police sleuth who yearns to return to the simple life of a Maharashtrian village. But first, the police officer must unravel a trail of crimes with no witnesses, and clues that could fit on the back of a postage stamp, with the turn of events almost destroying his assured demeanour. The reporter comes of age, but not before delighting us with the strategy of how he plans his daily culinary escapades in accordance with the police stations dealing with his next crime assignment. Thaver needs to write more, and fast.  In Plain Sight Mohamed Thaver HarperCollins  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mumbai-express/article36801563.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||In a Land Far From Home by Syed Mujtaba Ali||Several writers have tried to understand and explain the ways of Afghanistan, from Babur ( Baburnama ) to Robert Byron ( The Road to Oxiana ) and Homeira Qaderi ( Dancing in the Mosque ). For centuries, Afghanistan was the gateway for invaders to the Indian subcontinent — Alexander the Great, Mahmud of Ghazni, Chengis Khan and Babur all took that route. In the 19th century, Afghanistan was caught in the Great Game between the British and the Russians. Riven by ethnic divisions, it has witnessed periods of brutal conflict and civil wars from the 1920s to the 1999s. The “graveyard of empires” has forced out the British, Russians, and as it turns out now, even the Americans. In his insightful book, Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History , Thomas Barfield asks how and why splits in Afghan society since the 1920s, over the structure of government and its policies, have led to so many periods of state collapse. An intrepid Bengali writer witnessed one such collapse firsthand when he took up a teaching assignment in Kabul in 1927. Colourful bazaar Syed Mujtaba Ali’s In a Land Far From Home , wonderfully translated from the Bengali Deshe Bideshe (1948) by Nazes Afroz, is an account of Afghanistan in the 1920s. It’s an extraordinary portrayal of ordinary people caught between tradition and modernity, diversity and nationalism, valour and hospitality, wealth and poverty. Mujtaba Ali left Santiniketan for Kabul with “an extremely inquisitive mind” after finishing his studies at Visva-Bharati, where Rabindranath Tagore welcomed the world. In his introduction, Afroz points out that Mujtaba Ali was a polyglot who mastered 12 languages, including Bengali, English, Urdu, Farsi, Pashto, German and French, which helped him in Kabul, where people of many nationalities gathered. He was fascinated by Kabul’s bazaar, which might have been poorer than Peshawar, but was far more colourful. “People of at least 25 nationalities did their trading there, keeping their sartorial and linguistic distinctions. Hazara, Uzbek, Kafiristani, Qizilbash, Mongol, Kurd — the traders of Kabul could easily tell who was from where... They would walk the same streets happily, accepting this diversity.” Mujtaba Ali was awestruck by the intricately-patterned carpets — at least 30 kinds were sold in Kabul. There was a big inn at the end of the bazaar where traders would gather after the day’s work and evening prayers. The Mongols, he writes, would start dancing in a circle, whirling all the time. An Iranian could be seen in a corner with a sitar next to his ear, singing verses from Hafiz. The main gathering was around the Tajiks, singing loudly in unison. Besieged city The deeply anti-British teacher — India’s struggle for Independence was on — gathered insights about Afghan society from Kabulis, and the French, Russians and Germans working there, but most of all from Abdur Rahman, a Tajik from Panjshir. Rahman, eloquent about his land and snow, was Mujtaba Ali’s Man Friday who took great care of him. This was the time King Amanullah wanted to modernise Afghan society. He announced reforms, including encouraging women to do away with the veil and banning traditional dress for men in public. Thanks to the king’s orders, most of the shops could not open in the initial stages because the men did not have the dereshi (a Western suit). The mullahs resisted the king’s moves and masterminded tribal rebellions, forcing King Amanullah to abdicate. “Amanullah wanted to pull the turban off the poor Afghans and he paid the price by losing the crown.” A Tajik from the north of Kabul, Bacha Saqao, took over the throne and immediately set about destroying schools, books, and ordering all foreigners out. Mujtaba Ali provides heartrending descriptions of a besieged city surviving only on dry bread and salt. He finally got out of Kabul with the help of the British but not before a few sharp words to Sir Francis, the city’s top diplomat, for saying Indians had no rights in Kabul. His travelogue is eerily prescient, foretelling Afghanistan’s cycles of turmoil with its million mutinies. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Mujtaba Ali was awestruck by the intricately-patterned carpets — at least 30 kinds were sold in Kabul||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-a-land-far-from-home-by-syed-mujtaba-ali/article36801564.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The beauty of the banal||Is an ‘ordinary event’ an oxymoron? Is an event a disruption of the ordinary? Must the ordinary remain eventless? The House Next to the Factory has given me answers I did not know were possible. Having spent many years reading and writing about the ordinary, it is a delight for me to come across a collection of stories that is one of the most human and heartening embodiment of what language and narrative can do with the great paradox of the banal.This is a book where a man on a scooter suffers a serious injury, not from a riot, but from a grease-patch left in the middle of a road, possibly kerosene used in the madness. This is a book that asks whether literature is an immersion into the quotidian or a violation of it, only to show that literature is both, and that there really is no conflict between them. Marginalised lives Artistic representation, particularly that which happens through language, undergoes a radical change with modernity. Much of the grand sweep through time that defined epics, myths, and folktales begins to disappear, making space for the close and intimate shot of the moment. Crystallised through the solitary interiority of the modern subject, the modern short story becomes a natural magnet for banalities that were never imagined to be the subject for art in the past. Such representations of the ordinary easily draw in inanimate objects, elements least likely to stir with drama or turmoil. But Sonal Kohli’s stories are special in that she does not hesitate to include human drama in her delicate evocations of the quotidian. It is the tantalising balance of stillness and the (never quite realised) lure of drama that makes The House Next to the Factory a very special book. Kohli brings the marginality of the quotidian to loving and troubled contact with the lives of marginalised people. They imagine themselves to be small and minor; consequently, the throbbing drama of their lives hesitates to sprout. The evocatively titled ‘Other Side of Town’ opens with the manservant Johny Walker’s fear and confusion at a woman’s desire for him. The street-cleaner, Rani, had suddenly kissed him, and “hurt and shame” had “crossed her face when he pushed her away”. There were fears he couldn’t dismiss. “She was a low-caste sweeper. What if somebody had seen them?” Fear and shame take a long time to dissolve, even as they start to grow intimate. “When he was heading out, she gave him a polythene bag to cover his head, but they were glad for the rain because no one would see him leaving her house so late.” Authentic sensibility But nothing changes the trajectory of a burgeoning relationship as one’s insertion into the mundane niceties of a loved one’s life: “One day he bought an exhaust fan for the kitchen and put a twenty-rupee note in Rani’s palm to send for the electrician later. When she folded her fingers over the note, it quietly changed something between them. Johny Walker had never known what it was to be a part of a house or someone’s life in this way.” In her sentences, Kohli touches the rarest of sweet spots, the near-invisible space between delicious intricacy and craftless innocence: “Mr. Lamba picked the skin off the tea”; “Her face was like a shrivelled apricot, her eyes were lined with kohl”; “bundles of clothes that looked like dusty pumpkins”; “He was handsome, though not good-looking”; “Roshan had lost his temper, face red, the many moles ready to pop like mustard seeds.” Even more admirable is the way she adapts the naïve, sometimes thoughtless voices of her characters, embodying a deeply local vernacular. In the story, ‘Weekend in Landour,’ people who would perhaps have been described by others as ‘white’ or ‘European’ are called “foreigners,” evoking an authentic, localised Indian sensibility: “Two foreigners sat in a window smoking, a man in a kurta and a girl in a pink kameez.” Life must go on while a story happens. As someone who teaches creative writing, I often find this a hard lesson to impress on aspiring writers. The lightly stirred eddies of life keep moving in the fiction of the writers scattered through these stories: Henry Green, R.K. Narayan, V.S. Pritchett, Amrita Pritam, Anton Chekhov. The swirl of art that comes alive in this constellation says a lot about the aesthetic of Kohli’s stories, drawing them into a tender and intimate tradition of world literature. The reviewer’s novels includeThe Firebird(2015),The Scent of God(2019), and the forthcomingThe Middle Finger.  The House Next to the Factory Sonal Kohli Fourth Estate   Rs. 499    Sonal Kohli’s stories are special in that she does not hesitate to include human drama in her delicate evocations of the quotidian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-beauty-of-the-banal/article36801566.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Idle pathos||In the mid-19th century, when the colonial powers declared slavery abolished, they still wanted cheap labour. The Cane-Cutter’s Song brings to life one of the consequent human dramas, wherein indentured Tamil ‘coolies’ emigrated to the French Martinique, in the Caribbean, to cut sugarcane — and to contend with other races, black and white. From this “miasma of exploitation, inter-racial hatred and... angst” (as the translator’s introduction puts it) emerged a new Creole tongue and identity. This book too is originally in French and Creole. Raphaël Confiant, the author, is described by the same introduction as “one of Martinique’s most prolific littérateurs... a militant proponent of Creole culture.” The book is colourful, energetic, chock-full of ‘lilting pathos’, well written and evidently well translated. I could elaborate on all these fronts, but I would rather not, because there is another factor which calls for comment, one which does not exactly belong to the novel, but does belong to the rhetorical context, and therefore to that communication which a reader is actually encountering. It is the arbitrariness of this publication. In the blurb, Jerry Pinto says: “This story is a part of our history on the subcontinent, one which we have long neglected ” (my emphasis). He is surely right. But is neglect a kind of achievement, a foundation for gushing sentimentality? No. In fact, neglect carries an inexorable price. When a theme hardly figures in any literary conversation in Indian English, then for a novel bursting with it, to suddenly drop out of nowhere, is confusing. One thinks, by analogy, of some wastrel aristocrat discovering a new treasure in his inheritance, and excitedly ‘laying claim’ to it, without ever tending to it. In a lesser degree, this criticism may apply even to the original. Confiant does seem too possessive of his material, such that the superstitions, prejudices and greed (of all concerned races) become more exoticised than understood. However, Confiant has an enduring relationship with his material. One respects that. When the same book appears in India, entering the Indian English literary discourse, then the idleness of the communication becomes startlingly brazen. The writer is the author, most recently, ofThe Outraged: Times of Strife.  The Cane-Cutter’s Song Raphaël Confiant, trs Vidya Vencatesan Speaking Tiger  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/idle-pathos/article36801568.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Giving an obscure figure of the 1857 revolt her rightful place||The villain in Rudrangshu Mukherjee’s A Begum & A Rani: Hazrat Mahal and Lakshmibai in 1857 is certainly the British, but it is also time and memory. Mukherjee places Begum Hazrat Mahal, an obscure figure who was integral to the mobilisation of the 1857 revolt — taught to students as “India’s first war of independence” — alongside Rani Lakshmibai, whose life has spurred not just biographies but hagiographies, calcified by myth and movies, the 2019 Kangana Ranaut shriek-historical, Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi , notwithstanding.  The book, divided into four parts — Origins, Rebellion, Leadership, Afterlife — is attempting two important correctives. The first is to give Begum Hazrat Mahal of Awadh her rightful place in history. Daughter of an African slave, she was briefly married to Awadh’s king Wajid Ali Shah, then divorced and left behind in Awadh, as Shah moved to Calcutta after the British annexed Awadh in 1856. She helped mobilise the military and administration of Awadh, which became the war theatre’s centrepiece after Delhi was vanquished by the British. This story is also important to counter the narrative that the 1857 revolt was a pastiche of mindless and uncoordinated violence, because it was meticulously planned. Mukherjee quotes generously, indulgently, with page-long historical anecdotes which could have been paraphrased or woven into the narrative. There are too many anecdotal jolts for a seamless read. Eventual move The second objective is to inject some history into the hagiography of Rani Lakshmibai. Mukherjee notes how she wasn’t the ready rebel we think of today. That she even wrote to British officials asking for help, declaring her support to their regime, and it was only when she was pushed against circumstances that she eventually took to the battlefield with vigour, dying in it, memorialised by it. This is a clever framing here that Mukherjee employs, because there isn’t enough information on Hazrat Mahal to carry an entire book by itself. There isn’t even an available description of how she looked. Her role in the rebellion is behind-the-scenes, and her obscurity is thus, double. To resurrect her, by pairing her with the most coveted figure of the rebellion — Rani Lakshmibai — is thus necessary, because Mukherjee gets to not just tell their stories, demystified or dusted, but to speak to the larger villainy of historic memory — who gets written about and why? Putting it in context Mukherjee is a master of context, providing a sense of the time, even as he is hazy on the details of main events, recounting them as historical facts and not narrations, preferring a depth of detailing around the event over the grip of a historical plot. That said, a map would have been helpful to make sense of the geographic dump of names. It must be noted, though, that Lakshmibai and Hazrat Mahal never met, and in the 140-page book, their paths, and the paths of their rebellion also don’t cross, as if they were happening in different times, different places. Sometimes, as a result, the book feels disjointed — that the only reason for having these two stories together is not that they will tangle, but that through comparison, each one’s story deepens, darkens. Placing these figures side by side, the urge to compare them comes but naturally. Mukherjee’s insistence on Hazrat Mahal’s oblivion comes short of calling her more important and interesting than Rani Lakshmibai. That Rani Lakshmibai fought on the battlefield while Hazrat Mahal fled to Nepal is enough to deify the former, and forget the latter, he finds unfair. That Lakshmibai and her son were receiving pensions from the British government, while Hazrat Mahal who died in obscurity and her son, both refused it, he finds telling. That history is besotted with blood, he finds tragic. That historians can puncture history’s myopia, he finds hopeful. Thus, this book.  The writer is a critic with a weekly online newsletter titledprathyush.substack.com  A Begum & A Rani: Hazrat Mahal and Lakshmibai in 1857 Rudrangshu Mukherjee Penguin Random House India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/giving-an-obscure-figure-of-the-1857-revolt-her-rightful-place/article36801578.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On October 3, 52 BC, Vercingetorix the leader of the Arveni tribe, who united the Gauls in their revolt against Roman forces, finally surrendered. This brought an end to the battle of Alesia and the Gallic wars. Legend has it that Vercingetorix rode his fully adorned horse right up to his rival leader, dismounted, stripped himself of his armour and sat down at his opponent’s feet. This is alluded to repeatedly in the Asterix comics, although it shows him literally throwing his swords on the rival’s feet causing pain. Who was the Emperor at whose feet the brave Gaul surrendered? 2 When Asterix and Obelix come to India in Asterix and the Magic Carpet along with fakir ‘Watziznehm’ to help rescue princess Orinjade, they run into trouble when they face opposition from ‘Hoodunnit’, the scheming Grand Vizier and his henchman. While flying on the magic carpet they are rudely stopped mid journey by the henchman. Recognising him, Watziznehm shouts out the henchman’s name to which Obelix responds, “Not out I’m afraid.” What is the name of the henchman, which is a reference to a sports term that you would hear whenever an excited player turns towards the umpire? 3 In a scene in Asterix and Switzerland , one of the Swiss men beats up a Roman soldier and then dresses his wounds. When asked why, he says, “We look after all combatants whatever their nationality.” This is a reference to a certain entity that has its origins and logo design associated with the country. What entity is being referred to in the comic panel? 4 We meet the character Anticlimax in Asterix in Britain and he is from Oxbrigienses, a fictional tribe which is skilled in a particular sport. The name is a portmanteau, which refers to two actual entities that have been locked in a battle over that very sport for more than 160 years. What are the two entities and what sport is the tribe skilled at? 5 Olaf Timandahaf is the Viking chieftain from Scandinavia who kidnaps Justforkix in Asterix and the Normans . In the film adaption, he has a wife, and a daughter who marries Justforkix. Both their names refer to two very famous products from the same country. The wife’s name refers to a company named after its founder and the village he is from, while the daughter is named after a pop group whose name is an acronym derived from its four founders. What are their names? 6 There are multiple theories for this age-old mystery, which historians believe has been this way since 9 BCE. One theory blames an errant cannonball fired by Napoleon’s Army, another blames Muhammad Sa'im al-Dahr who did this in an act of iconoclasm. Though we may never get to know the truth the Asterix comics gives us the theory that this particular oddity exists in the real world because Obelix wanted a better view of the Pyramids. What interesting issue is this about? 7 In Asterix and the Black Gold , Julius Caesar sends a secret agent called Dubbelosix to infiltrate the Gauls. The agent communicates using a fly which spies on the characters like a bug, and even has a folding chariot full of secret devices. The character is drawn to resemble an actor, who at that time was the most famous secret agent onscreen, and the name is a homage to the number of times this actor officially played the character onscreen. Which actor is Dubbelosix modelled on? 8 This character’s name in French is ‘Assurancetourix’ or in some translations ‘Malacoustix’, while his German name ‘Troubadix’ is a pun on the word ‘troubadour’, a minstrel of the Middle Ages. His name in Hindi is ‘Gavaiyañbesurix’ (one who sings out of tune) and in Bengali, ‘Kawlorobix’ (raising a racket about nothing) and a fantastic translator suggests that in Tamil it could be ‘Abaswaramix’. Which apparently annoying but lovable character is this? 9 Asterix in Belgium , published in 1980, was the last story penned by original creator René Goscinny. The story revolves around the Gauls and Belgians trying to prove who is braver. Finally Caesar himself shows up to judge them. On Pg.31 his arrival is announced by two gentlemen in colourful costumes who say ‘To be precise Culius Jaesar has arrived in Gelbium’. Interestingly only this panel is drawn in different style, which is an homage to a famous Belgian cartoonist. Who are these two characters? 10 In Asterix and the Chariot Race , published in 2017, the story revolves around a race endorsed by Julius Caesar who wants to show off the excellent condition of Roman roads. Obelix and Asterix take part too, but their biggest rival is a masked Roman charioteer, who we eventually discover is Caesar himself, trying to cheat. What was the name of the masked rider, which interestingly should make you think of masks immediately now? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36801595.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Force K6 in a colonial war||Whether it’s Dunkirk or Iwo Jima, we tend to associate World War II with other countries. India, of course, was in the midst of the struggle for independence during the years of the war. But, since the country was a British colony, it was also dragged into the war not just in terms of materials being shipped. A crucial factor were the soldiers from India who fought on the battlefields of Europe but remain unknown. Multiple threads Of late, we have had books on the Indian participation in World War II and here is another which looks at soldiers from undivided Punjab who arrived in France in 1939 and returned to find their country on the verge of Partition. Ghee Bowman’s The Indian Contingent: The Forgotten Muslim Soldiers of the Battle of Dunkirk focuses on a group called Force K6, who were largely from the northwest provinces, now in Pakistan. They were part of the mule transport companies, which helped the British army transport supplies in areas where trucks could not reach. During the Battle of Dunkirk, some of these men were captured but many escaped to Britain and were relocated to various parts of the U.K. where they helped in the infantry training. Bowman doesn’t lump all the individuals together into one unit. Each person has a story and he unravels the multiple threads till the reader gets a complete picture of the “poets and musicians, cooks and carpenters and a veterinarian... writers, cinema lovers, boyfriends and parents” — as author Yasmin Khan puts it in the Foreword — who comprised the Force K6. On the one end you have poetry-writing Aurangzeb who died as an 18-year-old in Wales and is still remembered in his village in Pakistan; at the other is mule driver Mahmud Khan who is captured by the Germans, forced to join the Indian Legion, seduces his German officer’s daughter and a male orderly and escapes to Switzerland. Forming bonds Bowman also tracks the lives of the men in “obscure corners of the British Isles” where they “formed strong bonds with farmers, children and women”. Some of these bonds resulted in children and the story of Jeff Shapland who finds out about his father Jamal Khan much later in life is moving. Shapland recounts being singled out for his dark looks — at Leeds University South Asian men would talk to him in Hindi or Urdu and his landlady in Bristol wouldn’t let him eat in the common dining room, he was abused and punched by students at his school in Leicester —and how he came to accept himself. There is a lovely little nugget of jemadar Malik Mohammed Khan visiting a school to hear Welsh folk songs and teaching the children a Punjabi lullaby that went ‘Sunate Sunate Sunate Krishna’. There are also anecdotes from those who were children at that time about their interactions with these soldiers. In his Prologue, Bowman writes, “This book aims to reclaim them from the backwater and reinstate them in the mainstream: part of the current of recognition of Commonwealth and global contributions to the Second World War.” He has, indeed, succeeded in this.   The Indian Contingent: The Forgotten Muslim Soldiers of the Battle of Dunkirk Ghee Bowman Pan Macmillan  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/force-k6-in-a-colonial-war/article36801580.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Candelabra etcetera||Dear Agony Akka,  My teenage daughter Xiaomi is very fond of watching DIY videos on phone. As a modern father, I am ok with that. What is troubling me — actually my entire family — is that she implements what she watches. The other day I couldn’t find my banian. Turns out she made it into a tube top by cutting off the shoulder straps and enlarging its holes. When my mother could not find her dentures, we realised it had become a “pink candlestand with yellow tiles”. Xiaomi had made the candle for the stand by melting my younger daughter Redmi’s crayons into a heart, which Xiaomi said would drive away the negative energy in the house. But there is no energy, negative or positive, left in the house. When I pointed this out, she threw a tantrum and locked me out of the favourite apps on my phone and I don’t know how to get them back. Since you read the mind of youth as nobody does, please help me handle her. — Disturbed by Insane Youth   Dear DIY,  Thepandemic brought many ills like death, hospitalisation and astonishing lies, but the most grievous suffering was married people being locked up indoors with all family members including teenage offspring with too much time on their hands. Firstly you are getting married, secondly you are producing offspring, thirdly you are letting them flourish till they reach teenage means how to help you. Anyway please tell me if I can borrow Xiaomi for a few days? My brother’s broken violin is lying with me for years and maybe she can make it into a study table. Frankly, I am unable to understand what is your problem with tube tops and candlestands. All households need such items and your daughter is only trying to help out the family finances with some recycling. I mean, think of my neighbours Alka and Ashok. Their son, who wants to be a policeman, decided to start early training by watching cop videos at home. At first, he was directing traffic in the colony. Next thing you know, he was beating up the watchman, milkman and all. Part 2 of tutorials began it seems. Throughout the nation, youths are wandering about after DIY lessons in patriotism or holiness and making life miserable for all. In Mangaluru, two boys got their parents arrested because they did not remain standing for entire duration of one Akshay Kumar movie. In neighbouring Bengaluru, when one youth saw a video of Jaggedish Bossdev posing in bulldozer and pronouncing “body is machine that gets better with use,” he stole his mother’s jewellery to buy a JCB that’s now parked in their front garden. Be happy you still have a phone. And what about the baking and cooking videos? Open FB or Insta and steady stream of food pictures starts dripping out like water from Chennai corporation tanker. Beloved son / daughter / pet poodle baked cupcake / banana bread / brownies today. Or made shrimp salad / pasta Genovese. Everyone’s child is A1 chef, everything has basil, micro-greens and cherry tomatoes, but go for dinner to their house means they will serve you veg biriyani. Naturally, because all household money has gone into buying fresh goat cheese for budding Bourdain. Maybe you’re serving better food for guests since your daughter is only melting crayons and not kilos of camembert for fondue. Only thing in your life I’m anxious about is your mother’s dentures. Do you put out that candle when she is eating? Or do you light it up and use it for the crème brûlée? — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/candelabra-etcetera/article36801593.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kiwi deception||Today’s deal was played many years ago in New Zealand, where locals are nicknamed kiwis, at least by Australians. South was New Zealand expert Malcolm Sims. North, whose splinter bid was a bit exuberant, was a young Paul Marston, who would later emigrate to Australia and accomplish some great things in bridge. Sims saw that he could win the opening diamond lead and draw trumps, after which there would be an excellent chance of developing a diamond winner for a club discard. The problem was that the defense would surely shift to clubs, and unless there was a lucky blockage in clubs, they would take three club tricks to defeat the contract. Sims found a clever way to improve his chances. He smoothly ducked the opening lead and allowed the Queen of diamonds to hold the trick. West might have shifted, but who would do that? It seemed that attacking diamonds was a good start for the defense. West continued with a low diamond to East’s 10 and Sims’s ace. Sims now drew trumps, ending in his hand, and ran the nine of diamonds. The ace of hearts and a heart ruff gave him an entry to dummy, and he discarded a club on the king of diamonds. Ten tricks and a nice reward for enterprising play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kiwi-deception/article36801598.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The special timepiece||“No legacy is so rich as honesty.” So goes a famous Shakespearean quote. When we were about to catch a train from Shimla in the evening, he came there running and handed over to us that repaired timepiece. With a melancholy face, he wanted to convey something but it was too late. My parents and brother and I were on vacation to Shimla. We were having lunch in a restaurant. My dad had the habit of removing his wristwatch (which was very dear to him as it was presented by his dearest cousin) when having food. The waiter pushed it off the table accidentally and it got damaged. He apologised and suggested a watch repair shop nearby. Somehow, the name of the small shop “Mataji Watch Repairs” caught my attention. After examining the damage, the young owner suggested that we collect the watch the next day. As we had to catch a train back to our hometown, my father expressed his inability to collect it at the time he had mentioned. The boy asked my father when we were leaving and to that, my dad merely said by the 6 ’0’ clock train. He convinced us saying that the watch would be ready the next morning. The next day, we went to the shop to find it closed. When the train was about to leave, he came running. My father waved at him and evidently with great relief, he hurriedly came to us and handed over the watch. My father, though pleased on getting back his watch, severely scolded him for his late delivery. The man wanted to convey something to us with tears in his eyes but the train started moving. But the mystery of the late delivery was solved an hour later when we bought tea from the tea vendor. Handing over the teacups, he said, “Sir, I saw you scolding that boy for not opening his shop. He is my friend and he lost his mother this very morning.” We lauded his honesty even at a difficult phase of his life. priyasri_m_1976@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-special-timepiece/article36801559.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mahanadi: The Tale of a River||Anita Agnihotri, trs Nivedita Sen  Niyogi Books Rs. 595 Mahanadi is entwined with the lives of the people it touches. The novel comes alive with the din and bustle of a mofussil town and the slower rhythms of a village. The sighs of the displaced during the building of the Hirakud dam mix with the cries of the people on the banks when the river overflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mahanadi-the-tale-of-a-river/article36801561.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||In My Dreams I Hold a Knife||Ashley Winstead  Sourcebooks Landmark Rs. 572 (Kindle price) Ten years after graduation, Jessica Miller is planning a triumphant return to her elite Duquette University. She had left the campus under the cloud of Heather Shelby’s murder. Heather’s murder won’t go unsolved as someone is determined to trap the real killer, to make the guilty pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-my-dreams-i-hold-a-knife/article36801570.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||All’s Well||Mona Awad  Simon & Schuster Rs. 360 (Kindle price) Miranda Fitch’s life is a nightmare, with chronic back pain and a failed marriage. As the college theatre director she wants to stageAll’s Well That Ends Well, but the cast is hellbent onMacbeth. This is the story of a woman at her breaking point and an indictment of our refusal to believe female pain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/alls-well/article36801572.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Apples Never Fall||Liane Moriarty  Michael Joseph Rs. 699 Joy Delaney and husband Stan have four wonderful grown-up children, a family business to envy and the golden years of retirement ahead of them. Then Joy vanishes without a trace. What are they all hiding? Do the Delaney children know their parents at all?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/apples-never-fall/article36801574.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Elusive Non-violence: The Making and Unmaking of Gandhi’s Religion of Ahimsa||Jyotirmaya Sharma  Context Rs. 699 In a new analysis of violence and non-violence as seen through the Gandhian prism, a writer argues that Gandhi acknowledged the absence of any serious tradition of non-violence in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/elusive-non-violence-the-making-and-unmaking-of-gandhis-religion-of-ahimsa/article36801576.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Gandhi: His Engagement with Islam and the Arab World||Abdulnabi Alshoala  Rupa Rs. 595 This book revisits Gandhi’s intellectual heritage and ponders over two focal points: his decisive stance against any and all forms of injustice, discrimination, violence and terrorism, and his fair and equitable attitude on issues relating to Arabs and Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gandhi-his-engagement-with-islam-and-the-arab-world/article36801587.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Economist Gandhi||Jaithirth Rao  India Portfolio/PRH Rs. 499 Examining Mahatma Gandhi through an unconventional lens, Rao studies Gandhi’s economic philosophy. He argues that Gandhi had a positive approach towards business and capitalism: even though he greatly reduced his individual wants, he was against poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/economist-gandhi/article36801589.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Murderer, the Monarch and the Fakir||Appu Esthose Suresh, Priyanka Kotamraju  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Based on previously unseen intelligence reports and police records, two writers revisit Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination and argue that there was a conspiracy which ran much deeper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-murderer-the-monarch-and-the-fakir/article36801591.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3170||Across  1 The Northern cream’s gathered — its inhabitants would say! (10) 6 Incredulous utterance, AngloSaxon, loud: Everyman’s entertained (2,2) 9 Fire outfit with old German first (3-2-3-2) 10 Regularly narrates tricks (4) 12 Solver, doubtful: ‘Weary of France? That’s not right’ (5,3,3) 15 Exactly, son’s trapped rabbits (5,2) 16 City state her analysis covers (7) 17 Regret insult that’s spoken: nonsense! (7) 19 Troglodyte’s back to front in dad’s happy place? (3,4) 20 Gourmet: ‘Good, great’ (11) 23 Brad’s secure (4) 24 Sat about with our five pets (10) 25 Single sub announced (4) 26 A bit flighty, earsplitting, needing distance (5-5)  Down  1 Wise men one publication introduces (4) 2 Crazy? Oh no! (4) 3 Merry, Ray plays harp drunkenly (5,2,5) 4 Mouldy buns leading to runs in a French holiday’s discomfort? (7) 5 Most provocative side get beaten (7) 7 What’s spoken extensively: Romania, Bosnia (obviously), Czech Republic (officially accepted) — that’s just for starters! (5-5) 8 Prepared fresh fig in child’s fare (4,6) 11 Wholesaler’s current account with booze comedian’s drunk (4-3-5) 13 Native struck oil bargain (10) 14 Hearing positive little thing being discussed (2,8) 18 Being heartless fighter, S Asian (7) 19 Mother, insect’s enormous (7) 21 Stakes raised: it’s hot in Sicily (4) 22 Employs punsters now and then (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3170/article36801601.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||First person singular||The Haruki Murakami Library in Tokyo’s Waseda University, the novelist’s alma mater, opened to visitors on October 1. A library dedicated to a living author might seem bizarre but it is entirely in keeping with Murakami’s cult status. His website is a virtual library of sorts, with images of his T-shirt collection, his writing desk with its knick-knacks, his interviews, essays and books. Murakami’s attitude to his own celebrity has always been of bemused acceptance: in his recent works, he can even be seen playing with the ‘Murakami effect’ — a substitution of meaning with meaninglessness — with his trademark poker face. His novels are also archives, delving into his favourite authors, from Kafka to Orwell to Fitzgerald. In Murakami’s illustrated novella,The Strange Library, the characters find themselves trapped in a nightmarish archive, which might be a symbol of the authorial imagination. If visitors to the Haruki Murakami Library find themselves in a similar predicament, they can escape with coffee and jazz, on offer at the student-run Orange Cat café inside the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/first-person-singular/article36801555.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||On vaccines for pre-teens, when severe disease is rare||Pfizer has submitted to the FDA Phase 2/3 trial data of mRNA vaccine on children 5–11 years for initial review. A formal submission to request for emergency use authorisation is expected in the coming weeks.   On September 20, Pfizer released details of the trial that showed the vaccine was safe and generated a “robust” antibody response in young children. Going by past experience, the FDA might greenlight the vaccine for young children in a matter of weeks. The company expects to submit data of children 2–4 years and 6 months to 1 year by the end of the year.   In an email, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore, and Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, physician-epidemiologist, discuss whether young children should be vaccinated and if that would further exacerbate vaccine inequity globally.  Considering that children below 11 years rarely suffer from severe disease and death, is it necessary to vaccinate young children?  Gagandeep Kang (GK): All decisions about children needing to be vaccinated are based on assessment of risk and benefit. Here, when making decisions for public health, we also need to separate the benefits of vaccination against disease and against infection. If the risk from disease is low, then the risks of side-effects of vaccination need to be evaluated against the potential benefits of preventing a few cases. When we come to protection afforded by vaccines against infection, we need to understand whether infected children are a source of infection for the community. If children transmit infections, without themselves having severe disease, there may still be a benefit in vaccination. However, decisions need to be based on evidence, and as with other infectious diseases, transmission by children may be dependent on the amount of virus circulating in the community as well as the prior exposure of the community, and this will vary by geography.  Chandrakant Lahariya (CL): Conducting clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines in all age groups that are affected by the pathogen/disease is a standard process. However, the licensing and availability of an effective vaccine does not mean we need to find an arm to administer it. At present, there is not enough evidence to prioritise all children in 12–17 years over the vaccination of adults. Is it safe to vaccinate young children considering the small risk of myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the outer lining of the heart) seen in adolescents and young adults after the second dose of the mRNA vaccine?  GK: Myocarditis and pericarditis have been reported after the mRNA vaccines, particularly in young males. These are not common side-effects, and as with every other vaccine, we need to balance the small risk and the potential benefit. The data provided by Pfizer are likely to be sufficient for approval. It is for public health authorities to decide whether they want to introduce vaccination into national immunisation programmes. Even if public health authorities in a country decide not to introduce the vaccine, it is possible that parents may decide, with the advice of their doctors, that they want to achieve protection for their children. In that case, would we want to override the decisions of parents for their children? Is the trial carried out on just 2,268 participants aged 5–11 years sufficient to understand the safety profile of the vaccine?  GK: Yes, that is sufficient information for approval. Usually, safety assessments are carried out in a few thousand individuals across a much wider age range. We already have data for older children and adults. The vaccines are generally safe as no strong signals have been detected in the trials. The small risk of viral myocarditis was identified in adults and adolescents after the mRNA vaccine was widely used, indicating that in the countries that are reporting the data, there is effective monitoring of adverse events following immunisation. Understanding the level of risk is important for all decisions regarding introduction and continued use of vaccines. If decisions are made to introduce vaccines in young children, post-introduction monitoring for safety will need to continue as for all other vaccines.  CL: The information on the safety of vaccines is generated from the data of all trial participants. The subgroup provides an indication on safety profile. However, more than safety, the smaller trials in children examine immunogenicity (whether vaccines are generating immune response); dose response (what dose of vaccine generates comparable immune response) and reactogenicity to various doses. What we need to remember is that trials are designed to identify common adverse events. However, rare adverse events which happen at a frequency lower than one in trial size can only be identified after roll-out of vaccines. That’s why the post-marketing surveillance (after vaccine roll-out) and stronger AEFI reporting systems are very relevant. Unlike 30 microgram dosage given to adults, is reducing the dosage of vaccines to 10 microgram in children 5–11 years likely to make the vaccine safer?  GK: When there is a side-effect of a vaccine, it does not always depend on the amount of active ingredients in the vaccine. It could also depend just on the presence or absence of one of the ingredients and how the vaccinated person responds to it. If there was a dose response, as in a higher dose carries a higher risk, then it is possible that there would be a lower risk in young children or with a lower dose. However, we do not know that at this time.  CL: The rare systemic adverse events, such as viral myocarditis, are not dose-dependent. The purpose of reduced dose is to achieve a similar level of immune response and reduce or minimise local reactions, which sometimes are reported at higher frequency in children. Moreover, if the same immune response can be achieved with a lower dose of the vaccine, more children can be vaccinated. Director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Dr. Anthony Fauci was quoted as saying that he expects approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in a few weeks and vaccination of young children might begin by the end of October. After booster shots for certain categories of adults, does vaccination of young children further impact the supply of precious vaccines to low- and middle-income countries and thus further exacerbate vaccine inequity?  GK: Yes, vaccinating children at a time when vulnerable people in other parts of the world have not been vaccinated is a problem for global vaccine equity. However, all countries make their decisions for the benefit of their citizens first, and then think about the rest of the world.  CL: Every country is free to determine what criteria it wishes to adopt to vaccinate different sets of population groups. The vaccination decisions are based upon the burden of disease, safety and efficacy of vaccines and availability of supply. All of these are considered together. If a country gives importance to availability of supply of vaccines to administer to additional population groups, it has the right to do so, but then, in doing so, it fails in ethical and moral principles of vaccination drives.  When there is a side-effect of a vaccine, it does not always depend on the amount of active ingredients in the vaccine. It could also depend just on the presence or absence of one of the ingred- ients and how the vaccinated person responds to it. Gagandeep Kang||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/on-vaccines-for-pre-teens-when-severe-disease-is-rare/article36801318.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Universities are key in educating the young||While we have highlighted the importance of introducing humanities and social sciences in the IITs, the roles that universities and colleges play in educating their youngsters need to be pointed out. During the British colonial rule, while on one hand they charged exorbitant amounts as taxes for their revenue, there were some academicians too, who set up colleges and universities in the Bombay, Madras and Bengal Presidencies. In Bombay, they set up a regular academic college, and medical and law colleges. In Madras, they set up the Madras Presidency College in 1840, and in Bengal the Calcutta Presidency College in 1817.  All these offered quality and contemporary education. In addition, Christian missionaries also started some colleges in Delhi, undivided Punjab, Madras and Assam. Notable among these is the Christian Medical College at Vellore, which continues to offer world-class clinical practice and research to this day. Royal initiatives Quite besides these are the schools and colleges started by the Maharajas and Princely State Kings across India, particularly in the South. They have been the bedrock of imparting knowledge and wisdom, history, geography, and religions, over the last century. They have produced scholars, historians, writers and poets, civil servants, judges, chief ministers, governors and Presidents of India, and also M.S. Swaminathan of the Green Revolution and M. Visvesvaraya, the famous dam builder, and also the Nobel Prize winners (C.V. Raman, S Chandrasekhar and most recently Venky Ramakrishnan who is an alumnus of the century-old M.S. University Vadodara). Outstanding institution One outstanding institution founded in 1909 at Bangalore through the joint efforts of J.N. Tata and the Maharaja of Mysore is the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), which has been spearheading research in science and technology from the very beginning. Outstanding research in genetics, molecular and cell biology, and protein structure and function has been going on from the very beginning. In recent times, IISc has become world-famous for its achievements in computer science and software technology. Thanks to the series of books on this subject by Dr. V. Rajaraman (which has been the Bible for thousands of students) and the investment by Shri. N.R. Narayanamurthy, who founded Infosys Foundation, India has become a world-leader in software. They have made many graduates from IITs and universities to turn to this area and flock to Silicon Valley in California for jobs, and do very well there. Moving on to two Central Universities at Delhi, namely, Delhi University with its North and South campuses, and Jawaharlal Nehru University or JNU, we find quite notably that apart from their proven expertise in the areas of economics, humanities and social sciences, they have been doing remarkably well in science and biotechnology. The North Campus has been a forerunner in botany and plant sciences, and the South Campus in medical and biotechnology. And JNU, apart from its distinction in economics (Prof. Utsa Patnaik, who estimated how the British Empire impoverished India by 500 trillion dollars to become the richest Empire in the world), has also an active genetics and biotechnology group (Prof. Anand Ranganathan) that works on TB and Malaria, thus protecting us from these diseases.  But, alas, none of the 400+ State universities successfully stand out in their achievements – be it in language and literature, economics, technology and its use. The lone exception may be Punjab University which has come to the service of the community through its excellent rice production, successful fight against swarms of locusts, and also in the history of the Punjabi language. We have already referred to the work being done at the Jadavpur and Presidency Universities at Kolkata, and also the Osmania University at Hyderabad, in certain areas of science and technology, besides language, literature and economics should be mentioned. Private universities Recently, several non-profit private universities have been started and are doing excellent service in software sciences (Azim Premji University), genetics, molecular biology and virology, sociology and history (Ashoka University), and SRM University in Chennai and Amaravati. May there be more such private and non-governmental universities! dbala@lvpei.org  One outstanding institution founded in 1909 at Bangalore through the efforts of J.N. Tata and the Maharaja of Mysore is the Indian Institute of Science which has been spearheading research in science and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/universities-are-key-in-educating-the-young/article36801310.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A tiny plant that can ‘digest’ low density plastic sheets||Researchers from University of Madras and Presidency College, Chennai, have isolated an alga species that shows promise as an agent of biodegradation of plastic sheets. It is a preliminary study that has been published in Scientific Reports and needs further research and development before it can be translated to the industry. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s annual report for the year 2011-12, the plastic waste generated in a year amounted to 5.6 million metric tonnes. Only 60% of the plastic used in India was collected and recycled. The metros alone contributed some 21.2% of the total waste, led by Delhi, followed by Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai. The usual means of disposal of plastic waste involves incineration, land-filling and recycling. These methods have limitations and also sometimes produce side-effects that are hazardous to the environment. Hence, researchers are on the lookout for biodegradation methods that are safe and environment friendly. It is in this context that the present study gains importance. Common alga, epiphyte In earlier studies, species of bacteria that degrade plastic have been studied. In the present study, this role is played by the microalga Uronema africanum Borge. This is a species of microalgae that is commonly found in Africa, Asia and Europe. In Rangoon, Burma, it was noted to be an epiphyte, attaching itself to other algae and plants. Sanniyasi Elumalai, Professor in the Department of Biotechnology, University of Madras, and his graduate students Preethy P. Raj and Dinesh Kumar Gunasekar, along with post-doctoral fellow Rajesh Kanna Gopal from Presidency College, came upon a plastic bag which was colonised by, as they came to know later through study, three species of microalgae. “We collected a polyethylene carry bag colonised by green, luxuriously grown photosynthetic microalgae and samples of water,” says Prof. Elumalai. “Viewing the collected polyethylene sample under a light microscope showed that it was colonised by microalgae… Abrasions were seen on the surface of the polyethylene sheet at different magnifications.” Showed potential The samples were collected at the Kallukuttai lake area near Taramani railway station, in Chennai. When they did a closer examination of the microalgal growth, they found one species, Uronema africanum Borge, showed potential to degrade plastic.  They first had to identify which species the alga belonged to, and in this they were helped by Dr. B. Babu of Madras Christian College, Chennai, whom they acknowledge in the paper. In the experiments, they tested the microalga on low-density polyethylene, in sheets which are highly resistant to degradation, into simpler molecules. “We saw that the isolated algae Uronema africanum produced enzymes, hormones, and some polysaccharides which slowly degrade [the sheets], and the structural integrity of the polymer [breaks down] and it disintegrates into monomers,” says Prof. Elumalai. After incubation of the algae in the polyethylene sheet for thirty days, they noticed under the microscope that there were aberrations, grooves, ridges and furrows in the material of the sheets. Following it up with gas chromatography and mass spectrum analysis, they found that there was a huge difference in the composition of supernatant fluids of controls and experimental sample. Breaking down plastic “The microalgae produce different kinds of extra cellular polysaccharides, enzymes, toxins such as cyanotoxins, hormones which react with the polymer sheets (polymer bonds) and break them up into the simpler monomers which will not have harmful effect in the atmosphere,” says Prof Elumalai. In their analysis, the researchers used the facilities of Central Leather Research Institute, Chennai, and Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore. The researchers are planning to collaborate with industry to take up this technology in to a pilot scale and finally large-scale study.  When the collected polyethylene sample was viewed under a light microscope the researchers saw it was colonised by microalgae.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-tiny-plant-that-can-digest-low-density-plastic-sheets/article36801313.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||IAO Hanle: A promising astronomical observatory||The Indian Astronomical Observatory (IAO) located at Hanle near Leh in Ladakh is becoming one of the globally promising observatory sites, according to a recent study. This is due to its advantages of more clear nights, minimal light pollution, background aerosol concentration, extremely dry atmospheric condition and uninterrupted monsoon, the Department of Science and Technology said. The researchers used reanalysis data combined from assimilation and observation extending over 41 years, along with 21 years of data from satellites. The study classified the quality of observable nights for different astronomical usages like photometry and spectroscopy on a daily basis. Eight observatories They analysed datasets for the Indian Astronomical Observatory (IAO) in Hanle and Merak (Ladakh), and Devasthal (Nainital) in India, Ali Observatory in the Tibet Autonomous Region in China, South African Large Telescope in South Africa, University of Tokyo Atacama Observatory and Paranal in Chile, and the National Astronomical Observatory in Mexico. The research led by Dr. Shantikumar Singh Ningombam of Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA), Bengaluru, has been published in the Monthly Notices for Royal Astronomical Society . They found Paranal, in Chile, to be the best site in terms of clear skies with around 87% of clear nights in a year. IAO Hanle, and Ali observatories, which are located around 80 km from each other, are similar to each other in terms of clear night skies. They found that Devasthal has a slightly larger number of clear nights compared to the other sites in the subcontinent but are affected by monsoons for about three months in a year. However, night observations at IAO Hanle from 2m-Himalayan Chandra Telescope (HCT) are possible throughout the year without any interruption due to monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iao-hanle-a-promising-astronomical-observatory/article36801307.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Tougher than it looks||How can glass be made tougher for diverse applications? Inspired by the inner layer of mollusc shells, scientists at McGill University, Canada, have developed stronger and tougher glass (Science). The material does not shatter on impact and has the resiliency of plastic. Potential uses could be to improve cell phone screens in the future. The researchers combined and centrifuged glass flakes with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) to make a transparent composite. A transparent composite was created by doping the glass flakes to alter the refractive index of PMMA to increase the optical clarity and make it at par with glass. The new material is not only three times stronger than the normal glass, but also more than five times more fracture-resistant, says the university press release. The fabrication method is robust and scalable, and the composite may prove to be a glass alternative in diverse applications, the release adds. The scientists created the new glass and acrylic composite material that mimics nacre or mother of pearl. Nacre has the rigidity of a stiff material and durability of a soft material as it is made of stiff pieces of chalk-like matter that are layered with soft proteins that are highly elastic. The researchers mimicked the architecture of nacre by using layers of glass flakes and acrylic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tougher-than-it-looks/article36801311.ece
03 October 2021||Pune,||MVA alliance faces the civic poll test||While the ideologically opposed, tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance of the Shiv Sena, the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) judders along in Maharashtra, voiced favouring to “go it alone” for future polls are beginning to be heard. This is true at least in the Congress and Sena. In August this year, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Chief (MPCC) Nana Patole said his party would be contesting future polls alone. Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut echoed this for his party while speaking last week on civic body polls due next year. He said a joint contest depends on a “respectable seat sharing arrangement”. Observers and party sources say this rhetoric of contesting independently would be tested ahead of elections due in 10 major municipal corporations in the State next year. “Maharashtra’s civic polls had a number of instances of traditional allies — be it the Congress or the NCP, or the Sena and the BJP — fighting independently and even on occasion, joining hands with the opposition. National or State-level coalitions have rarely dictated the alliances forged at the civic level, which are guided more by local interests than larger party concerns,” said senior political analyst Vivek Bhavsar. The cash-rich Pune Municipal Corporation is a case in point. In what is now known as the ‘Pune Pattern’ of 2007 coalition, the NCP joined hands with Sena and BJP to keep the Congress out of power even though the NCP and the Congress were ruling partners in the State government. Heavy impact However, the resurgence of the BJP led by Narendra Modi at the Centre in 2014, and the BJP-Sena alliance government after the State Assembly polls that year, heavily impacted the outcome of the 2017 civic polls, especially in Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Of the ten civic bodies which went to polls that year, the BJP swept eight of them. For the first time, the saffron party had emerged triumphant in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies, breaking the NCP stranglehold. “The BJP’s performance in the 2017 civic body polls stunned the other parties. The Congress, which dominated the PMC till the mid-2000s, has its back to the wall. With less than ten corporators in Pune, it faces the threat of political oblivion. So, if the party is looking for a renaissance, it will have to contest as many of the 162 seats in the PMC and cannot abide by a seat-sharing formula in which the NCP will have the upper hand,” said a senior Congress leader, requesting anonymity. Echoing Mr. Patole’s thoughts, Pune Congress spokesperson Ramesh Iyer said contesting elections jointly with the NCP and the Sena was not in the interests of the party as it would undercut his party’s expansion in Pune and elsewhere. According to city-based political analyst Rajendra Pandharpure, the civic polls offered an ideal testing ground for all three MVA partners seeking to expand or reclaim their lost bases after 2017. “Ajit Pawar, in his capacity as Pune’s Guardian Minister, has already begun work to wrest back control in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC). It must be remembered that before PCMC polls, several of Mr. Pawar’s close aides had defected to BJP which had in turn helped the saffron party sweep the civic body. So, this time, he will be focused on rebuilding the party’s base and may not be inclined to share seats with the Congress and the Sena, both of which have no significant presence in the PCMC,” said Mr. Pandharpure. Likewise, the Sena, which got control of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) by a slender margin, will be going all out to re-assert its dominance there. ‘Trial by fire’ “For the Sena, retaining control of the BMC will be a trial by fire as it is the party’s lifeline, power base and its resource centre. It will be a straight fight between the Sena and the BJP, with its strong Gujarati voter base. The Sena will see no reason to share seats with the NCP, which has very little influence in Mumbai city while the Congress, which does have influence with the north Indian community, has already announced it would be fighting the BMC polls independently,” Mr. Bhavsar said. With each of the major MVA parties seeking to revitalise their bases and lock horns with the BJP, alliances for the upcoming civic polls point towards unpredictability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mva-alliance-faces-the-civic-poll-test/article36801758.ece
03 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha tribals bury their heads for living||Have you ever seen someone with their head buried in soil? While the very thought sends a chill down the spine, members of a community in Odisha perform this unthinkable act, which requires exceptional breath control, for a living. The community — Mundapota Kela (a denotified tribe) — is left with few members who earn a livelihood with this bizarre act. Hit badly by the pandemic, some of the last inheritors of the skills are now out on the streets more frequently than before to earn much-needed money. The Mundapota Kela community is believed to have migrated to Odisha from Rayalaseema area of Andhra Pradesh decades ago. Being street performers, they travel from one village to another and bury their heads in soil for several minutes. They collect rice, vegetables and money from villagers for putting up the show. However, the younger generation have not been able to pick up the breath control skills and have opted for begging and other odd jobs instead of risking their lives. Burying one’s head for even a couple of minutes carries life-threatening risks. A man digs up a pit into which his head can fit. Subsequently, he puts his head in the pit and piles the dug-out soil on to his head. His head remains completely invisible. “When I put my head in the pit, I have to be very careful about my eyes, ears, mouth and nose. Fine soil can enter into pores. While I close my eyes and mouth as soon as I pile soil on my head, my breath control helps me avoid letting in soil in my nose or ears,” said Murali Shikari, who hails from Nageswar village in Brahamagiri block of Puri district. Mr. Shikari and his brother-in-law are the only two left in Nageswar who can lie motionless on the road with their heads buried in soil. “Earlier, there was limited scope for entertainment for villagers. Our act used to attract massive crowds. Though we risk our lives for the act, we no longer catch the attention of people,” he said. Concrete roads Another peculiar problem the Mundapota Kela members face is that almost all village roads have been converted to concrete. It is difficult for them to dig a pit on concrete surfaces to perform their act. “The community is extremely poor. Not all members have their own houses. Till the 2001 Census, they were not enumerated as a Scheduled Caste. The small community is one of the most vulnerable population blocks among Dalit communities,” said Sandeep Pattnaik, who has conducted research on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-tribals-bury-their-heads-for-living/article36801874.ece
03 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam MLA detained for ‘provocative’ statement||The Assam police on Saturday detained Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed for his alleged provocative statement on the killing of eight Assamese youth in Darrang district during the peak of the anti-foreigners Assam Agitation in 1983. He had spoken out in the context of a violent eviction drive on September 23 in which two persons, including a minor, were killed in police firing. A senior police officer said Mr. Ahmed was picked up from his official residence in the Dispur area of Guwahati. “The MLA has been detained and could be arrested,” he said. The State Congress had served Mr. Ahmed a show-cause notice after his statement had triggered outrage. “…Despite holding a responsible position as an MLA, you have time and again given statements in media and in public forums against party policies and matters with communal overtones having great propensity to destroy the social harmony of our State,” the show-cause notice read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-mla-detained-for-provocative-statement/article36801875.ece
03 October 2021||Mumbai,||Retraction from promise to marry no ground for rape case, says HC||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court recently held that retraction from marriage cannot be grounds for rape. Quashing an FIR against a 32-year-old man, the court said, “merely because the man resiled from his promise to marry, no offence of rape is made out”. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Deshmukh and Nitin Suryawanshi was hearing a application filed by the accused seeking to quash the FIR registered against him under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code. It was based on a complaint by a 30-year-old woman in which she said that she and the man belonged to the same caste and got acquainted. . In 2016, when the woman was preparing for competitive exams at Parbhani, he used to come there and study with her. Soon thereafter, the accused got selected as a clerk in Mantralaya and went to Mumbai. They were in constant touch on the phone, and he used to go to meet her on weekends at Parbhani. He kept promising to marry her. In January 2018, she went to Mumbai to celebrate her birthday and they had sexual intercourse. The girl did not resist and after returning to Parbhani they continued to be in touch. However, one day his phone was switched off and she was not able to contact him for two months. She then registered an FIR. The court said, “The victim (woman) was taking precaution during sexual relations by taking oral pills. Later when the applicant (man) refused to marry the victim, she lodged the complaint. Admittedly, the victim has kept consensual physical relations with the applicant as per the narration in the FIR. Taking into consideration the uncontroverted allegations in the FIR without adding or subtracting anything, in our considered view, they do not make out an offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC against the applicant,” the court held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/retraction-from-promise-to-marry-no-ground-for-rape-case-says-hc/article36801877.ece
03 October 2021||October 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Toxic firecrackers||The story so far: The Supreme Court on September 29, 2021 observed that six major fireworks manufacturers had violated orders requiring them not to use prohibited chemicals such as Barium salts and to label the firecrackers in compliance with the law. In a warning to the manufacturers, the court felt that it had to take a balanced view of the production and use of firecrackers, because so much of it was being burst, and people could not be allowed to suffer and die from pollution. It directed the Environment Ministry to serve a copy of an inquiry report of the CBI, which found violations after conducting a court-ordered probe. The case has been posted for October 6. What did the Supreme Court rule three years ago? Three years ago, the court ruled out a full ban on firecrackers and issued orders stipulating that only reduced emission and green crackers be allowed, with tight restrictions on timings when they could be burst. The latest orders, in continuation of others, relate to a petition — Arjun Gopal and Others vs Union of India and Others — filed on behalf of three children in 2015, seeking measures to mitigate air pollution and asserting their right to clean air under Article 21 of the Constitution. What is the controversy? Firecrackers use fuel and oxidisers to produce a combustion reaction, and the resulting explosion spreads the material in a superheated state. The metal salts in the explosive mix get ‘excited’ and emit light. In an explanatory article on ‘The chemistry behind fireworks’, University of Pennsylvania inorganic chemist Eric Schelter says the interaction between the firecracker fuel and the oxidiser releases energy. Metals in the mix, which have a varying arrangement of electrons in shells outside their nucleus, produce different wavelengths of light in this reaction, generating spectacular colours. Barium compounds, for example, produce green light and Strontium and Lithium salts, red. But as many studies show, the burning of firecrackers is an unusual and peak source of pollution, made up of particles and gases. One study in Milan, Italy, quantified the increase in the levels of several elements in the air in one hour as 120 times for Strontium, 22 times for Magnesium, 12 times for Barium, 11 times for Potassium and six times for Copper. The Central Pollution Control Board conducted a study in Delhi in 2016, and found that the levels of Aluminium, Barium, Potassium, Sulphur, Iron and Strontium rose sharply on Deepavali night, from low to extremely high. For instance, Barium rose from 0.268 microgrammes per cubic metre to 95.954 mcg/m3. Similar episodic spikes have been recorded in China and the U.K. Pollution from firecrackers affects the health of people and animals, and aggravates the already poor ambient air quality in Indian cities. This has resulted in litigation calling for a total ban on firecrackers, and court orders to restrict the type of chemicals used as well as their volume. Many crackers also violate legal limits on sound. Can green crackers make a difference? The Central government says the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, through its National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI), Nagpur, has come out with firecrackers that have “reduced emission light and sound” and 30% less particulate matter using Potassium Nitrate as oxidant. These crackers are named Safe Water Releaser , which minimises Potassium Nitrate and Sulphur use, but matches the sound intensity of conventional crackers, Safe Minimal Aluminium , where Aluminium use is low and Safe Thermite Crackers with low Sulphur and Potassium Nitrate. These crackers are to be identified using unique QR codes to guide consumers. The Supreme Court had also previously ordered that the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation should certify the composition of fireworks only after being assured that they were not made of banned chemicals. What is the state of the industry? The petitioners argue that out of about 2,000 manufacturers, only 120 had the capacity and inclination to work with the court to green the crackers; the respondents, who are part of an industry that seeks light regulation because it provides jobs to many, must now present their case. Evidently, the new cracker formulations have not had many takers. Firecrackers are not labelled with information on the person responsible for legal compliance, as ordered by the court. At the recent hearing, the Supreme Court Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna took on record the CBI report and noted that there had been a “flagrant violation” of previous orders. It took note of the large volume of crackers burnt almost every day and felt inclined to fix responsibility. “If liability is fixed on the Commissioner of Police, only then can this happen,” it remarked.  The petitioners argue that of about 2,000 manufacturers, only 120 had the capacity and inclination to work with the court to green the crackers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toxic-firecrackers/article36801244.ece
03 October 2021||Mumbai,||Temple guest house operator held for rape||A 27-year-old guest house operator of a temple in Gujarat was arrested in connection with a rape case registered by Kandivali police in Mumbai, an official said on Saturday. Two others have already been arrested in this case, registered under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 provisions, the official said. “The accused is alleged to have raped the woman after promising to introduce her to the head priest of a temple,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/temple-guest-house-operator-held-for-rape/article36801871.ece
