04 October 2021||LUCKNOW/ New Delhi,||Four farmers killed as car in Minister’s convoy runs amok||Protests against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday took a grim turn with farmers groups alleging that at least four farmers were killed and several injured after they were deliberately run over by a car that was part of the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs and BJP MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. Four persons in the Minister’s convoy were killed in violence that followed, Kheri Additional SP Arun Kumar Singh said. Farmers in Tikonia area of Kheri had gheraoed the helipad at Maharaja Agrasen ground to prevent Mr. Maurya from landing, and the incident allegedly took place as the farmers were dispersing from the protest site. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella group representing the protesting farm unions said the one of the victims was shot, and identified the dead as Lovepreet Singh, 20, Nachattar Singh, 60, Daljeet Singh, 35, and Gurwinder Singh, 19. The SKM also alleged that the car was driven by the Union Minister’s son Ashish. Following the incident, angry farmers set on fire and vandalised vehicles of the BJP leader leading to the death of four persons. In a late evening statement, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was unfortunate, and the government would investigate the reasons for the incident, “unmask the elements” involved and take tough action against the guilty. ‘Driver attacked’ Union Minister Mishra claimed that his son was not present at the spot where the farmers were killed. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Mishra said, “My son was present on the stage where the function was being held, over 2,000 people were present, there is video evidence also. Had he been there (near the helipad where the killings took place), he would have also been lynched.” Mr. Mishra alleged that some anti-social elements from Nanpara village threw rocks at a vehicle that was going to receive Mr. Maurya, who was the chief guest at the function in the Minister’s ancestral village. “Stones came flying at the vehicle when it was on the way to receive the chief guest, the driver lost balance... and some could have died in that accident. My driver and three BJP workers who were in the vehicle were chased and attacked with rocks, sticks and swords… they were lynched,” Mr. Mishra said. The unions, however, denied there was any stone throwing by the farmers. Mr. Mishra said it was a lie. “Can it happen that there is no stone throwing and someone will run his vehicle over you? This a lie. Some cars that were attacked managed to escape and their windshields are also broken. Six-seven cars were damaged,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-farmers-killed-as-car-in-ministers-convoy-runs-amok/article36815803.ece
04 October 2021||Kolkata:,||Mamata wins Bhabanipur seat with a record margin||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee won the byelection in the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency on Sunday by a record margin of 58,835 votes against her nearest rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Priyanka Tibrewal. The victory makes Ms. Banerjee a member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly and will allow her to continue as Chief Minister of West Bengal. Earlier this year, she contested from Nandigram and lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari by a margin of 1,956 votes. She was unanimously elected Chief Minister by the Trinamool Congress Legislature Party in May 2021. Ms. Banerjee represented Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016. In May this year, Trinamool Congress’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay defeated BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh in Bhabanipur by a margin of 28,790 votes. “The numbers of voters at Bhabanipur are relatively less and about 1.15 lakh votes were polled this time. This time we have won by a margin of over 58,000 votes,” Ms. Banerjee told presspersons outside her residence. Highlighting that the margin of victory had surpassed all previous records, the Chief Minister said this time, she had won in every ward of the constituency. She pointed out that about 46% of the electorate which was “non-Bengali” had also overwhelmingly voted for her. Ms. Tibrewal secured 26,428 votes. Ms Banerjee secured 71.9% of all votes polled in the constituency while the BJP nominee secured about 22.29 % votes. TMC tally rises to 219 The Trinamool bagged Jangipur and Samserganj, where too byelections were held on September 30, taking its tally in the West Bengal Assembly to 219. West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar congratulated Ms. Banerjee on her victory. The Trinamool Congress chairperson also announced candidates for bypolls on four seats in the State where elections are scheduled on October 30. Mr. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had resigned from Bhabanipur to allow the Chief Minister to contest, will contest from Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas and Udayan Guha will contest from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district. The TMC has nominated Braj Kishor Goswami from Sanntipur and Subrata Mondal from Gosaba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-wins-bhabanipur-seat-with-a-record-margin/article36815797.ece
04 October 2021||Mumbai,||8 held after drug raid on cruise ship||Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and two others were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday following a drug bust on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Five others were arrested later. After their arrest, Mr. Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha were taken for medical tests to Sir J.J. Hospital. They were produced in court, which remanded them in the NCB custody till Monday. According to NCB officials, 13 g of cocaine, 5 g of MD, 21 g of charas and 22 pills of MDMA, and Rs. 1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship. Raids were conducted in the Belapur area of Navi Mumbai for information on suppliers. Five others — Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaiswal, Vikrant Chhoker and Gomit Chopra — were also detained for questioning following the late Saturday night operation conducted by NCB officials mid-sea on board Cordelia Cruises, which was on its way to Goa. All eight were booked under Sections 8 (c), 20 (b) and 27, read with 35 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Section 8 (c), 20 (b) deals with possession, purchase, sale, transport of drugs; Section 27 lays down punishment for consumption of drugs; and Section 35 deals with intention of dealing in drugs. Agency sources said a fortnight ago they got a tip-off about a party to be organised by a private lifestyle and fashion channel on the cruise to which many VIPs were invited. Following this, 22 NCB officials boarded the ship as guests. Over 1,800 guests were believed to be on board the ship and the NCB officials are also likely to call the organiser of the party for questioning, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-rukhs-son-among-8-held-after-drug-bust/article36815800.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Paediatricians see worrying trend in children due to pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic has kept a majority of children indoors for the last 18 months. With schools closed and little to no outdoor activity, paediatricians are seeing a worrying trend of children reporting symptoms of vitamin D deficiency, rise in obesity and a lack of social skills. “We are seeing older children with severe vitamin D deficiency. We recently saw a few adolescent girls with limb pain and gait disturbances of recent onset that was worrying parents. To our surprise, we found that vitamin D levels were extremely low. Children have been at home for the last one to one-and-a-half years. So, they have no exposure to sunlight,” said Janani Sankar, senior consultant, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital. Usually, vitamin D deficiency is uncommon in older children, she said, adding: “Children will have severe limb pain, difficulty in climbing stairs, squatting and bony deformities. Children need exposure to sunlight. They should go out and play in open areas. Though 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. is the best time for production of vitamin D in the skin, they can go out anytime to be exposed to sunlight. Parents being too paranoid about sending them out will not help.” Lack of activity Obesity in children was another side-effect of the pandemic. “We are seeing a lot of children with an average weight gain of 10 kg. This is because children do not go out and play. Their routine has been affected due to their lockdown lifestyle. Children wake up at 9 a.m. or 10 a.m. and do not empty their bowels. This leads to habitual constipation and retaining urine in the bladder, making them prone to urinary infection,” she said. Rema Chandramohan, professor of paediatrics, Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, said as far as the physical health of children was concerned, they found less respiratory infections as there was no mingling with their age group. “Respiratory infections have come down significantly but due to less activity, obesity has become a problem,” she said. The increase in screen time has unmasked eye problems, such as amblyopia, she said, adding, “This tends to be suppressed and managed and that is why we are suggesting eye check-ups for children. We are also seeing an increase in the number of foreign body ingestion as children are at home.” Another worrying effect is the lack of social skills, Dr. Janani Sankar pointed out. As Dr. Rema Chandramohan said several social factors were at play, with loss of family income due to the lockdown being one. “Children need to play, and in the absence of such exposure, they can throw temper tantrums. How long can you keep a child inside?” she said. Psychiatrists pointed out that there was a definite increase in addiction to gadgets among children. Staying at home had impacted interpersonal skills and communication of children. While doctors welcomed the State government’s move to reopen schools for students from November, they stressed on the need for COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and hand washing, as well as precautionary measures in light of dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paediatricians-see-worrying-trend-in-children-due-to-pandemic/article36815952.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Full-time physical classes for students of VI to X in Udupi from today||All schools in Udupi district will hold physical classes for students of VI to X the whole day from Monday. It is as per the directions of the State government. The Dakshina Kannada district administration is likely to take a decision in this regard on Monday. Udupi Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) N.H. Nagur said schools have been permitted to hold classes for VI to X between 10 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. Parents have been told to send tiffin boxes with them. “We are complying with wearing of masks and guidelines prescribed by the State government to run schools the whole day,” he said. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said many students are coming for physical classes held between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. since September 1. The test positivity rate in Udupi has been below 1% for over several days. With increase in vaccination and testing rate, the district hopes to reach zero test positivity rate shortly, he said. Dakshina Kannada DDPI Malleswamy said though the test positivity rate has been around 1% for the last few days, the Education Department is not considering holding full-day classes, as the test positivity rate was high in neighbouring Kasaragod district in Kerala. “We will be holding a meeting with Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday and take a decision on the issue,” he said. The schools presently continue to hold offline classes between 10 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. “The number of students are attending offline classes has been gradually increasing since September 17 and a very few are opting for online classes,” he said. Shivaprasad Shetty, president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association, said teachers have asked the district administration to allow holding offline classes for I to V. The teachers have also asked the State government to start mid-day meals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/full-time-physical-classes-for-students-of-vi-to-x-in-udupi-from-today/article36816249.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA/KADAPA,||TDP opts out of Badvel bypoll, BJP in the fray||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) resolved in its Polit Bureau meeting on Sunday not to contest the byelection for Badvel Assembly seat around the same time when the BJP decided to field its candidate (not yet finalised) against the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP)’s Sudha, wife of MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah whose death necessitated the bypoll. The TDP’s decision came a few days after Obulapuram Rajasekhar was chosen as its candidate. He had lost the election to Venkata Subbaiah in 2019. The Jana Sena Party (JSP) has already decided to stay away from the race. By doing so, it exposed the cracks in its alliance with the BJP, which has come under strain following the defeat in the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-opts-out-of-badvel-bypoll-bjp-in-the-fray/article36815799.ece
04 October 2021||BELAGAVI,||Eight taken into custody for murder||The railway police have taken eight people into custody for their alleged involvement in the murder of a 24-year-old car dealer from Khanapur over an alleged interfaith relationship. Arbaz Aftab Mulla was killed,allegedly by members of Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, who had complained to his mother that he was in love with a Hindu girl. His mutilated body was found on September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-taken-into-custody-for-murder/article36815844.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘No plans to cut syllabus this year’||The government has decided against cutting the syllabus for students of Classes I to X this academic year. B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said the decision was taken after consultations with teachers and stakeholders. However, many school managements say that a 15-20% cut in syllabus is more realistic. Education experts, too, say that schools should not focus on completing the syllabus, but instead ensure that children are taught foundational skills they may have lost out on during the previous year because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-plans-to-cut-syllabus-this-year/article36815846.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS borrowings close to Rs. 21,000 crore||The State government’s borrowings are close to Rs. 21,000 crore in the first five months of the current financial year. According to the monthly key indicators for August available with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, borrowings and liabilities of the State up to August reached Rs. 20,941.84 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-borrowings-close-to-rs-21000-crore/article36816108.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic grip eases||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-grip-eases/article36815850.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘No info on 2018 plan to collect OBC data’||The Office of the Registrar General of India (RGI) has said that deliberations and file notings regarding the Centre’s announcement in 2018 to collect data on Other Backward Classes (OBC) as part of Census 2021 is not available with it. The RGI, in its response to an Right to Information (RTI) query filed by The Hindu , added that  data on castes, communities and OBCs, other than the notified Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, are not collected in the Census. On August 31, 2018, the Ministry of Home Affairs announced that OBC data would be collected for the first time in the next Census. The press release, titled “Union Home Minister reviews preparation for Census 2021”, said: “It is also envisaged to collect data on OBC for the first time.” The first phase of 2021 Census, The House listing and Housing Census, to be conducted along with an update of the National Population Register from April 1, 2020, has been postponed due to the pandemic. The RGI, which works under the administrative control of the MHA, conducts the decennial Census exercise. In response to the RTI application pertaining toon the deliberations that took place in the RGI’s office before the announcement in 2018 to collect data on OBCs, the office replied: “The information sought in the RTI application is not available with the undersigned.” Decennial Census The reply added: “It may be informed that the Office of the RGI in MHA is conducting decennial population Census since 1951 in which it collects and publishes data on various socio-demographic profiles of the people of India including those of the notified Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) of all States and Union Territories. The data on the castes/communities/OBCs, other than the notified SCs and STs are not collected in Census.” It said the last Census was conducted in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-info-on-2018-plan-to-collect-obc-data/article36815801.ece
04 October 2021||bengaluru,||BJP shortlists bypoll candidates||The BJP core committee, which met on Sunday in the presence of Arun Singh, in-charge of party affairs in the State, shortlisted the candidates for the two bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi constituencies, scheduled to be held on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-shortlists-bypoll-candidates/article36815845.ece
04 October 2021||Neemuch/M.P.,||Mob vandalises religious place in Madhya Pradesh||A place of worship was damaged and its priest and a devotee were thrashed with sticks allegedly by two dozen masked people on suspicion of conversion at Jawad tehsil in Madhya Pradesh. The attackers left behind a pamphlet claiming the shrine was involved in converting Hindus to Islam. The attack lasted for four hours on Saturday, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mob-vandalises-religious-place-in-madhya-pradesh/article36815992.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU online admissions to begin today||Delhi University will start admissions to undergraduate courses under the first cut-off list from Monday. Students can apply from 10 a.m. on October 4 till 11.59 p.m. on October 6 on the admission portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-online-admissions-to-begin-today/article36815993.ece
04 October 2021||Patna,||Bihar bypolls: RJD, Cong. split over candidates||With the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) announcing names of party candidates on Sunday for the two bypolls in Bihar in the absence of leaders from the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) allies, the rift between the Congress and the RJD came to the fore for the first time after the 2020 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-bypolls-rjd-cong-split-over-candidates/article36815996.ece
04 October 2021||Imphal,||Manipur CM rules out leadership change||Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh has ruled out any change in leadership in the State ahead of the March 2022 Assembly election. The BJP’s central leadership had on October 1 summoned him, Minister T. Biswajit and State party president A. Sharda to New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-cm-rules-out-leadership-change/article36816203.ece
04 October 2021||Neemuch/M.P.,||Mob vandalises religious place in Madhya Pradesh||A place of worship was damaged and its priest and a devotee were thrashed with sticks allegedly by two dozen masked people on suspicion of conversion at Jawad tehsil in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mob-vandalises-religious-place-in-madhya-pradesh/article36816204.ece
04 October 2021||Patna,||Bihar bypolls: RJD, Cong. split over candidates||With the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) announcing names of party candidates on Sunday for the two bypolls in Bihar in the absence of leaders from the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) allies, the rift between the Congress and the RJD came to the fore for the first time after the 2020 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-bypolls-rjd-cong-split-over-candidates/article36816205.ece
04 October 2021||Neemuch/M.P.,||Mob vandalises religious place in Madhya Pradesh||A place of worship was damaged and its priest and a devotee were thrashed with sticks allegedly by two dozen masked people on suspicion of conversion at Jawad tehsil in Madhya Pradesh. The attackers left behind a pamphlet claiming the shrine was involved in converting Hindus to Islam. The attack lasted for four hours on Saturday, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mob-vandalises-religious-place-in-madhya-pradesh/article36816278.ece
04 October 2021||Patna,||Bihar bypolls: RJD, Cong. split over candidates||With the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) announcing names of party candidates on Sunday for the two bypolls in Bihar in the absence of leaders from the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) allies, the rift between the Congress and the RJD came to the fore for the first time after the 2020 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-bypolls-rjd-cong-split-over-candidates/article36816279.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress’ bid to woo women voters||The Karnataka Congress is making a serious bid to woo women voters in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly election, launching a programme called ‘Na Nayaki’ (I’m a leader) in all the constituencies of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-bid-to-woo-women-voters/article36816087.ece
04 October 2021||Chennai,||T.N. got less Cauvery water during June-Sept.||After four years, Tamil Nadu’s realisation of Cauvery river water in June-September has gone below the 100 tmc ft mark. The receipt was about 91.47 tmc ft, against the stipulated 123.14 tmc ft, leaving a shortfall of 31.67 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-got-less-cauvery-water-during-june-sept/article36815916.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||DRI pursuing leads on heroin seizure||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) is pursuing further leads in connection with the seizure of 3,000 kg of heroin at the port at Mundra in Gujarat last month to determine the identities of the masterminds behind the international drug trafficking syndicate. Ten of the accused, including six Afghan nationals and an Uzbek woman, have been arrested by the agency so far in the case. Two of the Afghan nationals were picked up from Shimla a few days ago. Investigations have so far indicated that the contraband was packed in Afghanistan and sent through a Kandahar-based company named Hassan Hussain Ltd. The consignment was declared as talc stones to be exported to Aashi Trading Company in Vijayawada, via the Bandar Abbas port, in Iran. “Usually, such consignments are transported from Afghanistan to the Bandar Abbas port by land route. In this case, we are trying to gather information on the exact route taken, and the modus operandi used, to smuggle the contraband. At the port, conduits are roped in by the drug traffickers to get necessary documents for cargo shipping,” an official said. It is suspected that the consignment was meant to be brought to Delhi for further transportation. The agency has questioned the accused persons to identify the ultimate intended recipients of the drugs. “There has been a spurt in the use of maritime routes by syndicates, mostly involving Pakistan-based elements, for smuggling huge quantities of heroin in the region. Large seizures are being made by the drug law enforcement agencies in India and Sri Lanka,” the official said. On September 10, the Sri Lanka Navy had intercepted a foreign fishing vessel carrying over 170 kg of heroin in international waters. Nine Pakistani nationals aboard the boat were held. The operation was carried out on the basis of information gathered following the seizure of about 290 kg of heroin on August 30, and then of 336 kg of heroin on September 4. Seven Pakistani nationals were earlier arrested by the Sri Lankan agencies and a “mother” ship was impounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dri-pursuing-leads-on-heroin-seizure/article36815696.ece
04 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD retains Pipili Assembly seat in Odisha by over 20,000 votes||The ruling Biju Janata Dal candidate Rudra Pratap Maharathy won the Pipili byelection in Odisha on Sunday, defeating Ashrit Pattnayak of the BJP by 20,916 votes in a straight fight. Mr. Maharathy polled 96,972 votes and Mr. Pattnayak 76,056 votes. The byelection was necessitated by the death of BJD MLA Pradip Moharathy from COVID-19 in October 2020. The BJD fielded his son in the seat, which Pradip Maharathy had won seven times. The BJD candidate secured 53.6% of the votes, leaving behind the BJP candidate at 42.04%. The constituency recorded the highest ever voter turnout of 78.24%. Congress candidate Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra fared miserably by managing to poll just 4,261 (2.36%) votes and losing the deposit. None of the rest of the seven candidates got 1% of the votes polled. The outcome will have no bearing on the BJD government as it enjoys a massive strength of 113 in the 147-member Assembly. The victory comes ahead of the crucial panchayat and civic body elections, which are likely to take place early next year. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, who has been hailed as the key factor in the success, did not campaign for Mr. Maharathy. On the other hand, senior BJP Minister and Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan held rallies for his party candidate. “I thank the people of Pipili for their huge support to Mr. Maharathy. I also congratulate all workers and leaders of the BJD,” Mr. Patnaik said. BJD workers began celebrations even as the counting was under way. Many Congress workers staged a demonstration in front of the party office here demanding the resignation of Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjd-retains-pipili-assembly-seat-in-odisha-by-over-20000-votes/article36815713.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chinese transgressions are testing India, say officials||The transgression by Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers at Barahoti in Uttarakhand in August is part of a pattern of large-size patrols by China to assert their claim while also testing India across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), say Defence Ministry officials. In this regard, there is a need for better operational synergy between the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), to avoid any surprises as in Galwan, which is presently severely lacking, Army and Defence officials said. The Army is set to raise the issue with the government, it has been learnt. Chinese transgression in the middle sector is not new but there is an increase in the number of PLA troops coming in. It is a pattern, two officials said. In the August incident, PLA troops came in from multiple locations within the Barahoti bowl, one of them said, adding that the last transgression in Barahoti was around the same time last year, but this time it was on a much higher scale. This area is one of the mutually agreed disputed areas on the LAC. Pre-emptive move Over 100 PLA troops, along with a large number of horses, came in about 4 km to 5 km inside the Barahoti ridgeline, across the Tun Jun La, which is the LAC in the area, and returned after a few hours, at least two officials confirmed. There are some makeshift wooden bridges constructed for Indian patrols to cross, they said. Against the backdrop of the development, the China Study Group met on Friday to discuss the development, it has been learnt. “One of the reasons for the increased number of troops in the Chinese patrols is to prevent any surprise, or avoid being overwhelmed by Indian troops in case there is a flare-up, as the Indian Army and the ITBP are located all along and close to the LAC. In contrast, the PLA’s base from the LAC in the Barahoti area is 30 km on their side and they will take time to respond,” another official said. This is especially so after the violent clash at Galwan last year which saw the first combat fatalities on the LAC in decades, the official said, while also noting that India’s infrastructure has vastly improved over the years. The Army is co-located with the ITBP at Rimkhim about 8 km from the LAC, but the responsibility of policing and patrols is with the ITBP, the officials noted. In many other places along the LAC too, patrolling duty and tasking is with the ITBP while the Army has bases all along, they said. Though the Army and the ITBP are co-located in many places, various pre-functions like rehearsing and area domination are presently not there, one of the officials said, stating that this causes delays in reacting to any contingency. “At such places, there is need for a joint mechanism. These operational linkages should be there,” the official stressed. The issue of giving operational control of the ITBP to the Army has been a matter of contention between the Defence and Home Ministries for a long time. The ITBP was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 war with China. It primarily guards the 3,488 km-long LAC and is under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Stating that all operational requirements of the ITBP are decided by the Army, a Home Ministry official, however, said the force maintains an independent chain of command and reports to the MHA. “They (the ITBP) act as parallel eyes and ears on the LAC,” the official said. As per data given by the Defence Ministry in 2019, there were 326 transgressions along the LAC by the PLA in 2018, 426 transgressions in 2017, and 273 transgressions in 2016. A third Defence official said the number of transgressions in 2019 was close to 600. The majority of the transgressions in the last five years are in the western sector, while there is an increasing trend of transgressions in the eastern and middle sectors, the official noted. Equipment build-up As reported by The Hindu last week, the PLA has set up surveillance equipment and cameras opposite Kio Dhura pass in the middle sector. Yellow-coloured balloon-shaped surveillance equipment is co-located with a windmill and solar panel at the site, according to intelligence inputs. On Saturday, during a visit to forward areas in eastern Ladakh, Army Chief General Manoj Naravane stated that China had deployed troops all across eastern Ladakh and the northern front, right up to India’s Eastern Command in the forward areas.  (with inputs from Vijaita Singh)   Chinese transgression in the middle sector is not new but there is an increase in the number of PLA troops coming in. It is a pattern Defence Ministry official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-transgressions-are-testing-india-say-officials/article36815727.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. demands Mishra’s resignation||Opposition parties across the political spectrum on Sunday slammed the ruling BJP and demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh where protesting farmers were allegedly crushed by a vehicle in which the son of the Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni was travelling. The parties demanded the resignation of Mr. Mishra even as several top leaders planned to visit the area on Monday for a ground assessment of the situation. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Deepender Hooda reached Lucknow on Sunday evening. They are scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi could also visit the area, while Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is expected to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday. ‘Register murder case’ The Congress also demanded that the Uttar Pradesh administration register a case of murder against Mr. Mishra’s son and all those who were responsible for the incident on Sunday. “Managed to have a short conversation with Tejinder Singh Virk ji , who was grievously injured in the incident in which BJP people crushed protesting farmers. In view of the serious nature of his injuries, the Uttar Pradesh government should provide him the best possible treatment. And the Chief Minister should immediately resign,” former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav tweeted. The Samajwadi Party said Mr. Yadav would also visit the area. Hate for farmers The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) announced that a local-level delegation would be there while a visit by Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary is also expected. “Those who remain silent even after seeing this inhuman massacre are already dead. But we will not let this sacrifice go in vain — ‘Long live Kisan Satyagraha’, Mr. Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag ‘Farmers Protest’.  “How much does BJP hate the farmers of the country? Don’t they have the right to live? If they raise their voice, they will be shot or crushed under a car. Enough. This is a country of farmers not the fiefdom of BJP’s brutal ideology. Farmers agitation will be strengthened further and their voice will be louder,” Ms. Vadra tweeted. “The incident in which several farmers, who were protesting against the three farm laws, were crushed by a vehicle that belonged to the son of a Union Minister is unfortunate. This displays the dictatorial and cruel face of the BJP,” BSP supremo Mayawati tweeted, adding, “The Supreme Court should take suo motu notice of the incident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-demands-mishras-resignation/article36815719.ece
04 October 2021||Srinagar,||First-ever retreat ceremony at Suchetgarh||With the ceasefire between India and Pakistan holding for eight months, the first-ever retreat ceremony at the Octroi Post on the International Border (IB) in Jammu’s Suchetgarh is a major push to promote border tourism in Jammu and Kashmir. “Our great nation believes in peaceful coexistence. Our security forces are vigilantly protecting the territorial integrity of the nation and effectively countering the nefarious conspiracies of the neighbouring country,” J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said, while inaugurating the ceremony on Saturday. The function was attended by hundreds of tourists and locals. “The ceremony on the lines of Amritsar’s Wagah border reflects the great legacy and valour of the Border Security Force, India’s first line of defence,” Mr. Sinha said. Tourism potential He said that with the beginning of the retreat ceremony, the long-pending demand of the people of Suchetgarh had been fulfilled. “Now, the tourism potential of Suchetgarh will be fully tapped, giving a fillip to the economic development of the area,” said the Lt. Governor. He said the Jammu and Kashmir government was making untiring efforts for inclusive growth and development of the Union Territory and transforming the lives of the people. Meanwhile, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti welcomed the decision to start the retreat ceremony at Suchetgarh. “Will certainly give a fillip to tourism and hope it’s taken further by using it as a trade and travel route between Suchetgarh and Sialkot. Such CBMs improve cross- border ties and benefit both sides economically too,” Ms. Mufti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-ever-retreat-ceremony-at-suchetgarh/article36815701.ece
04 October 2021||Patna,||RJD, Congress split over candidates for Bihar bypolls||With the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) announcing names of party candidates on Sunday for the two byelections in Bihar in the absence of leaders from the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) allies, the rift between the Congress and the RJD came to the fore for the first time after the 2020 Assembly election. The Congress had earlier announced that it would contest from the seat of Kusheshwar Asthan, which had been assigned to it in 2020. The bypolls are scheduled to be held on October 30. RJD State president Jagdanand Singh on Sunday announced the names of long-time party workers Ganesh Bharti and Arun Kumar Shah for the Kusheswar Asthan and Tarapur seats respectively. However, no leader from the Congress or any other alliance partners of mahagathbandhan were present during Mr. Singh’s announcement. “I’m not aware whether our top party leadership was consulted on the issue of candidates,” said senior State Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Singh. State party spokesperson Asit Nath Tiwari told presspersons, “The RJD has announced names of its own party candidates but Congress party, I think, has not been consulted over the issue. Let’s wait for some time and all will be clear”. RJD leader and party spokespersons Mrityunjay Tiwari, however, said, “Top leadership of both the parties must have consulted each other and only after that names of two candidates have been announced for the by-poll. These two candidates are from RJD but they have got the support of mahagathbandhan .” Recently, former Communist Party of India (CPI) leader from Bihar Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress and the buzz in political circles of the State has been that the move might have not gone down well with the mahagathbandhan allies. Mr. Kumar had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Begusarai seat to the BJP’s Giriraj Singh. State Congress leaders had said that with the entry of Mr. Kumar, the party would be “strengthened” in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-congress-split-over-candidates-for-bihar-bypolls/article36815711.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||SC to hear plea on oxygen shortage||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a high-level inquiry by a commission into the alleged non-supply and non-availability of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic from March to May this year. The petition, which is scheduled to be taken up for hearing on Monday by a Bench of justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B. V. Nagarathna, has alleged that non-availability of medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic had resulted in the death of several patients. The plea, filed by a Delhi resident, has also urged the apex court to direct a court-monitored inquiry by the CBI or any other investigating agency in the matter relating to non-availability of medical oxygen in the months of March to May this year. It has sought a high-level inquiry by a commission headed by a retired judge of the apex court or retired Chief Justice of any High Court in the matter. Identify negligence It said that the inquiry would identify negligence on the part of officials, if any. The plea has arrayed the Centre and others, including the National Disaster Management Authority and Health Departments of several States, as respondents. “This court through its various judgements has logically extended the interpretation of the right to life to include the right to health,” the plea read. “Therefore, it is the fundamental duty of the State to care for the health of the public at large,” the petitioner has said. The plea said medical oxygen is an essential and critical life-saving drug and its shortage had resulted in several untimely deaths in the country during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-plea-on-oxygen-shortage/article36815738.ece
04 October 2021||Chandigarh/ New Delhi,||New DGP after consulting Sidhu: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said that a new Director-General of Police (DGP) would be appointed soon in consultation with the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other Ministers. His comments came hours after Mr. Sidhu had tweeted that DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and Advocate-General (AG) Amar Preet Singh Deol must be replaced as their appointments are like “rubbing salt on the wounds of the victims of the sacrilege issue”. The tweet comes just days after the Chief Minister reached out to him for a compromise after Mr. Sidhu sprang a surprise by resigning as the PCC chief to protest against these appointments. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a government programme to announce debt waiver for farm labourers and landless farmers, the Chief Minister said, as mandated by law, the State government has already forwarded the names of all senior police officers with 30 years of experience to the Centre. Now, it is awaiting the Centre’s clearance to a panel of three names from which the new DGP would be appointed, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office said. The name would be finalised after consultation with Mr. Sidhu, all the minister and MLAs, it added. Mr. Channi also told presspersons that a coordination committee has been constituted for better coordination between the government and the PCC. Earlier, Mr. Sidhu had tweeted that not replacing the DGP and the Advocate General would leave the Congress with “no face”. “Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face.” In an attempt to placate him, the Channi government appointed R.S. Bains as Special Public Prosecutor to handle all the sacrilege-related cases. However, Mr. Sidhu, whose status as the PCC chief is still not clear as he has not formally withdrawn his resignation, seemed to harden his stance a day after his tweet that he would stand by the Gandhis, “post or no post”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-dgp-after-consulting-sidhu-channi/article36815721.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rethink quarantine norms for British visitors, say exporters||Even as the 10-day quarantine norm for British nationals kicks in on Monday, a leading export promotion body has urged the government for a rethink as it could curtail the entry of U.K. buyers and hit new orders just when business is returning to some normalcy. The Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts (EPCH) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, signalling that the mandatory quarantine for visiting British nationals could hurt efforts to attain the government’s record $400 billion target for exports this year. The U.K. is the largest export market for India’s handicraft exports, which stood at Rs. 25,680 crore in 2020-21, recording a growth even in the COVID-19 pandemic hit-year, as per EPCH data. This does not include handmade carpets, where India accounts for 40% of total world exports. Carpet exports in 2020-21 were almost $1.5 billion. “We would like to draw your attention towards the recent policy decision… being implemented in response to the similar measure being applied on Indian nationals arriving in Britain,” EPCH Chairman R.K. Malhotra said in a communique to the PM, seeking a carve-out from the new norms for business visitors. The decision could adversely impact the Council’s bi-annual flagship programme to attract overseas buyers and secure new orders, the Indian Handicrafts and Gifts Fair, scheduled to take place from October 28 to 31, Mr. Malhotra indicated. Over 1,500 overseas buyers are expected to attend the first such physical exhibition since the pandemic’s onset, which would also see orders being placed for the Christmas gifting season. “In order to achieve the Government of India’s target of $400 billion of merchandise exports this year, it is important that the physical activities for business exhibitions and buyer-seller meets are organised so as to encourage in-person visit to these events and business is transacted,” the EPCH Chairman noted. “Keeping in view the same, it is requested that the mandatory quarantine may kindly be exempted for British nationals who are travelling to India on a business visa specifically to source from Indian exhibitions,” he concluded, pinning exporters’ hopes on “a positive consideration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rethink-quarantine-norms-for-british-visitors-say-exporters/article36815703.ece
04 October 2021||Colombo,||Shringla visits Trincomalee oil tank farm||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Sunday visited the Second World War-era oil storage facility in the strategically important port district of Trincomalee on Sri Lanka’s east coast, which has been a key bilateral economic partnership link for decades. The Trincomalee harbour, one of the deepest natural harbours in the world, was developed by the British during the War. Since 2003, the Lanka IOC, the Sri Lankan subsidiary of India’s oil major Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), has the leasing rights to 99 tanks at the facility for a period of 35 years for an annual payment of $100,000. According to the Indian High Commission, the LIOC briefed Mr. Shringla about the developments undertaken at the tank farm “and the possibilities for further strengthening India and Sri Lanka energy partnership to enhance Sri Lanka’s energy security”. His visit to the site assumes significance as oil sector trade unions in Sri Lanka have demanded that tanks be brought under the control of the state fuel entity Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC). As per the agreement, the IOC was also given a one-third share of the Sri Lankan government entity, Petroleum Storage Limited. However, the CPC trade unions had been pressing for the takeover of the tanks. CPC’s demands Initially, the CPC wanted to develop 25 of the tanks by investing $25-30 million. The CPC maintains that it will allow them to strengthen their oil storage and distribution in the north and eastern provinces while allowing stock maintenance to suffice 2-3 months. Mr. Shringla arrived in Sri Lanka on Saturday on a four-day visit during which he will meet the top leadership, including President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and the Prime Minister , and review the bilateral ties between India and the island nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-visits-trincomalee-oil-tank-farm/article36815736.ece
04 October 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya Congress averts crisis for now||The Congress in Meghalaya appears to have averted a crisis ahead of the byelections to three Assembly seats. Former Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Mukul M. Sangma and Lok Sabha member Vincent H. Pala had reportedly been avoiding each other since the latter was appointed the State party president a month ago. Dr. Sangma’s statement that the party leadership did not consult him on the appointment had triggered speculation of a rift within the Meghalaya Congress. The murmurs grew louder when he met Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata less than a fortnight ago. But on Saturday, the two leaders came together for the election meeting and decided to work together for the candidates to be nominated by the central leadership. The byelections to the Mawphlang, Mawryngkneng and Rajabala seats will be held on October 30. The central leadership on Sunday nam- ed Kennedy C. Khyriem, Highlander Kharmalki and Hashina Yasmin Mondal as the candidates for the three seats. “We are fielding the best candidates. People in the State have seen the performance of the government. Our base in each and every area is much better than that of the other parties,” Mr. Pala said, adding that Dr. Sangma’s strategic inputs would be of value to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-congress-averts-crisis-for-now/article36815716.ece
04 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gandhinagar municipal elections held||More than 50% voting was registered in the municipal elections in Gujarat’s capital Gandhinagar on Sunday. The voting for the civic elections was held to elect 44 municipal councillors for 11 wards, each having four councillors, including two women members. Provisional figures from the State Election Commission indicated a turnout of around 52%, with a total of 2.8 lakh registered voters eligible to cast their votes. Heeraben, the 99-year-old mother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also cast her vote along with her family. For the first time in Gujarat, the civic body polls saw a tripartite contest with the entry of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the electoral fray. The fight has traditionally been between the BJP and the Congress. Leaders of all three parties expressed confidence in securing victory after the voting was completed. During the day-long voting, a few incidents of alleged irregularities in the voting process were reported, including one bogus voting incident, and one incident in which people were reportedly prevented from exercising their franchise.  Voting was also held for the Bhanvad, Okha and Thara municipalities, and by-elections for a few seats in the Ahmedabad and Junagadh municipal corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhinagar-municipal-elections-held/article36815718.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gaming disorder increases during pandemic||Anand*, a jovial extroverted 15-year-old in Bengaluru, got a personal smartphone for the first time last year when online classes began. Within six months, he was on the phone for more than seven hours each day, not for classes but rather to binge on online games. Worried about the sudden behaviour changes in their teenager — insomnia, withdrawal from social contacts, academic failure, and extreme anger and irritability — his parents took him to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences’ (NIMHANS) aptly named SHUT clinic or the Service for Healthy Use of Technology. Their son was diagnosed with gaming addiction, a disorder that is quickly growing as the pandemic spurred an increased use of Internet devices. “We used to get maybe two or three cases a week. Now, we are seeing about 15 cases, almost all of whom are adolescents brought in by their parents,” said SHUT clinic coordinator Manoj Sharma, a clinical psychology professor at NIMHANS. According to the All India Gaming Federation, India’s online gaming industry is expected to be worth Rs. 15,500 crore by 2023. A 2019 survey by the U.S.-based Limelight Networks found that India had the second largest number of gamers after South Korea. The World Health Organization categorised gaming disorder as a mental health condition in 2018. Last month, China limited gamers under 18 years to just three hours of online games per week, during specified times, and made the industry responsible for enforcing the restriction. Legal move In India, legal focus has been on recent laws in the southern States seeking to ban online games such as rummy, poker or even fantasy sports which offer prize money or financial stakes. Last week, the Kerala High Court quashed such a law in the State, accepting the industry’s stance that, as games of skill rather than chance, they should not trigger bans on gambling. However, worried parents, psychiatrists and mental health advocates warn that the dangers go well beyond monetary motivations. “We have seen gaming addictions cause physical, social and emotional damage, impairing sleep, appetites, careers and social lives,” says Samir Parikh, who heads the mental health department at Fortis Healthcare. NIMHANS’ Dr. Sharma and fellow researchers published a case study in the Industrial Psychiatry Journal last year, illustrating the “pathways of migration from gaming to gambling”. They found that a 14-year-old addicted to online games without monetary rewards later became addicted to online poker with financial stakes in his early 20s. “Individuals who played more social casino games (online games where you do not either bet or win or lose real money) and won occasionally, usually developed a craving and urge for betting real money in the anticipation of winning,” said the paper. Psychiatrists recommend that as a bare minimum, statutory warnings and mandatory breaks should be enforced to prevent binge gaming. “Among those who are just beginning excessive use, enforcing breaks after a stipulated time will improve control and prevent bingeing. But among those already addicted, it may not help, as they will just log on a different platform or using a different user name,” said Dr. Sharma. Media literacy in schools and digital fasting among families are also important steps to combat the disorder, Dr. Sharma said.  (*Name changed to protect privacy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gaming-disorder-increases-during-pandemic/article36815848.ece
04 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||British-era bungalow is home to Brahmaputra heritage centre||A British-era bungalow on a hillock that used to be the 17th century military office of the Ahom rulers has been converted into a heritage centre depicting life along the Brahmaputra. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday inaugurated the Mahabahu Brahmaputra River Heritage Centre on Guwahati’s Barphukanar Tila, meaning Barphukan’s Hillock. A Scottish-type wooden bungalow standing since 1850 was renovated and converted into the heritage centre. Barpukhan was a post equivalent to Governor General created by Ahom king Pratap Simha or Susengpha (1603-1641). The hillock by the Brahmaputra, mentioned in ancient scriptures as Mandrachal, was from where Ahom General Lachit Barpukhan launched the Battle of Saraighat in March 1671 to inflict the most crushing defeat on the Mughals. Saraighat is regarded as the “greatest naval battle ever fought in a river”. Captain Archibald Bogle, posted as the Assistant Commissioner and Collector of Kamrup district in the 1850s, had the bungalow built. Post-Independence, it continued to be the Deputy Commissioner’s Bungalow until 2011. Significance of rivers “Standing as a grand tribute to the majestic river and capturing its significance to the region, the Brahmaputra River Heritage Centre has been set up in a nearly 150-year-old bungalow after an elaborate restoration,” Mr. Naidu said. He called for a national campaign for rejuvenating Indian rivers and the inclusion of lessons on water conservation in the school curricula. The centre has on display the history of the Battle of Saraighat, the heritage of Assamese war boats, an amphitheatre, an exhibition space, a cafeteria and two viewing decks. The other attractions include a collection of traditional fishing equipment, photographs and artefacts related to the history of Guwahati and river transport, installations depicting the textile designs, ethnic motifs and indigenous musical instruments of communities inhabiting the banks of the Brahmaputra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/british-era-bungalow-turns-brahmaputra-heritage-centre/article36815734.ece
04 October 2021||Imphal,||Manipur CM rules out leadership change||Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh has ruled out any change in leadership in the State ahead of the March 2022 Assembly election. The BJP’s central leadership had on October 1 summoned him, Minister T. Biswajit and State party president A. Sharda to New Delhi. Mr. Singh told a local news channel that they were summoned for chalking out the election strategy. The summoning had set tongues wagging as most of Manipur’s tribal MLAs have been camping in Delhi. They are said to be unhappy that the Autonomous District Council Bill, 2021, recommended by the Hill Areas Committee — a statutory body — was not tabled during the monsoon session of the Assembly. The All Tribal Students’ Union, Manipur, had boycotted the ‘Go to hills’ programme that Mr. Singh had launched for the development of the hills on a par with the Imphal Valley. The tribes inhabit the hills while the valley is dominated by the non-tribals. The Chief Minister said he was not surprised by the speculation about a change in leadership. “People have been talking about a change of guard during the four-and-a-half years of my tenure,” he told the channel. While Mr. Singh’s supporters say the ‘Go to hills’ programme is pragmatic, some tribal groups have sniffed in it a ploy to usurp tribal land. Several tribal organisations have also been miffed by the kidnapping and murder of Athuan Abonmei, a social activist who belonged to the Zeliangrong tribe, on September 22. The police have arrested two suspects in connection with the murder. Former Minister Okram Joy, demanding a probe by the National Investigation Agency into the case, had said the Chief Minister should step down for the sake of a transparent and speedy probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-cm-rules-out-leadership-change/article36815715.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Gaming disorder on the rise during pandemic||NIMHANS’ Dr. Sharma and fellow researchers published a case study in the Industrial Psychiatry Journal last year, illustrating the “pathways of migration from gaming to gambling”. “Individuals who played more social casino games (online games where you do not either bet or win or lose real money) and won occasionally, usually developed a craving and urge for betting real money,” said the paper. Psychiatrists recommend that as a bare minimum, statutory warnings and mandatory breaks should be enforced to prevent binge gaming. Media literacy in schools and digital fasting among families are also important steps, Dr. Sharma said.  (*Name changed to protect privacy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gaming-disorder-on-the-rise-during-pandemic/article36815784.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata wins bypoll with record margin||Highlighting that the margin of victory had surpassed all previous records, the Chief Minister said this time, she had won in every ward of the constituency. She pointed out that about 46% of the electorate which was “non-Bengali” had also overwhelmingly voted for her. Ms. Tibrewal secured about 26,428 votes. Ms Banerjee got 71.9% of all votes polled in the constituency while the BJP nominee secured about 22.29% votes. Elections to Bhabanipur and two other constituencies Jangipur and Samserganj were held on September 30. The Trinamool bagged Jangipur and Samserganj, where too bypolls were held on September 30, taking its tally in the West Bengal Assembly to 219. Amirul Islam won Samserganj with a margin of 26,379 votes, defeating his nearest rival from the Congress. At Jangipur, the Trinamool’s Jakir Hussain defeated the BJP candidate by a margin over 92,480 votes. Four legislators from the BJP had defected to the Trinamool. West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar congratulated Ms. Banerjee on her victory. Mr. Majumdar thanked the voters who voted for the BJP at Bhabanipur and said only 57% of the voters had exercised their franchise. The Trinamool Congress chairperson also announced candidates for bypolls in four seats in the State where elections are scheduled on October 30. Mr. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had resigned from Bhabanipur to allow the Chief Minister to contest, will contest from Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas and Udayan Guha will contest from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district. The Trinamool has nominated Braj Kishor Goswami from Sanntipur and Subrata Mondal from Gosaba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-wins-bypoll-with-record-margin/article36815692.ece
04 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana CM’s video kicks up a controversy||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Sunday courted fresh controversy over his advice to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre to take tit-for-tat action against the farmers in the State opposing the three farm laws and not mind spending a few months in jail. In an over one-minute-long video that went viral on social media platforms, Mr. Lal, in an interaction with the BJP cadre, is seen advising them to raise groups of 500-700 volunteers armed with lathis in each district of north and west Haryana and retaliate against the farmers protesting against the laws. “Tit-for-tat. Pick up the lathis,” chuckled Mr. Lal, amid faint laughter from the audience. He also advised the cadre not to worry about securing bail if they decided to retaliate. “If you stay inside [in jail] for a few months, you will learn more than what you learn at these meetings,” said Mr. Lal, interacting with the State Kisan Morcha leaders of the party, amid applause. State Congress chief Kumari Selja slammed the Chief Minister for “publicly provoking people against the agitating farmers and endorsing violence”. “If this is unedited video, is this the true face, character and plan of the Bharatiya Janata Party?” she asked in a tweet. Farmers seek apology The Samyukt Kisan Morcha demanded that the Chief Minister step down and tender an apology. “It is clear where officials like Ayush Sinha (who purportedly directed police personnel to “crack the heads” of anybody trying to cross the barricades during a protest by farmers in August) get their impunity from,” it said. Mr. Lal’s media adviser in a statement claimed that only a portion of the video was being circulated to create a wrong impression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-cms-video-kicks-up-a-controversy/article36815695.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Four farmers killed in U.P. as car runs amok||When asked why there was no police action, since it was a VIP function, Mr. Mishra said, “There was an understanding that farmers will protest peacefully, they will show black flags, it is their democratic right. But anti-social elements got mixed with the farmers and attacked the vehicles.” Mr. Mishra, also known as Teni, said he had invited Mr. Maurya as the chief guest at the annual wrestling event in his village, the Ambika Prasad Mishra Smriti Kushti Pratiyogita. Denying the Minister’s allegations that the incident began when a stone thrown by protestors hit the driver, Jai Kisan Andolan founder Yogendra Yadav said, “There was no provocation whatsoever by the farmers. There was no stone throwing. This is completely false.” Mr Yadav was citing eyewitness reports of farmers on the scene. The SKM said around 10 farmers, including SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk, were seriously injured in the incident. In a virtual press conference in the evening, the SKM outlined three immediate demands. “One, Ajay Kumar Mishra should be immediately removed from the Council of Ministers. Two, an FIR under Section 302 should be registered immediately against his son and the other goons he brought with him. Three, the case should be investigated by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court,” said Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal. The SKM has also called on farmers across the country to protest peacefully in front of district magistrates offices between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. tomorrow. Responding to the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the incident had exposed the “cruel and undemocratic face of the government.” Before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri, Mr Tikait said the government should not “test the patience of farmers”. He also appealed to farmers to maintain peace.  (With inputs from Priscilla Jebaraj, Anuj Kumar in Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-farmers-killed-as-car-runs-amok/article36815697.ece
04 October 2021||Srinagar,||NIA searches premises of cross-LoC traders||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday carried out multiple searches on the residences of several traders associated with the cross-Line of Control (LoC) trade in Poonch district of the Pir Panjal valley. A NIA spokesman said teams of the agency, with the assistance of the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the Central Reserve Police Force and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, searched nine locations. “The searches were conducted on the premises of the suspected LoC traders in relation to a case filed in 2016,” the spokesman said. The NIA said it seized documents, digital devices and other incriminating materials. “Further investigation in the case continues,” it said. The case was registered on December 09, 2016 under Section 17 of the UA(P) Act, 1967 after the reports of misuse of the cross-LoC trade routes by militants and their supporters. “Investigation into the case has revealed that some of the traders having excess imports were channelising the surplus profit generated to terror organisations while others are suspected to have links or connections with proscribed terrorist organisations,” the NIA spokesman said. However, no arrests were made on Sunday. The NIA says the current case is of large-scale transfer of funds from Pakistan to India through the import of California almonds and other items via the trade facilitation centres at Salamabad, Uri, in Baramulla and Chakkan-Da-Bag, in Poonch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-searches-premises-of-cross-loc-traders/article36815702.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No info on 2018 plan to collect OBC data’||In response to the RTI application on the deliberations that took place in the RGI’s office before the announcement in 2018 to collect data on OBCs, the office replied: “The information sought in the RTI application is not available with the undersigned.” The reply added: “It may be informed that the Office of the RGI in MHA is conducting decennial population Census since 1951 in which it collects and publishes data on various socio-demographic profiles of the people of India including those of the notified Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) of all States and Union Territories. The data on the castes/communities/OBCs, other than the notified SCs and STs are not collected in Census.” It said the last Census was conducted in 2011. The Centre filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court on September 23 where it ruled out conducting a Socio-Economic Caste Census, stating that caste census was unfeasible, “administratively difficult and cumbersome”. The SECC that was first conducted in 2011 and collected data of 130 crore Indians threw up 46 lakh different caste names whereas the total number of castes as per the last caste census of 1931 was 4,147 at the national level. Owing to the flaws in the data set, government has refused to make public even the raw caste data of the SECC-2011. The SECC-2011 collected data of all castes and not only OBCs. There are separate OBC lists at the State-level and the Centre for reservation in government jobs and education. Several political parties, including the ruling BJP’s ally — the JD(U) in Bihar, have been demanding an OBC census.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-info-on-2018-plan-to-collect-obc-data/article36815706.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Eight persons held after drug raid on cruise ship||According to NCB officials, 13 g of cocaine, 5 g of MD, 21 g of charas and 22 pills of MDMA, and Rs. 1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship. Raids were conducted in the Belapur area of Navi Mumbai for information on suppliers. Five others — Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaiswal, Vikrant Chhoker and Gomit Chopra — were also detained for questioning following the late Saturday night operation conducted by NCB officials mid-sea on board Cordelia Cruises, which was on its way to Goa.  Agency sources said a fortnight ago they got a tip-off about a party to be organised by a private lifestyle and fashion channel on the cruise to which many VIPs were invited. Following this, 22 NCB officials boarded the ship as guests. Over 1,800 guests were believed to be on board the ship and the NCB officials are also likely to call the organiser of the party for questioning, the sources said. “The whole case will have different layers and this is just the first layer. In coming days, more people could be detained,” said NCB chief S.N. Pradhan. CEO clarifies Meanwhile, Jurgen Bailom, CEO and president, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt. Ltd., said, “By means of this statement, I wish to express that Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company. We, at Cordelia Cruises, condemn all acts such as these.”  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-persons-held-after-drug-bust-on-cruise-ship/article36815707.ece
04 October 2021||Patna,||Tej Pratap says Lalu being held captive in Delhi||RJD president Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has caused a flutter with the claim that his father was being held “captive” and prevented from returning to Bihar despite having been released from jail. Mr. Tej Pratap made the comment on Saturday when he said the captors of his father, who is convalescing in Delhi since his release from Ranchi jail a few months ago, were “four or five people” he did not wish to name.   The BJP latched on to Mr. Tej Pratap’s utterances, insisting that he was hinting at Tejashwi, his younger brother and the heir apparent to Mr. Lalu Prasad.  Mr. Tejashwi, however, dismissed the contention with disdain on Sunday. The RJD leader asserted that “to say Lalu is bandhak (in captivity) simply does not go with his personality. He is a man who has served as the Chief Minister of Bihar and the country’s Railway Minister. He was the one who had got L.K. Advani arrested”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tej-pratap-says-lalu-being-held-captive-in-delhi/article36815708.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/getting-ready/article36815694.ece
04 October 2021||Gopeshwar/Uttarkashi,||Bodies of 4 climbers reach Joshimath||The bodies of four Navy mountaineers, who went missing after getting caught in an avalanche near the summit of Mount Trishul in Uttarakhand, were brought to Joshimath from Chamoli district on Sunday. Officials said the mortal remains will be sent to their native places after a post-mortem. The bodies of Lt. Cdr. Rajnikant Yadav, Lt. Cdr. Yogesh Tiwari, Lt. Cdr. Anant Kukreti and MCPO Hariom have been kept at the Army camp in Joshimath, the Army said. One of the mountaineers and the porter are still missing. A search is under way to find them. According to the officials, search and rescue operations could not be carried out on Friday due to bad weather. The four bodies were spotted by the rescue team on Saturday and retrieved on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bodies-of-4-climbers-reach-joshimath/article36815698.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Two held for cow slaughter in Delhi||Two men allegedly involved in cow slaughter were arrested after a brief encounter in north Delhi’s Civil Lines area, the police said on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off, a trap was laid near the Hindu Rao Hospital here on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, and both the accused were arrested, they said. One of the accused, Mohammad Javed, 29, was involved in cow slaughter cases and had also attacked the police earlier, while his co-accused, Mohammad Shamim, 30, is a contractual employee in a government department, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-cow-slaughter-in-delhi/article36815785.ece
04 October 2021||Srinagar,||Probe on into J&K temple vandalism||The Jammu and Kashmir police have started a probe into an incident of desecration and vandalism of a temple in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on October 2. “A senior police officer is looking into the incident,” an official told The Hindu.  The police have lodged an FIR into the act of vandalism under Section 295, 427 of the Indian Penal Code. A picture of the Mata Bargah Shakha Temple, located near the sun temple at Martand in Anantnag, went viral online on October 2. It showed a portion of the temple damaged from inside by unknown miscreants. The incident evoked protests from Kashmiri Pandits. Several migrant Pandits living in the Jagti Township of Jammu also protested against the incident and described it as “an act of cowardice”. Jammu and Kashmir’s regional political parties have also condemned the incident. “Pained and disturbed by reports of malicious damage and vandalism at the Mata temple in Mattan. Need of the hour is to reassure our Pandit brethren. Request SSP Anantnag & DC Anantnag to look into the matter immediately,” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet. National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah termed the act as “unacceptable”. “I strongly condemn this vandalism and urge the administration, especially the police, to identify the culprits so they can be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” Mr. Abdullah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-on-into-jk-temple-vandalism/article36815699.ece
04 October 2021||Mumbai,||BJP fields ex-Sena MLA for bypoll||Former Shiv Sena MLA Subhash Sabne will be the BJP candidate for the byelection to the Deglur-Biloli Assembly seat in Nanded district. The byelection was necessitated by the death of sitting Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar. “I congratulate Subhash Sabne over the candidature. We are certain that people will vote for him and the BJP will repeat the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha byelection result where we defeated the Maha Vikas Aghadi candidate,” Chandrakant Patil, Maharashtra State BJP chief, said. Antapurkar had defeated Mr. Sabne in the 2019 Assembly election. “I have nothing against Uddhav ji . But Ashok Chavan of the Congress is working like a dictator. He is sidelining Shiv Sena and NCP leaders in the constituency. He is trying to finish off the Sena in Nanded district and I cannot let this happen,” Mr. Sabne said. He claimed that the Sena had helped the Congress survive in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-fields-ex-sena-mla-for-bypoll/article36815709.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Zydus wants Rs. 1,900 for its vaccine||With talks under way between the Central government and Zydus Cadila over the pricing of the COVID-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the pharma company is learnt to have proposed Rs. 1,900 for its three-dose jab that can be given to those above 12 years of age. However, the government is negotiating for a reduction in price and a final decision on it is likely to be taken this week, sources in the know of the developments said. The government had on Thursday said the indigenously developed, world’s first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive shortly. “The company has proposed the price inclusive of taxes. Negotiations are on. The company has been asked to reconsider all the aspects regarding the cost of the vaccine. A final decision is likely to be taken this week,” a source said. Another source said the ZyCoV-D has to be differently priced from Covaxin and Covishield as, apart from being a three-dose vaccine, there is a needle-free jet injector used for administering the vaccine that costs Rs. 30,000. That jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses. The vaccine is to be given on days zero, 28 and 56.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zydus-wants-rs-1900-for-its-vaccine/article36815722.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol, diesel prices raised yet again||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Sunday to send rates soaring to new record highs across the country but top government officials insisted oil companies have not passed on the entire increase warranted from international oil and gas rising to three-year highs. Petrol price for the third straight day hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent petrol price in Delhi to its highest ever level of Rs. 102.39 a litre and to Rs. 108.43 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs. 90.77 in Delhi and Rs. 98.48 in Mumbai. Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor said oil companies are taking their own decision on aligning retail rates with the cost but they are ensuring extreme volatility is avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-diesel-prices-raised-yet-again/article36815737.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign soon to promote rainwater harvesting in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will launch a rainwater harvesting (RWH) campaign in all 15 zones of the city on Monday, ahead of the northeast monsoon. The campaign, scheduled till October 9, will focus on various aspects of rainwater harvesting in public spaces and private buildings. The GCC has identified about 89,000 buildings in the city without RWH structures. Some are said to have faulty structures. The civic body will ask owners of such buildings to restore these structures before the monsoon. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said, “All buildings should have facilities for rooftop rainwater harvesting. The GCC has put up 200 sunken wells in the city and silt catch pits and renovated waterbodies. In terms of silt catch pits, around 20,000 already have RWH structures. And now, we have gone for desilting of silt catch pits, which is the interface between the roads and the stormwater drains.” Groundwater quality Many residents’ associations have informed the civic officials about groundwater depletion and seawater intrusion in various neighbourhoods over the past few years. V. Rajagopal, a resident of Anna Nagar Western Extension, said though awareness campaigns and surveys by government agencies were good initiatives, the drive to inspect RWH structures in buildings should be intensified. They should also check the stormwater drain network to minimise waterlogging and link it to the nearest waterbody, he added. Former Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said the Corporation should develop RWH structures in more public spaces instead of asking residents to create structures during a pandemic when people were facing economic difficulties. Geetha Ganesh of the AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association said, “About 80% of houses in our colony are independent residences. We have enough space around them for groundwater percolation. Before 2015, groundwater used to be saline and the total dissolved solids (TDS) level used to be more than 3,500 parts per million. Now, water quality has improved with rainwater being harvested in houses and in two large parks and a playground.” Comprehensive report In a fortnight, the Metrowater would also bring out a comprehensive report on the survey done on the status of rainwater harvesting in the city. It is also considering a proposal to make the report accessible to the public. So far, volunteers roped in by the agency have covered nearly 8 lakh buildings in the city as part of the RWH awareness campaign launched at the end of August. Nearly 2,000 members of self-help groups (SHGs) were employed for the campaign. There are nearly 10.91 lakh buildings in the 35,000 streets of the city. Metrowater officials said volunteers would collect various details, including the type of buildings and wells, presence of water and sewer connections, and the status of RWH structure maintenance. Besides testing water quality in buildings, nearly 3.5 lakh samples were collected from various areas to test other parameters, an official said. Data collated from the survey forms were being analysed, and the information would be compiled into a book. Based on the outcome of the analysis, the water agency would intensify its campaign and strengthen interventions for optimum harnessing of rainwater. For instance, TDS level in water was found to be higher in some streets, and the survey analysis would help identify specific reasons and solutions. The report would help identify old, ageing pipelines and improve infrastructure. Data could help identify buildings that either do not have RWH structures or maintain them poorly, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-soon-to-promote-rainwater-harvesting-in-city/article36815925.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin attempts to keep milk colder longer, will get more tubs||Aavin plans to increase by 100%, the number of tubs meant to transport and store milk packets in, to improve the packets retaining chillness, leading to an increase in shelf life of the milk at the customer’s end. The milk major is in the process of re-working the actual requirement of tubs utilised in the entire business cycle. “There had been complaints of delays in milk supply, which led us to study the system. We found that the dispatchers waited for the tubs to return after the first round of delivery to fill them again and send them for delivery. This also led to the temperature of milk touching 10 degree Celsius in place of the 4 degree Celsius that it should be when it leaves our dairy,” K.S. Kandasamy, Aavin, Managing Director told The Hindu . Doubling of tubs would mean a reduction in loading time, thus leading to milk retaining chillness for longer. It would also mean a reduction of time that the cold storage room would be kept open. Customers who get milk packets delivered at their homes by 5 a.m. - 5.30 a.m. do not collect it till about 6.30 a.m. in many places. If the packets are delivered at lower temperatures, consumers would not be forced to boil the milk immediately, explained an official. Officials of Aavin, the popular brand name of the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation, had conducted raids recently to seize tubs that had not been returned by retailers. This had led to grumbling among retailers, who were mostly small traders. “Recently we interacted with milk retailers and they told us that when they kept Aavin milk tubs outside their shops, customers would walk in and confidently ask for our brand. And they said keeping clean tubs helps even better than a board, which is another point in favour of new tubs,” added Mr. Kandasamy. Aavin delivers around 12.30 lakh litres of milk daily to Chennai city from its dairies in Sholinganallur, Madhavaram, Ambattur and Kakalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-to-get-more-tubs-to-keep-milk-colder/article36816056.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner holds two-day redressal camp||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal held a grievance redressal meeting for personnel, which lasted for eleven-and-a-half hours over the course of two days. Under the ‘Ungal Thuraiyil Muthalamaichar’ (Chief Minister in your department) programme, an initiative was launched to redress the grievances of government staff. Under this, the Police Commissioner held a mega camp on Saturday and Sunday at Rajarathinam Stadium in Egmore. On Saturday, Mr. Jiwal held the redressal programme from 3 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. For seven-and-a-half hours, he directly received petitions from police personnel. He continued the camp from 11.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. on Sunday. A sub-inspector of police said, “It is a good initiative. I was posted in Nungambakkam from Poonamallee a few months ago. I met the Police Commissioner and sought a transfer back to Poonamallee because the commute was difficult, and I only had a few months before retirement. He heard me out and assured me that suitable action will be taken on my petition.” In the two-day programme, 1,554 police personnel submitted their petitions on service-related grievances, including transfers, cancellation of punishment, removal of salary anomaly, allotment of police quarters and medical assistance from the police welfare fund. Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu , “We have endorsed each petition and categorised them. About 70% of them can be dealt with directly by our office, and will be redressed within a month. The rest will be sent to the office of the Director General of Police for action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commissioner-holds-two-day-redressal-camp/article36815920.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector shifted following viral video||An inspector was shifted from the Tirukazhukundram police station, following a video of him having a steamy conversation with a woman on a video call went viral. He was shifted to the vacancy reserve position, pending enquiry. Sources said a 38-year-old man from Old Washermenpet sent a complaint to the Director General of Police, the Inspector General of Police, North zone, and the Superintendent of Police, Chengalpattu, about the alleged illegal intimacy the inspector had with his wife. The man alleged that his wife often visited her sister in Nelvoy village, near Tirukazhukundram, and had been avoiding him since then. On growing suspicious about her fidelity, he said he checked her mobile phone. He said he was shocked to find a nude video of the inspector on her mobile phone. The inspector was having an illicit relationship with his wife, the man alleged. Thereafter she started staying with her sister in Nelvoy, he said. The man also alleged that the inspector threatened him when he questioned the latter. Meanwhile, the video of the inspector went viral on social media and mobile messaging platforms. Acting on the complaint, P. Vijayakumar, Chengalpattu SP, ordered the inspector’s transfer. Mr. Vijayakumar said, “We have received a complaint. The officer concerned was shifted from the station to vacancy reserve position, pending enquiry. Further enquiry will be conducted and on completion of the enquiry, necessary action will be taken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-shifted-following-viral-video/article36815945.ece
04 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||High-yielding cassava varieties introduced in T.N.||The ICAR- Central Tuber Crop Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, has introduced two new disease-resistant and high-yield varieties of cassava (maravalli kizhangu), in three villages in Tamil Nadu. In Kolli Hills in Namakkal district, they distributed the Sree Reksha sticks meant for planting since August - September is the season for planting in the hilly areas. These are the more resistant to the yellow mosaic disease that leads to curling up of leaves and reduction in yield from 20% to 80%. “Farms in Kolli Hills seem to have a higher incidence of this disease, which is why this variety is being introduced there. The idea is to provide the planting material to a few farmers this year and then distribute it to more farmers the next year from this crop,” explained R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, Seed technology, Division of Crop Production at the Institute. A team of scientists from ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, visited the villages and introduced the crop and their features to the farmers. The Sree Athulya variety, which is a high yield variety, was distributed to farmers in Gudamalai in Salem district and Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai district. “This variety gives a yield of 15-18 tonnes of cassava. The Thailand and the Muluvadi varieties of crop that are commonly used by farmers, give only around 10 - 12 tonnes per acre,” he added. Farmers in Salem had done their planting in February and their crop would be ready for harvest in November-December. All these farmers were provided inputs, including fertilizers without any cost, under the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) programme, the scientist said. “Cassava harvested in Salem is used to produce Javvarisi or Saabudhana , which is then sent to north India. In Kerala, it is consumed as kappa along with fish,” he said. Seed entrepreneurs The objective of the programme is to make the farmers as seed entrepreneurs to overcome the acute shortage of quality of planting materials of improved varieties of cassava. Cassava has been globally recognised as a potential candidate for climate resilient crop due to its ability to grow under low management conditions with economical yield. Cassava has been identified as part of the Central government’s One District One Product for Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-yielding-disease-resistant-cassava-varieties-introduced-in-tamil-nadu/article36815985.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Iron piece removed from man’s eye||A 48-year-old man underwent surgery to remove a piece of iron from his eye at a private hospital recently. Luckily, his retina survived, ensuring that he did not lose sight. The man, a two-wheeler mechanic from Nellore, sustained the injury in his right eye while repairing a motorcycle. A large iron piece measuring 13 mm got lodged in his right eye. “We operated on him on Thursday. While he was working on a motorcycle, the iron piece went into his eye like a missile. The entire eye was disorganised. Every tissue was injured. He had a cornea and scleral tear, a cataract and vitreous haemorrhage, endophthalmitis (infection in the eye) and a large intraocular foreign body,” said Mohan Rajan of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, who led the team that operated on the man. “During the operation, we found that the iron piece had impacted the retina. We had difficulty removing it. Fortunately, the retina was fairly okay. The patient is showing signs of improvement as the retina has reattached and the cornea has started clearing,” he said. The entire surgery, which would have cost the patient around Rs. 2 lakh, was done free of cost under the Rotary Scheme and the Chennai Vision Charitable Trust. “We discharged him on Saturday, and he has returned to Nellore,” he added. Dr. Mohan was assisted by refractive surgeon Sujatha Mohan, senior vitreo-retinal consultant Manoj Khatri and J. Jeenendhar Gothi, head of  anaesthesiology. The patient would have to return after six months for further treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iron-piece-removed-from-mans-eye/article36815921.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RWAs field candidates, take to digital campaign for election||Vengaivasal residents get to know some of their independent candidates in the upcoming rural local bodies election with just one tap in their mobile phones. These are candidates fielded by Vengaivasal residents’ welfare associations as an effort to bring in changes in the locality. The digital campaign was designed by one of the candidates to give details on the four independent candidates and manifesto with a tap on social media icons. The idea is to door- to-door campaign during the pandemic. T. Senthil Kumar, one of the candidates and a resident of Santhosapuram, said, “We have designed campaign posters that would be communicated through WhatsApp. Voters just have to tap on various social media icons in the posters to know about the team of candidates, manifesto and campaign. They can even connect with the candidates directly and provide their suggestions or grievances.” Data on members were collected through various residents’ welfare associations in the locality. “We have reached out to 6,000 families through our digital campaign so far. There are nearly 22,600 voters in the area. This is an attempt towards paperless campaign. We want to create awareness on significance of voting in local body elections,” he said. The candidates campaign in autorickshaws in the area. The associations have chosen two former councillors to be fielded among the four independent candidates. The team is contesting for the posts of president and ward members in the Vengaivasal village panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rwas-field-candidates-take-to-digital-campaign-for-election/article36815944.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vallalar’s Sathya Gnana Sabhai to get world-class facilities: Minister||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Sunday said that tenders had been called for consultants for constructing a world-class centre at Ramalinga Adigalar’s Sathya Gnana Sabhai in Vadalur in Cuddalore district. Vallalar, as he is addressed by his followers, was born on October 5, 1823. The Minister, who visited the house where the Saint lived in the Seven Wells area in Chennai between 1825 and 1858, said that the government was ready to extend any help in the renovation of the building that is under private management. Mr. Sekarbabu also said that the Vadalur centre, where food is being served continuously, would get a dining hall, a meditation centre and a library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vallalars-sathya-gnana-sabhai-to-get-world-class-facilities-minister/article36815947.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,531 fresh cases, 23 more fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases dropped marginally to 1,531 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, even as three districts — Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu — continued to report 100-plus infections. Tenkasi logged the least number of infections with only one person testing positive. Chennai continued to top the table with 184 cases, taking the city’s tally to 5,50,398. There were 158 cases in Coimbatore, and 105 in Chengalpattu. While 93 people tested positive in Thanjavur, there were 91 cases in Erode. Tiruppur logged 76 cases, while Tiruvallur saw 62. Five districts, including Tenkasi, recorded under 10 cases each. The State’s tally touched 26,68,495. Another 23 persons — eight in private hospitals and 15 in government facilities — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,650. Dharmapuri recorded three deaths, while there were two fatalities each in Chengalpattu, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur. Chennai and Coimbatore accounted for one death each. As many as 1,582 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,15,873. At present, 16,972 people are under treatment in the State. As many as 1,50,410 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,74,49,936. According to data from Saturday, Mayiladuthurai has the highest positivity rate at 2.3%, followed by Thanjavur with 2.2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1531-fresh-cases-23-more-fatalities/article36815933.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kathipara Urban Square likely to be opened this month||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is likely to open the Kathipara Urban Square, a multi-modal space near Alandur Metro station, within two weeks. Originally meant to be ready in May, the facility is now almost complete, sources said. The urban square is being constructed at a cost Rs. 14 crore over an area of 55,000 square metres under the Kathipara flyover. It will consist of bus bays, food stalls, retail outlets, a play area for children and landscaped space. A Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) official said: “Some landscaping and work on laying the roof tiles for the retail spaces will be done in a few days.” While the walking area and bus bays will be immediately available for public, the retails outlets and food kiosks will come up much later. CMRL has floated tenders inviting firms to develop the space for retail outlets and other facilities, which will take a few months. The idea is to encourage people to use Alandur Metro station, the largest elevated station in the phase I project connecting the Washermenpet-Chennai Airport and Chennai Central-St. Thomas Mount stretches. The square will be connected to the station to provide easy access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kathipara-urban-square-to-be-opened-soon/article36816236.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||She uses nanotech to make herbal products||It has been raining on and off, and as one enters Subashree Vijay’s house in south Chennai, a mixture of pleasant scents wafts through the doors. The 200-odd herbal plants on her terrace give the feel of being transported to a mini-forest. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned her as a woman entrepreneur who was working with herbal products in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’. “I had taken an online entrepreneurship course on medical plants from the Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, under the Indian Council for Agricultural Research. And as part of the course, I had to submit a product idea, which was selected for incubation. It was a herbal deodoriser, a substitute for naphthalene balls. I gave an improved version and with their guidance, I am doing research on that,” explained Ms. Vijay, who is currently using her learnings from her M.Sc. Physics in her research. She is now working on the application of nanotechnology in herbal products. “I got married as soon as I finished college, and my family became my priority. But a chance meeting with a traditional siddha practitioner, Nellai Nayakam, changed all that. I started out to assist him and he introduced me to the texts and soon herbs became my passion. I kept attending training programmes, learning about herbs from botanists, traditional practitioners and from tribals. In 2011, I started Atri, my company with three verticals, selling food products, herbal cosmetics and herbal plants,” she explained. Apart from her work with the herbal deodoriser, she also helps set up thematic herbal gardens for schools and colleges, runs a seed bank and sells medicinal plants. “Every home should have at least 10 basic medicinal plants for respiratory and digestive issues. Tulsi , aloevera , manathakkali , lemon grass and thoothuvalai are some that can be easily grown. Apartment complexes can have community herbal gardens,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/she-uses-nanotech-to-make-herbal-products/article36815954.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools reach out to parents on reopening||Following the State government’s announcement that schools can reopen for students from Classes I to VIII from November 1, schools are scheduling virtual and in-person sessions with parents to handle their queries and receive feedback on what safety measures can be implemented. This, they say, is in addition to the measures that will be specified in the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that will be shortly released by the government, as was done when campuses reopened for students of Classes IX to XII. “Schools have already started reaching out to parents, and are scheduling weekly interactions with them. Their queries, at this stage, range from whether teaching and non-teaching staff on campus are vaccinated to the measures in place to prevent sharing of food and water among students as well as how to ensure that children regularly wash and sanitise hands on campus,” said K.R. Maalathi, CEO, Auuro Educational Services, who is a consultant with schools in the city. Ms. Maalathi said most institutions were also raising awareness about the need for vaccination among the parents. After nearly 19 months of staying away from campuses, students from Classes I to VIII will be back, and among the primary queries put forth by parents is the aspect of physical distancing in school transport as well as the sharing of food. “Over 60% of parents from our member schools are happy that schools are reopening. Among the few concerns raised by them is whether students will wear masks for prolonged hours,” said N. Vijayan, patron, Unified Self-Financing Schools’ Association. Owing to concerns regarding the sharing of food and water as well as congregating in large numbers, he said some schools might choose to keep their canteens shut, and encourage children to bring food and water from home. For students from Classes IX to XII, the School Education Department had insisted on consent forms being filled by parents, and had specified that it was not compulsory for students to return to campus. For middle and primary schools too, the School Education Minister said a few days ago that students would not be forced to return to campus. “We have been advocating for the district administration and Chief Educational Officers in each district to draw up SOPs for their jurisdictions. There are different concerns in districts that need to be addressed,” said S. Arumainathan, president, Tamil Nadu Students’ Parents’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-reach-out-to-parents-on-reopening/article36815931.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 4 years, Cauvery water realisation falls below 100 tmc ft||After four years, Tamil Nadu’s realisation of Cauvery river water in June-September has gone below the 100-thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) mark. The receipt was about 91.47 tmc ft, against the stipulated 123.14 tmc ft, leaving a shortfall of 31.67 tmc ft. The last time the cumulative receipt of the four months did not touch the 100-tmcft mark was in 2017-18, when the State got about 64.71 tmc ft. Even during 2015-16 and 2016-17, the State received much less than what was due to it, as it got 88.67 tmc ft and 53.097 tmc ft respectively. CWDT’s order Since the notification of the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) in the gazette of the Union government in February 2013, Biligundulu, on the inter-State border, has been the reference point. The CWDT’s final order was modified by the Supreme Court in February 2018. For the purpose of calculating water realisation, a water year is considered to extend from June to May. Since the tribunal’s interim order in June 1991, this is the 19th time that Tamil Nadu has realised water less than the prescribed quantity during the four-month period. As per the interim order, the State should get 137 tmc ft, which was scaled down to 134 tmc ft under the final order. The Supreme Court’s modification of the final order brought the quantity down to 123.14 tmc ft. Besides, this is the eighth time in 30 years that the cumulative realisation has been under the 100-tmc ft mark. Since 1991, the lowest figure of realisation during June-September has been 30.632 tmc ft in 2003-04. The immediate preceding year (2002-03) was marginally better with 46.665 tmc ft. The two other years when realisation was below 100 tmc ft were 2001-02 and 2010-11, when the State was given 86.715 tmc ft and 66.88 tmc ft respectively. Paddy procurement Meanwhile, the State Civil Supplies Corporation has announced that paddy procurement can be carried out through the conventional method or online. This has been made in the light of protests by sections of farmers for migrating to the online system of procurement completely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-4-years-cauvery-water-realisation-falls-below-100-tmc-ft/article36815937.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chola inscriptions detail qualifications for civic officials||At a time when the rural local bodies in nine newly constituted districts are going to the polls, some Chola-era inscriptions bear testimony to the qualifications required for members of the village administrative council. The inscriptions at Thenneri village in Kancheepuram district also shed light on how farm produce was taxed. “I had a chance to visit the temples and read the inscriptions when I was campaigning for the local bodies elections in the district,” said Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, who also holds the portfolio of Archaeology. The inscriptions of Uthiramerur in Kancheepuram district that dwells upon ‘Kudavolai’ — a system to elect members to annual committee (‘variyam’), garden committee, tank committee and other committees for 30 wards — are well-known. But very little is known about the Thenneri inscriptions laying down qualifications for candidates to village administrative committees (‘perumkuri sabai’). The village is located between Walajah and Sunkuvarchathiram. The Kanthaleeswarar temple and the Abathsaheswarar temple are on the banks of the 3.80-km-long Thenneri. They were constructed by Sembian Mahadevi, the grandmother of Chola King Rajaraja, in memory of her son Uthama Chola. The inscriptions are on the walls of the Kanthaleeswarar temple, Mr. Thennarasu said. The temple which offers picturesque scenes are under the control of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). S. Sridharan, former Deputy Superintending Archaeologist of the Archaeology Department, said that according to the inscriptions, candidates should own land and should not have any case pending against them. “He should be highly educated and should have maintained his accounts in a transparent manner.” Mr. Thennarasu said the rulers were considerate while taxing agricultural produce. “For areca nuts, only 50% tax would be collected for the first 10 years after cultivation. Farmers would pay full tax only after the trees started yielding fruits. Similarly, 50% tax was imposed on banana crops until the yield,” he said, citing the inscriptions. The lake bears testimony to Thenneri’s ancientness. Perumpanattrupadai , a Sangam-era literary work, refers to the king who created the lake as ‘Thondaiman Ilanthiraiyan’. The copper plates of the Pallava period found at Kaasakudi refer to the lake as ‘Thiraiyan Eri’. Over centuries, it has become Thenneri, Mr. Sridharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chola-inscriptions-detail-qualifications-for-civic-officials/article36815940.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Victoria Public Hall in Chennai may soon become a museum||The Greater Chennai Corporation is exploring the possibility of converting Victoria Public Hall into a museum. It is also exploring the possibility of conducting a sound and light show in the heritage building. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said a 10-member committee of heritage experts had been formed to finalise all aspects of restoration of Victoria Public Hall. Estimation under way “Various options are being explored. But right now, we are in the process of getting the estimation of the Victoria Public Hall restoration, and we will take this up under theSingara Chennai 2.0 funds,” said Mr. Bedi. The State government has issued a government order for release of funds for Singara Chennai 2.0. “On Monday, we are calling for tenders for preparing a detailed project report for heritage preservation of Victoria Public Hall. The committee will have representatives from the Archaeological Survey of India, the IIT and INTACH,” said Mr. Bedi. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru had announced that Victoria Public Hall would be restored without diminishing the heritage value of the building. “Already, one phase of repairs has been undertaken in previous years. I have inspected Victoria Public Hall. Mr. Nehru had also inspected it about a month ago, and it was decided to restore the building for which I have formed a committee under the Chief Engineer-buildings,” Mr. Bedi said. Compliance with rules Conservation architects are expected to conserve the heritage building by reconstruction and restoration in compliance with national and international rules and principles. Surrounding areas The surrounding areas of the monument are expected to be strengthened to enhance the character of the heritage building. Once the restoration is completed, visitors will be able to watch the sound and light show about Chennai’s heritage, sitting on benches outside the heritage buildings. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. had completed work on the lawn on the premises. Work on stormwater drains would be completed to prevent waterlogging in the area, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victoria-public-hall-in-chennai-may-soon-become-museum/article36816086.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin seeks support for rural local body polls||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday called upon people to vote for the ruling alliance in the upcoming rural local body elections in the nine newly created districts, saying that it was through the local bodies that government schemes would reach people without hurdles. Recalling various schemes announced and implemented by the DMK government in a short span, Mr. Stalin said the government would come out with more schemes and the people’s support was important for their implementation. “However great they may be, schemes can reach people only through local bodies. Your votes are important for their implementation,” he said in a message to voters on the eve of the rural local body polls. Mr. Stalin said the DMK and its allies were always thinking of the people. “You voted for the DMK in the Assembly election, and should vote for us in the local body polls too. You voted for us with the hope that we will implement the promises made. You made me the Chief Minister, and I have been working for you,” he said. He said though the AIADMK had been in power for 10 years, it had failed to fulfil the promises made in the two Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-seeks-support-for-rural-local-body-polls/article36815935.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ghulam Nabi Azad meets Stalin||Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Ghulam Nabi Azad called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday. Lauds Stalin’s work “He appreciated the work of the Chief Minister and the achievements attained by him within a short span of time,” said DMK MP Kanmozhi, who was present during the meeting. “Mr. Azad also said that this was the first time he was not able to meet Kalaignar,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Mr. Azad, who was here to attend a wedding, also called on Kanimozhi’s mother Rajathi Ammal at her Alwarpet residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghulam-nabi-azad-meets-stalin/article36815943.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay property tax by Oct. 15 to receive 5% incentive’||The Greater Chennai Corporation has requested property tax assessees to pay before October 15 and get a 5% incentive. According to a press release, people can pay the property tax on the Corporation’s website www.chennaicorporation.gov.in, at e-seva counters at zonal and divisional Corporation offices, through hand-held devices of tax collectors, on Namma Chennai and Paytm mobile applications, at select banks and through the Bharat Bill Payment System. As per the amendment to the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919, assessees who pay during the second half-year of 2021-22 before October 15, will be given 5% incentive up to a maximum limit of Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-property-tax-by-oct-15-to-receive-5-incentive/article36815917.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation restores 180 waterbodies||The Greater Chennai Corporation has restored 180 waterbodies in the city ahead of the onset of the northeast monsoon. After the 2015 floods, about 210 waterbodies were identified for restoration and desilting to improve water storage. This year, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru announced that 50 additional waterbodies would be renovated to improve storage of rainwater in Chennai. The work is expected to be completed in three years. A total of Rs. 200 crore has been earmarked for this. Officials said the development of infrastructure to recycle sewage is expected to prevent pollution of stormwater drains and waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-restores-180-waterbodies/article36815927.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One knocked down by speeding lorry||A 24-year-old youth riding a motorcycle was knocked down by a speeding lorry in Triplicane in the early hours of Sunday. Police said the accident occurred at 12.45 a.m. when the victim, identified Jeenath Basha, 24, of Dyan Sahib Street, was travelling on his bike near Triplicane police station. The lorry which came from behind him knocked his vehicle down. In the impact, he fell off his bike and got caught under the wheels of the lorry. He died on the spot. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-run-over-by-lorry-in-triplicane/article36815926.ece
04 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai to lead BJP’s protest in Chennai||Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai will lead the party’s protest in front of Kalikambal temple in Chennai on October 7, urging the State government to allow temples to be opened all days. Former Union Minister of State Pon. Radhakrishnan would lead the protest in Tiruvannamalai. Other leaders will hold similar protests in different places. Party minority wing leaders wing will spearhead the protest before churches and mosques, a BJP statement said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leader-to-lead-protest/article36815948.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionaries expelled||The AIADMK on Sunday expelled eight functionaries of its Ranipet district unit for contesting as independents in the rural local bodies’ polls, and supporting candidates of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. This was announced in a press release issued by the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, and the co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionaries-expelled/article36815949.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DTE to look into plaints in Shorthand examination||A decision on complaints over the question paper for the recently concluded shorthand (higher speed) examination will be taken based on the recommendation of the committee constituted for the purpose, the Directorate of Technical Education has said. An expert committee was constituted after the DTE received complaints from candidates that the pronunciation and recording of the exam paper for the Shorthand (higher speed) English examination, held on September 26, was not clear. A DTE circular said it had received complaints through mail, in person and through letters. The DTE had not conducted the annual exams for business accountancy, shorthand and typewriting owing to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Instead the suspended exams were conducted in September — Accounting (September 24); Shorthand (September 25, 26) and Typewriting (September 18,19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-study-complaints-over-shorthand-examination/article36815957.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Gram sabhas should be given authority’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday urged the State government to grant authority to the gram sabhas to decide on implementing prohibition in villages under their jurisdiction. In a statement, he welcomed Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s participation in a gram sabha meeting held at Pappapatti village on Saturday. “The Chief Minister in the meeting spoke about grama rajyam and fulfilling the needs of the villages. Giving authority to them to make decisions to fulfil their needs as well as rights to protect against the unnecessary evils will only ensure a true grama rajyam ,” Dr. Ramadoss said. He pointed out that in a particular village and surroundings areas, if most people are against the opening of liquor shops, immediately a gram sabha must be conducted and based on voting, the liquor shops should be closed.  ‘Pass legislation’ The State government should pass legislation soon to facilitate this, Dr. Ramadoss said. He also reiterated his call to follow the Maharashtra model of prohibition in Tamil Nadu.  Follow Maharashtra model of prohibition in Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gram-sabhas-must-execute-prohibition/article36816057.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||81,454 vaccine doses administered||A total of 81,454 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to the eligible population in the fourth mega vaccination drive held in Coimbatore district on Sunday. While 31,871 persons received the first dose, 49,583 received second dose. The drive was held in 558 vaccination centres in the district. Collector G.S. Sameeran coordinated the exercise. According to the district administration, 63,675 doses of Covishield and 17,779 doses of Covaxin were inoculated to those aged above 18 in the drive. As many as 1,13,618 doses vaccines were administered in the third mega drive held on September 26. The second drive held on September 19 covered 94,723 people and the first drive held on September 12 covered 1,51,685 people. In Tiruppur district, 80,066 doses were administered to those aged above 18. District Collector S. Vineeth coordinated the exercise. According to the Health Department, 42,120 persons received their first dose and 37,946 had their second dose. While 78,262 people were inoculated in the third drive in Tiruppur district, 89,379 doses were administered in the second drive. A total of 1,23,163 people were inoculated in the first drive in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81454-vaccine-doses-administered/article36815977.ece
04 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Support group for Parkinson’s disease to expand operations||Parivarthan for Parkinson’s Foundation, a Chennai-based support group for those suffering from Parkinson’s disease, will soon expand its operations to Coimbatore district to reach out to senior citizens with the disease, according to its founder Sudha Meiyappan. The not-for-profit organisation founded in 2014 in Chennai has now over 250 members across the State. “Coimbatore seems to be the geriatric capital of South India,” she told The Hindu . As the organisation’s support group meetings has moved online due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a few senior citizens from Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have also joined apart from the members, Ms. Meiyappan said. Apart from support group meetings, Parivarthan also organises yoga and speech therapies, home visits and counselling for both the patients and their caregivers, she said. With Parkinson’s disease being a chronic neurological degenerative disorder that generally affects senior citizens and has no definitive cure, awareness about the disease is lacking in smaller towns, she said. The organisation will conduct camps in Coimbatore from 2022 depending on the severity of the pandemic, she noted. For details, Ms. Meiyappan can be reached at 93810 35979 orsudha.parivarthan@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-group-for-parkinsons-disease-to-expand-operations/article36815968.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. conducts various events to mark 75th I-Day||A bicycling event connecting a few tanks the Coimbatore Corporation had developed under the Smart Cities Mission marked the third and last day of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebration the civic body had organised on Sunday. The Corporation along with German agency GiZ GmbH and Western Valley Cycling had organised the bicycling event, cyclathon, that started from D.B. Road. More than 100 cyclists participated in the event by cycling through Dr. Krishnaswamy Road (Brooke Bond Road), Race Course and touching Valankulam, Ukkadam Big Tank, Selva Chinthamani and Muthannankulam tanks. Sources in the Corporation said Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, who inaugurated the event, also bicycled with the participants. On D.B. Road, the Corporation had organised another event – to promote cycling. The civic body had diverted motorised transport to encourage cyclists to move around the place. It had also organised Zumba, yoga and other programmes. The events on D.B. Road included a bicycle repair clinic and a desk for people to register for donating and receiving bicycles. This was to promote cycling in the city, the sources said. On Sunday evening, the Corporation conducted a drawing and story-telling event for children at the under-construction amphi theatre on Muthannankulam tank. On Saturday, the Corporation had led a group of children to plant 75 saplings on Muthannankulam tank to mark the 75th year of Independence. And, on the first day on Friday, the civic body had deployed 120 college students at seven junctions in the city to encourage road users to follow rules. The volunteers held placards at GKNM Hospital junction on Avinashi Road, SITRA, Singanallur, Kovaipudur, Nava India and a couple of more places between signals for over an hour to educate motorists, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-conducts-various-events-to-mark-75th-year-of-independence/article36815971.ece
04 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Educate village panchayat officials on building rules, govt. told||The State Government should issue necessary instructions to the village panchayat officials empowered to approve building plans as they are not aware of the rule concerned, the Coimbatore Consumer Cause said in a letter sent to the Directorate of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. Two years after the State Government framed the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 and the Directorate sent letters to assistant directors, panchayats, in all districts saying that the rules would apply to village panchayats as well, none of the officials seemed to be aware of its applicability. This was evident in the approval panchayats gave to applicants – it was for a year. The rules clearly stated that plan approval was valid for five years. This lack of information was not only in Coimbatore but across the State, the consumer body’s secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said. When the consumer body sought information from the assistant director, panchayats, Coimbatore, regarding the applicability of the rules to village panchayats and the period of plan approval, he forwarded the letter to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning. This happened because the assistant director was unaware of the rules and therefore did not pass on the information to the officials in panchayats. This was notwithstanding the fact that the Directorate had on November 5, 2019 written to all assistant directors, panchayats, saying that the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules would hold good for village panchayats as well. ‘Regrettable’ The officials at the districts and panchayats were not aware of the rules, which was in public domain or the Directorate’s communication, the consumer body said and termed it regrettable. It was the public that bore the result of the officials’ ignorance as it got plan approval for only a year and was forced to apply for extension every year thereafter. IThe Government should therefore issue orders to all assistant directors to be passed on to officials in panchayats and order that all plans approved after it framed the rules were valid for five years, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educate-village-panchayat-officials-on-building-rules-govt-told/article36815964.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 30,000 persons vaccinated in city||Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday vaccinated 31,859 persons in the mega vaccination camp organised across the city. The Corporation had organised 198 camps where health workers were ready with vaccines from 7 a.m. As of 8 p.m., the health workers had administered first dose vaccine to 13,492 persons and second dose vaccine to 18,367 persons, said sources. Of the five zones, East Zone topped the list with 7,536 persons taking vaccines. North Zone stood second with 7,022 doses followed by South Zone - 6,390, West Zone - 5,721 and Central Zone - 5,190. At the end of the mega drive, the Corporation said there were more than one lakh persons who were yet to take second dose vaccine. As many as 25,194 persons were due for second dose of Covaxin and 85,910 for Covishield as of October 2, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-30000-persons-vaccinated-in-city/article36815973.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest by tribal people enters second day||The protest by members of Kadar tribe in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) entered the second day on Sunday. The protestors appealed to the Chief Minister to accord homestead patta for 23 families of the ethnic tribe who were evicted by ATR authorities from their traditional settlement at Kallar in August 2019. They reiterated their demand for an alternative land at Theppakulamedu inside ATR. Organisers of the protest said that the tribal people will continue their peaceful protest until they get an assurance from the appropriate authority on allocating lands for them at an alternative location. They said that a sub-divisional committee comprising officials from the Revenue, the Forest and the Survey and Land Records Departments had surveyed the land at Theppakulamedu in September 2020. Though the residents expected that further processes for granting patta would be expedited, the ATR administration opposed the move, said the organisers. On Sunday, the tribal people staged the protest, braving heavy rain. Tribesmen played traditional musical instruments and women danced during the protest. District Police deployed personnel at the protest venue near Thaimudi estate, near Valparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-by-tribal-people-enters-second-day/article36815974.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Colleges gear up to receive first year students||Colleges in Coimbatore are gearing up to welcome first year students, who will be going to colleges after more than a year following a State Government order permitting opening of classes. The college management representatives The Hindu spoke to said they would be following all the State Government-advised COVID-19 safety protocol, including conducting classes by maintaining physical distance. Seating students with sufficient space among them would not be a problem, even after the entry of first year students, because most colleges were conducting classes alternately for second and third year students. And those students who were in college would also be in laboratories, the representatives said and reiterated that availability of rooms, therefore, would be sufficient to maintain physical distance. In hostels at present, the managements had permitted only 50% occupancy in rooms. If the entry of first year students from outside Coimbatore were to lead to violation of the safety protocol, the colleges had planned to reschedule classes for second or third year students so that they returned home to continue online classes.  The first year students on starting offline classes would continue with bridge and orientation courses as suggested by the Bharathiar University. The college managements had started those courses online a couple of months ago to teach basics once again to students, who had completed Plus Two while sitting at home during the pandemic. They would continue to teach the basics for a while before starting with college subjects. And those students from Kerala or other districts could opt to continue classes online, the representatives said. Unlike last year when admission to courses took a hit following the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown, this year colleges had seen improved admission and most colleges had almost filled seats in all courses, the representatives added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-gear-up-to-receive-first-year-students/article36815969.ece
04 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School classroom block opened||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi recently inaugurated a new classroom block for a government school here that was sponsored by Rotary Club of Coimbatore Spectrum. A release said that the new block comprising two classrooms, a headmaster’s office and new toilets were constructed at the Panchayat Union Middle School in Veeriyampalayam within the Corporation limits. Rotary Club of Coimbatore Spectrum joined hands with Baker Hughes for the project worth Rs. 35 lakh. District Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, were present at the inauguration, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-classroom-block-opened/article36815986.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Policeman killed in accident in Coimbatore||A policeman was killed in an accident near Karamadai late on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Balu Mahenthiran (41), a head constable attached to the Sulthanpet police station. The police said that Mahenthiran was working at the camp office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karumathampatty sub-division. The accident took place around 9.15 p.m. at Therampalayam, near Karamadai, when Mahenthiran was returning to his house at Mettupalayam after duty. According to the police, the two-wheeler which Mahenthiran rode collided with another two-wheeler. He suffered serious injuries in the collision and died. The body was shifted to the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, where it was autopsied on Sunday. Senior police officers paid respects to the deceased at the mortuary from where the body was taken to the policeman’s native in Virudhunagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-killed-in-accident/article36815965.ece
04 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Weekly grievance redress meeting to be held today||The district administration would hold the weekly grievance redress meeting on Mondays starting October 4. A press release from the administration said petitioners should follow all COVID-19 safety protocols like wearing mask and maintaining physical distance and compulsorily mention their phone number in the petition. The State Government had on September 28 said it was lifting the restriction placed on holding weekly grievance meeting and the monthly farmers’ grievance meeting on last Fridays.      The District Legal Services Authority and Vizhuthugal, a non-governmental organisation, organised a legal awareness camp at Pudhupalayam near Avinashi on Saturday. Principal District and Sessions Judge Swarnam J. Natarajan along with other judges from the Tiruppur District Court participated and explained various legal services and government schemes to the public, a release said. Cash assistance to school students and senior citizens was also provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekly-grievance-redress-meeting-to-be-held-today/article36815972.ece
04 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for poisoning neighbour’s dog||The Aliyar police in Coimbatore rural on Saturday booked a man on charges of poisoning his neighbour’s pet dog. The police said that M. Kandasamy (65), a resident of Paraimedu at Angalakurichi, was booked based on a complaint lodged by his neighbour S. Saravanakumar (22). According to the police, Kandasamy has been rearing hens in his house and many of them were killed by unidentified dogs. The man placed eatables laced with rat poison to kill the dogs. However, Mr. Saravanakumar’s Labrador allegedly ate the poisoned stuff and died. Mr. Saravanakumar filed a complaint with the Aliyar police and Kandasamy was booked on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-poisoning-neighbours-dog/article36815966.ece
04 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Video of CM interacting with school students in Dharmapuri goes viral||A video of Chief Minister M.K.Stalin interacting with the students of a private school has gone viral on social media. Mr. Stalin recently visited the district to inaugurate various projects and to review the Hogenekkal Combined Water Supply Scheme. While he was on his way to Hogenekkal, Mr.Stalin stopped the convoy seeing a group of students and teachers waiting outside a private school. He got down from his car and exchanged pleasantries with the school authorities and received mementoes from them. Mr. Stalin also interacted with the children who were waiting outside the school and the video went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-cm-interacting-with-school-students-in-dharmapuri-goes-viral/article36816084.ece
04 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed as wall collapses following heavy rain in Erode||An elderly woman was killed during the early hours of Sunday after one of the walls of her thatched house at Nethaji Street in the city collapsed following continuous rain. The deceased, identified as Rajammal (70), was sleeping on a cot, when the wall collapsed and the debris fell on her. She died on the spot. Her son, Ramasami, was sleeping on the floor and he suffered injuries, police said. People in the neighbourhood alerted the police. Surampatti police rushed to the spot, shifted Ramasami to Erode Government Hospital and recovered Rajammal’s body. Police have registered a case. Rainfall level Erode district received an average rainfall of 25.4 mm on Sunday. Sathyamangalam recorded 53 mm, the highest in the district. Rainfall recorded in other areas are: Erode-34 mm; Perundurai-17 mm; Gobi-35.2 mm; Thalavadi-8 mm; Bhavanisagar-38.6 mm; Bhavani-27 mm; Kodumudi-27.4 mm; Nambiyur-29 mm; Chennimalai-4 mm; Modakuruchi-11 mm; Kavundapadi-12 mm; Elanthakuttai Medu-38.2 mm; Ammapettai-16 mm; Kodiveri-31.2 mm; Kuderipallam-34.2 mm, and Varattupallam-16 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-as-wall-collapses-following-heavy-rain-in-erode/article36816083.ece
04 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||It’s a risky ride on Moondrumavadi-Iyer Bungalow road||Uneven roads, lack of parapets of proper height, absence of street lights, regular accidents and waterlogging - these are some of problems that plague the Moondrumavadi-Iyer Bungalow stretch of an arterial road that connects Mattuthavani on the east side and Alanganallur Road at Koodal Nagar via Anaiyur on the west side. Vehicular traffic on this road has increased as it has become the preferred route to reach Mattuthavani as traffic is less compared to other routes. Also, vehicles travel along this stretch at high speed. Senior citizens find it difficult to cross the road or drive their vehicle along this stretch. Recently, president of Sakthi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association S. M. Jeyakumar, a retired Central government official, submitted a petition to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell complaining that senior citizens were finding it difficult to use the road. The petition has been forwarded to the Collector, said Mr. Jeyakumar. As this stretch witnesses a large number of accidents, there was an urgent need for speed breakers to regulate the speed of vehicles, he said. A major risk for road users on this stretch is a PWD canal that bisects the road. Parapets on either side of this channel is either absent or of improper height. So, often vehicles plunge headlong into the channel where there are no parapets. A car fell into the channel recently. Another problem is traffic congestion caused by share autorockshaws which line up and blcok the road to pick passengers. “In the absence of a parapet along the channel, sometimes drivers misjudge the width of the road and fall into it,” said B. Murugan, a resident of Moondrumavadi. Even the parapets that are constructed at some places are of inferior quality. A van had hit a parapet some time ago and in the impact, it got completely dislodged, he said. During COVID-19 lockdown, the roads were deserted and youngsters took to racing. Even now, youths can be seen racing along this stretch, posing threat to other vehicle users. Drunk driving and stray cattle menace complete the picture of ills on this road, he said. A shopkeeper said waterlogging posed a problem on this road. It led to mosquito breeding, she said. “Since the PWD channel is not maintained, it has become a receptacle of garbage, mostly plastic waste, which chokes it,” she said. The PWD authorities said that it was an irrigation channel and before the water was opened, they made sure that it was free of garbage. The public should cooperate with the authorities and not dump waste into the channel, they said. The Corporation authorities said that they would take stock of things and take necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-risky-ride-on-moondrumavadi-iyer-bungalow-road/article36816242.ece
04 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Resolve issue, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai district administration to take steps to resolve an issue regarding construction of a crematorium between two groups in Vadipatti. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy was hearing a petition filed by R. Amutharaj of Madurai. He sought a direction to the authorities to prevent the construction of a crematorium at the proposed site. The petitioner said that it could lead to enmity between the two groups in the area. Disposing of the petition, the court observed that merely because there was an enmity between the two groups does not mean the decision to install the facility at the place has to be changed. The judges observed that the petitioner should address the issue and ensure that the enmity was diffused. The authorities should encourage and ensure that the two groups interact with each other so that the enmity was not fuelled any further, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolve-crematorium-issue-says-hc/article36816239.ece
04 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.30 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 1,056 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 53.05 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,072 cusecs and discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,361 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36816062.ece
04 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Students dismissed for misbehaving in class||Three Class IX students of a government high school in Rasipuram were dismissed by the school authorities after a video of them misbehaving in class went viral on internet. The video of the students misbehaving in class while a visually-impaired teacher was taking lessons went viral on social media recently. The principal called the parents to the school, reprimanded the students and handed over the transfer certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-dismissed-for-misbehaving-in-class/article36815958.ece
04 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Uppar bridge yet to become a reality||The inordinate delay in completing the construction of a bridge over Uppar drain, conceived 15 years ago to ease traffic congestion inside Puducherry town, is turning into a matter of concern for local residents. In 2006, the government gave its nod to construct a bridge over the Uppar drain to regulate traffic on Anna Salai and Kamaraj Salai. The plan was to build a 7.3-km bridge over the drain with a 7.5-m wide two-lane carriage way and 1.5-m wide raised pavements on either side with service ducts beneath them. But lack of planning had put the work on the back burner for several years. The arm of the bridge is yet to be connected to Marimalai Adigal Salai near the New Town and Kamaraj Salai near the Balaji Theatre. “For the last six years at least, no work has taken place. How could such a mega infrastructure project be left incomplete after spending crores of rupees. It is a clear case of bad planning,” said Rakesh, a resident of Rainbow Nagar. The project could be of immense help to people residing in Rainbow Nagar, Saram, Venketa Nagar, Krishna Nagar and nearby places to travel to the Cuddalore Road or reach New Bus Stand. Once the project is completed, residents need not take the Anna Salai route and can avoid two signals to travel on the Cuddalore Road stretch or the New Bus Stand, he added. In future, the works department should set a deadline for completing infrastructure projects and should put the onus on the officers involved in the planning of such works, said R. Jagannathan, a resident of Lawspet. The speedy execution of the work has also become necessary as the accumulation of debris near the construction site was blocking easy flow of rainwater. Adjacent residential areas such as Nehru Nagar, Bharathidasan Street, J. V. S Nagar and Sahayamadam Padasala Street get inundated very fast. At least the government should clear the debris and the accumulated waste before the onset of monsoon, said local legislator Nehru alias Kuppusamy. Fresh bids According to a senior official, the government has decided to close the work allotment given to the contractor and invite fresh bids to complete the remaining part of the work. The government was planning to approach HUDCO for a loan of Rs. 19 crore to execute the project, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uppar-bridge-yet-to-become-a-reality/article36816308.ece
04 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity rate dips below 1% in Union Territory||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-9 death while new cases dropped to 32 and test positivity rate dipped below 1% on Sunday. With a patient death in Karaikal, the cumulative toll in the Union Territory was 1,841. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,443), Karaikal (248), Yanam (106) and Mahe (44). Puducherry logged 16 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,237 tests, followed by Karaikal (9) and Mahe (7). No case was reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was under 1% at 0.76%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 97.98%. With 89 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 709. Of this, 103 patients were in hospital and 606 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded a cumulative aggregate of 1,26,545 cases against 1,23,995 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.07 lakh tests administered so far, about 15.33 lakh samples were negative. Meanwhile, 4,267 persons took the shot against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 10,19,922 doses of vaccine, including 3,22,746 second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-rate-dips-below-1-in-union-territory/article36816311.ece
04 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Citizens’ group against move to start casinos in Puducherry||Citizens’ Pulse, a citizens’ rights group, has urged the Home Ministry to thwart any move from Puducherry to start casinos under the pretext of boosting tourism. In a memorandum to the Union Home Minister, Citizens’ Pulse said it was deeply concerned by the demand by an influential legislator to permit casinos as a measure of promoting tourism and of a proposal to introduce lotteries in Puducherry. These moves come at a time when the citizens are already suffering from the proliferation of liquor shops on a scale disproportionate to the population, memorandum said. This had led to a large number of young women seeking widow pension, alcoholism, absenteeism from work, reducing levels of productivity, domestic violence and law and order issues, S. Ragothaman and Thanigai Thambi from the Citizens’ Pulse said. In such a scenario, allowing casinos would drive many to gambling, where loss of money could eventually lead to suicides and law and order problems. While a few licensees stand to benefit from any such move, it would be detrimental to the public good, the memorandum said. It also said a similar crisis would follow any decision to allow lotteries and the worst affected would be daily wagers and informal economy workers.  These moves come at a time when the citizens are already suffering from the proliferation of liquor shops on a scale disproportionate to the population||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citizens-group-against-move-to-start-casinos-in-puducherry/article36816309.ece
04 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Children’s home sealed, case filed against founder||A joint team comprising officials of different government departments has sealed a private children’s home at Kudumiyanmalai in Pudukottai district following complaints that minor girl inmates were engaged for construction-related works, farming and domestic chores. The complaint stated that the home was being run by a government school teacher which was against rules. The Annavasal police registered a case against the founder of the home and chairperson R. Kalaimagal and her husband Rajendran on a complaint preferred by the District Child Protection Officer J. Gunaseeli on Saturday. Kalaimagal is working as a government school teacher at Kudumiyanmalai, while her husband Rajendran was said to be acting as a counsellor in the home. The case against the couple has been registered under section 75 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and under IPC sections including 506 (i) (criminal intimidation). The seven girl children who were accommodated in the home were rescued by the joint team of officials and accommodated in another home at Vellanur. The couple has gone missing following the complaint. The home, which was registered and being run for three years, housed the seven girls in need of care and protection, said official sources. Ms. Kalaimagal is alleged to have concealed her occupation while starting the home. The issue came to light during periodic visits by the District Child Protection Unit officials. The charge against the couple was also that they had forced the children to undertake domestic works. The sources said being a government school teacher Ms. Kalaimagal cannot run the home as it went against the rules. The District Child Protection Officer inquired into the complaints and brought the issue to the notice of Collector Kavitha Ramu. Acting on the instruction of the Collector, a joint team comprising officials from revenue, police and district child protection unit went to the home a few days ago and sealed it. The rescued girls have been enrolled in a government school at Vellanur to enable them pursue their education, the sources added.  The charge against the couple was that they had forced the children to undertake construction-related works||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/childrens-home-sealed-case-filed-against-founder/article36816042.ece
04 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Cycle rally marks Wildlife Week celebration||A cycle rally was organised here on Sunday by Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, Ramanathapuram Wildlife Division, as part of Wildlife Week celebrations. The events, which began on October 2, would conclude on October 8. The cycle rally was flagged off by Collector (in-charge) Kamatchi Ganesan at the District Collectorate. It concluded at the Wildlife Warden Office. General public, students, foresters, forest officers and anti-poaching watchers participated in the five-km-long cycle rally. The students also held placards and announcements were made on conservation of wildlife and marine life during the cycle rally. Apart from the mega cycle rally, beach walk, logo contest and short film contest would be held during the week-long celebration. The main objective of the wildlife week was to create awareness of the environment. The beach walk event on October 4 would be an awareness campaign for the public through the fishing community. The fishing community people would be explaining the importance of the Gulf of Mannar and marine life to the public, said Forest Range Officer G. Venkatesh. He said they received good response from students and the public. They received over 400 mail responses to competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycle-rally-held-in-ramanathapuram-as-part-of-wildlife-week-celebration/article36816060.ece
04 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Cycle rally marks Wildlife Week celebration in Salem||A cycle rally was taken out here on Sunday as part of the Wildlife Week celebrations. A.Periyasamy, Conservator of Forests, Salem Circle, flagged of the rally from Sandalwood depot at Hasthampatti in the presence of District Forest Officer R.Gowtham and other senior officials. The rally passed through Hasthampatti, Five Roads, New Bus Stand, Anna Park, Government Arts College and concluded at Shevaroyan South range office. Over 50 members from the Salem Randonneurs Cycling Club and Salem Trekking Club took part. Mr. Gowtham said that Wildlife Week was celebrated during the first week of October every year to create awareness on importance of wildlife. He said various events including essay writing, elocution, logo designing competition for school and college students have been planned in the district as part of the celebration till October 8. Awareness programmes would also be held at Kurumbapatti Zoological Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycle-rally-marks-wildlife-week-celebration-in-salem/article36816077.ece
04 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Fourth mega COVID-19 vaccination drive held in districts||The fourth mega vaccination drive was conducted in the districts on Sunday with higher allocation of vaccine doses. In Salem, the district administration targeted to administer 1.72 lakh vaccine doses on the day and 1,392 vaccination centres were arranged as part of the drive. The vaccination drive was conducted till 7 p.m. Both first and second doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines were administered at the camps. In Salem, Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj inspected the progress of vaccination drive at a centre set up in a school. A total of 100 camps were set up in the Corporation limits and 1,750 persons were deployed for the drive. In Namakkal, the district administration targeted to administer 58,000 doses through 440 static centres and 21 mobile centres. District Collector Shreya P.Singh visited the camps at Rasipuram, Kumarapalayam and Ponkuruchi and inspected the progress of the camps. In Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy inspected the progress of vaccination drive at camps set up in Kothakondapalli and Belakondapalli along with Hosur legislator Y.Prakash. The drive was held at 723 centres and the district administration aimed to administer 80,100 doses of vaccines on the day. In Dharmapuri, the vaccination drive was conducted through 380 camps. Collector S.Divyadarshini visited the camps set up at Thandakarnalli, Murukampatti and a few other places. In Erode district, the vaccination camp was arranged at 577 centres. By 7 p.m, 56,417 vaccine doses were administered in the district. A total of 81,454 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to people in Coimbatore district on Sunday. While 31,871 persons received the first dose, 49,583 received second dose. The drive was held in 558 vaccination centres in the district. Collector G.S. Sameeran coordinated the exercise. According to the district administration, 63,675 doses of Covishield and 17,779 doses of Covaxin were inoculated to those aged above 18 in the drive. As many as 1,13,618 doses vaccines were administered in the third mega drive held in Coimbatore on September 26. The second drive held on September 19 covered 94,723 people and the first drive held on September 12 covered 1,51,685 people. In Tiruppur district, 80,066 doses were administered to those aged above 18. District Collector S. Vineeth coordinated the exercise. According to the Health Department, 42,120 persons received their first dose and 37,946 had their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drive-held-in-districts/article36816081.ece
04 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Action against 94 businesses for functioning on Gandhi Jayanti||The Labour Department has initiated legal action against 94 businesses here for functioning on Gandhi Jayanti. Inspections According to a press release, businesses must offer paid leave, alternative leave or double pay for working on national holidays and those establishments functioning on the day must send applications in this regard to respective Labour Inspectors 24 hours ahead of the holiday. A team led by C.Muthu, Assistant Labour Commissioner (Enforcement), conducted inspections and initiated action against 39 shops, 45 restaurants, 10 mechanic workshops in Salem for functioning on Gandhi Jayanti. In Erode, a team led by Assistant Labour Commissioner T.Baladhandayudham conducted the inspections and initiated action against 91 businesses including 43 restaurants, 38 shops and 10 mechanic shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-94-businesses-for-functioning-on-gandhi-jayanti/article36816075.ece
04 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||91 fresh cases in Erode||Erode district on Sunday reported 91 new cases of COVID-19. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous and the district had 1,135 active cases. Salem district reported 53 fresh cases, all indigenous. While Namakkal reported 51 new cases, Krishnagiri saw 41 cases and Dharmapuri 33 cases. As per bulletin, three patients died of COVID-19 in Dharmapuri and one in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/91-fresh-cases-in-erode/article36816074.ece
04 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Football tournament held in Salem||A State-level five-a-side football tournament for underprivileged children was held at Nagaramalai here on Saturday. Over 14 teams from across the State took part in the tournament for under-14 age category organised by the GM Sports Academy. While Thanjavur team emerged winners, Salem team emerged first runners-up. The winners were presented with trophies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/football-tournament-held-in-salem/article36816079.ece
04 October 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Poll observer inspects polling booths in Sattur||Poll observer for Virudhunagar district M. Karunakaran, along with Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, on Sunday inspected polling booths in Sattur Panchayat Union where casual election for the rural local body would be held on October 9. The officials inspected the basic facilities available at the polling booths in Government Higher Secondary School in O. Mettupatti and R.C. Primary School in Othaiyal. They enquired with local officials about drinking water facility, restrooms, power supply, ramps and wheel-chairs for differently abled persons available in polling booths. They also enquired about the stability of the buildings. Later, they visited the Sattur Panchayat Union Office and inspected ballot boxes and stationary meant for the polling. The preparations for polling day and counting day were discussed with the officials including Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Thilagavathi, Personal Assistant (Elections) to Collector A. Chandrasekaran and Assistant Director (Audit) Aravind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-observer-collector-inspect-polling-booths-ballot-boxes-at-sattur-panchayat-union/article36816068.ece
04 October 2021||Sivaganga/Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||T.N. can handle a third wave: Health Minister||Tamil Nadu will effectively handle a possible third wave as 70% of its eligible population will be vaccinated by October-end, said Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Sunday. Inspecting the fourth mega vaccination camps in Tiruppuvanam and Tiruppathur, he said as per WHO and ICMR reports, people can be saved without any loss of life if 70% of the eligible population is vaccinated. “So far, 62% of the eligible population has been administered the first dose and 20% the second,” the Minister said. He said the State was not facing any shortage in vaccine doses. While the vaccine supply target for the State was 1.04 crore doses for September, the Centre gave an additional 37 lakh doses, appreciating Tamil Nadu’s performance. “This month, the target is 1.23 crore doses. We expect an additional supply this month too,” he added. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had also appealed to the Prime Minister for the supply of 50 lakh doses a week, he said. When asked about the inoculation of those aged under 18, the Minister said if the Centre issued guidelines for their vaccination, Tamil Nadu was ready to carry out the same. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy and Manamadurai MLA A. Tamilarasi were present. After inspecting vaccination camps in Pudukottai and other districts, the Minister said over a crore people had got jabs in September. As many as 17,19,544 people took the jabs on Sunday. Of them, 9,68,010 people took the first dose, while 7,51,534 took the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-can-handle-a-third-wave-health-minister/article36815938.ece
04 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister inspects screening for Nipah, Zika infection at Kumuli||Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian on Sunday inspected screening for Nipah and, Zika viral infection of passengers coming into Theni district from Kerala by a health team at Kumuli. Accompanied by Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan, he observed how the screening of passengers was being done. Mr. Subramanian said that efforts were being taken to prevent the spread of Nipah and Zika infection through passengers coming from Kerala in all border districts. The screening was being done at Pollachi, Coimbatore, Palaiyaru, Tirunelveli. Besides, vehicle checks and RT-PCR checks were being carried out. For passengers coming from Kerala without RT-PCR test report, the certificate for COVID-19 vaccination was verified before allowing them into Tamil Nadu. Mr. Subramanian also inspected vaccination carried out at Palanichettipatti, Cumbum, Goodalur and Devadanapatti during the fourth mega camp. As a result of awareness created by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, the State was now able to administer vaccine doses to 25 lakh people a day, he said. With regard to Theni district, a total of 5.72 lakh (54.80%) out of 10.44 lakh eligible people had been given the first dose and 2.05 lakh (19.70%) the second shot. MLAs N. Ramakrishnan, A. Maharajan and K.S. Saravanakumar, Periyakulam Sub-Collector Sherif, Uthamapalayam Revenue Divisional Offier Kousalya and Deputy Director (Health) Jegaveerapandian were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-screened-for-nipah-zika-at-kumili/article36815988.ece
04 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||40 history-sheeters arrested in Thoothukudi||A dusk-to-dawn storming operation conducted by the police across the district on Saturday night with the objective of checking unlawful activities led to the nabbing of 90 persons, including 40 history-sheeters wanted in various cases. The police also seized lethal weapons, including knives and machetes, from them. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, the storming operation was conducted along all arterial roads and 101 hotels and lodges were raided, besides checking 2,019 vehicles. As 1,846 vehicles did not carry the mandatory records, cases were registered against the owners. Another 446 places, including ATMs, jewellery showrooms, banks and financial institutions were monitored by the police for suspicious movements, if any. They were remanded in judicial custody while others were asked to execute ‘security bonds’ assuring that they would abide by the law and would not indulge in any unlawful activity. “Among the persons arrested on Saturday night, arrest warrants were pending against two of them,” the SP said. The senior police official said that 45 cases were registered against 44 persons who sold liquor illegally and 962 bottles of liquor were seized from them. Mr. Jayakumar said similar operations would continue in the district frequently to check the activities of criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-history-sheeters-held-in-thoothukudi/article36816065.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fourth mega camp: more than 65,000 get the jab in Tiruchi||As many as 65,310 people were inoculated in the fourth instalment of the mega vaccination drive in Tiruchi and the district took the fifth position in terms of total number of people vaccinated on Sunday. A total of 515 centres were set up, including 200 in the city and 333 in rural parts of the district. One lakh vaccinations were set as a target for the day, of which 65,310 doses were distributed. Of that, 39,215 people took the first dose, while 26,095 took the second dose. “In this manner, we hope to cover at least 70% of the population. This way, more than half of the population will be safe in case there is a sudden spike in the number of cases,” a senior health official said. Other districts In Thanjavur district, 44,358 people were inoculated, and in Ariyalur, 32,311. Health officials in Tiruvarur district inoculated 24,293 people, and in Perambalur, 21,054 people were vaccinated. Nagapattinam district vaccinated 12,661 people, Karur 17,038 people, Mayiladuthurai 16,149, Pudukottai 15,087 and Aranthangi 11,761.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-mega-camp-more-than-65000-get-the-jab-in-tiruchi/article36816032.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi corporation launches smarttrichy.in, Citizen App||The Tiruchi Corporation has launched an integrated portal to bring all its services under one domain. The website,smarttrichy.in, and a Citizen App, which will be managed by the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) were launched on Saturday. The website allows citizens to browse the services provided, points of contact, places of tourism and other such information. The public can also use the portal and the App as a grievance redress system. A complaint can be raised through the citizens’ service section of the website or the App, through which the information will be directed to the respective departments. People can also track the progress of the complaint. If not addressed in 48 hours, a higher authority will be alerted. Speaking to the press, Chief Engineer S. Amuthavalli said that the ICCC would serve as a monitoring system for authorities and the public. It would also allow the engineers working at the ICCC to analyse and provide data for the perusal of the civic body. On the back-end, the ICCC can control flow of water, smart street lights and make public announcements through various installations in the city. A Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system is already in use to control the flow of water from 10 headworks supplying water to the city. “These changes allow us to cut down on manpower, integrate control and also save on finances which can be put to use in a better manner,” Ms. Amuthavalli said. Smart Pole As part of the ICCC, Smart Poles will be installed at various points in the city. On a trial basis, three - one each at Chathiram Bus Stand, Central Bus Stand and Anna Nagar Science Park - will be installed. The pole will have Automatic Number Plate Reading cameras with audio and video, and an emergency button in case someone needs to alert the authorities. The corporation officials also plan to approach the Collector to allow the ICCC to alert other departments, including the police and Fire and Rescue Services, in case of emergency. The Smart Pole will soon have Wi-Fi, environmental sensors such as rain gauge and speakers, through which authorities can address the public from the control room. A mobile ICCC fitted in a van is also being readied and will be deployed in case of emergencies such as natural disasters. A private company has been given the contract to operate and manage the ICCC for a period of five years. A professor from the National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi has also been roped in to provide guidance to the civic body. The public can visithttps://www.smarttrichy.in/to access the services and to download the Citizens' App. The App will be available on Google Playstore soon.  At the fingertips Public can use the portal and App as a grievance redress system for civic issues People can track progress of complaint; if not addressed in 48 hours, higher authority will be alerted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-launches-smarttrichyin-citizen-app/article36816038.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco cuts roadside trees but foliage remains uncleared for days||Seeming reluctance of corporation workers to remove branches and leaves of fallen trees has evoked strong reaction among residents of Tiruchi. As per the garbage collection system in place for more than four years, the conservancy workers engaged by the civic body carry out collection of wet and non-degradable waste on a door-to-door basis. There are complaints in some areas that the workers are not prompt in garbage collection. Though the workers visit once in two or three days, they leave the branches of fallen trees and leaves untouched. The residents are of the view that there was no problem for them in disposing of all types of garbage when bins were placed in different parts of the city. They dumped domestic waste, food leftovers, vegetables, discarded items and other wastes into the garbage bins. Butthey could not do it after the Corporation decided to remove the bins about four years ago under the new Solid Waste Management Rules passed by the Centre in 2016. The residents were asked to hand over domestic waste directly to the workers coming with pushcarts or light commercial vehicles of the Corporation. Ever since the garbage bins were removed, residents are unable to dispose of dried foliage safely. What is causing concern among the residents is the accumulation of dried fallen trees axed by the Tamil Nadu Generation Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). It trims down well-grown roadside trees that disturb power transmission lines on streets periodically. The felled branches and the leaves are not removed for days together. The Tangedco workers carried out a trimming down exercise on many streets in Srinivasa Nagar and Kumaran Nagar about a week ago. The branches are not yet cleared. Neither Tangedco nor Tiruchi Corporation bothers to clear them. “It has become a perennial problem. We have to wait for weeks to remove the dried foliage by the corporation workers. They remove the fallen branches only after much persuasion. By the time they collect the foliage, it clogs the drains,” says S. Boopathi, a resident of Srinivasa Nagar. He said that many residents, who had raised trees, felled them due to problems faced in disposing the dried leaves. The corporation should devise a mechanism to remove foliage by coordinating with the Tangedco, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-cuts-roadside-trees-but-foliage-remains-uncleared-for-days/article36816349.ece
04 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||ASI proposes to take over early Chola period temple for conservation||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has proposed to take over the Pullamangai Temple, considered an architectural marvel of early Chola period in Thanjavur district, so as to take up conservation measures. The temple, also referred to as Thiruvalanthurai Mahadevar Temple, Pullamangai, is situated near Pasupathikoil in Papanasam taluk, about 15 km from Thanjavur. It is also called Sri Brahmapuriswarar/ Pasupatheeswarar Temple. The temple is currently under the control of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. “It is a famous temple known for its sculptures. We have written to the HR&CE Department, offering to take over the temple and conserve it,” T. Arun Raj, Superintending Engineer, ASI, Tiruchi Circle, told The Hindu . Once the HR&CE clearance is obtained, the ASI would begin restoration and conservation works at the temple. The original sanctum sanctorum and ardha mandapa of the temple are believed to have been built during the early part of the 10th century CE during the Chola reign. However, the maha-mandapa and mukha-mandapa can be dated to 18-19th century CE, according to the ASI. The ardha mandapa pillars have sculptures of various dancing scenes and ornamental designs. From the style and architecture, it is inferred that the temple should have been built during Parantaka Chola period. The temple is in Nakara syle and an excellent example of ancient Chola art. The temple is known for its sculptures, including those found on the vimana. Sculptures of Dakshinamurthy, Bikshadanar, Adisheshan, Tripurandaka, Narasimha, Prahaladan, Nandhi, dancing women, musicians and musical instruments and scenes from Ramayana adorn the temple. 21 inscriptions  There are 21 inscriptions engraved on the four walls of the central shrine and the mandapa of the temple. Some of the inscriptions record the grant of land and cows given to the temple for lighting of perpetual lamps in the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-to-take-over-early-chola-period-temple-for-conservation/article36816037.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi’s hospitality industry hit hard by weekend closure of places of worship||The weekend closure of places of worship has hit the hospitality industry hard in Tiruchi. In order to check the spread of COVID-19 during Aadi, a Tamil month that usually attracts hundreds of devotees, mainly women, to Amman and Murugan temples, the State government had initially announced the closure of important temples for a few days in August. It was expected that the restriction would be in place only during the month of Aadi. But the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department subsequently announced that devotees would not be allowed in major temples for three days a week from Friday to Sunday until further orders. Churches and mosques also follow the restriction. The restrictions are in force for more than two months now. Besides all churches and mosques, most of the leading temples in Tiruchi, including Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram, Thayumanaswamy Temple near Teppakulam, have been closed for the public from Friday to Sunday. The restriction has added woes to cab operators, hotels, and restaurants, which had already been hit hard due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. According to sources in the hospitality industry, most hotels and restaurants do good business mainly on weekends, holidays and marriage days. They depend on business travellers on weekdays. Closure of places of worship on weekends has brought down the movement of pilgrims to Tiruchi, which has a number of ancient temples. While many hotels in Tiruchi report just 30% to 40% occupancy on weekends, the business in restaurants has been hit by more than 50%. The cab operators have been severely affected. “Most of the taxis and cabs remain idle since the imposition of the lockdown in March 2020. We receive hardly any booking on weekends. The impact is unimaginable,” says G. K. V. Raju of Ganesh Travels in Srirangam. S. A. Mubashir, vice-president, Tiruchi Tourism Federation, said that most of the hotels and restaurants are yet to resume their operations fully due to national and international travel restrictions. None of the hotels had re-employed their staff strength fully. The weekend closure had only compounded their problems. Stating that the hospitality industry was the most affected due to the pandemic, he said that the weekend closure must be revoked immediately. Instead, the State government should find alternative steps to avoid crowding.  Closure misery The restrictions are in force for more than two months now Hotels and restaurants do good business mainly on weekends Most of the taxis remain idle since imposition of lockdown in March 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchis-hospitality-industry-hit-hard-by-weekend-closure-of-places-of-worship/article36816028.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 new cases in delta region again||The central region reported 314 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, continuing the trend of rise in infections. The number of patients who succumbed to the illness also witnessed an increase. Nine patients died of the viral infection - two each in Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts and one death each in Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur district continues to report a high number of fresh cases. On Sunday, 94 patients reported positive in the district. Tiruvarur district reported a sudden spike yet again, with 58 fresh cases being recorded. Meanwhile, as many as 51 cases were reported in Tiruchi. Nagapattinam reported 31 fresh cases, while Mayiladuthurai reported 28, and Pudukottai, 23. Karur reported 20 cases. Both Ariyalur and Karur districts reported seven cases each, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-new-cases-in-delta-region-again/article36816030.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||YoutTube channel launched to carry forward old age wisdom||‘Digital equity for all ages,’ the theme of the International Day of Older Persons, got reflected in Tiruchi on Friday through the launch of ‘Narai Oviyam,’ a YouTube channel conceptualised as an exclusive platform for expression of the wisdom of older generations, by Anbalayam service organisation. Often ignored at all levels right from family to society, and left to lead lives in isolation and loneliness, elderly people will, through ‘Narai Oviyam,’ be able to share their rich experiences that would be of immense utility for course correction of the future of the current generation, according to Anbalayam founder T. K. S. Senthil Kumar. Anbalayam will shortly organise competitions with the YouTube channel as the platform to motivate children to shoot videos of elders in families or neighbourhood depicting their precious memories of the eventful journey of their lives, Mr. Senthil Kumar said. Launching the YouTube channel, film director Prabu Solomon said that it was a felt need for resetting the rapidly deteriorating value systems. It is only after interactions with aged people that one realises their value as living encyclopaedias, he said. Presiding over, G. Ravindran, formerly Head of the Department of English, St. Joseph's College, said that the YouTube channel would be an effective outlet for the elderly people to establish their relevance in the society. Highlighting the role of law and order machinery for the well-being of the elderly people, Abdul Gafoor, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Golden Rock, said that the police department was keenly monitoring their safety on a door-to-door basis. The secretary of The Hindu Mission Hospital, V. V. Subramanian, and Olympian Dhanalakshmi Sekar also felicitated a gathering of senior citizens on the occasion. Meanwhile, a function was organised by the Department of Social Welfare at Vidivelli Home for the Aged in Marungapuri taluk. Collector S. Sivarasu honoured inmates over the age of 80 years with shawls and handed over prizes for winners of the competitions conducted by the department to commemorate the day. A special medical camp was conducted for the aged inmates. Social Welfare Officer Thamimunisa and other senior officials took part.  Competitions with the YouTube channel as platform to motivate children to shoot videos of elders depicting their precious memories to be organised T. K. S. Senthil Kumar Anbalayam founder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youttube-channel-launched-to-carry-forward-old-age-wisdom/article36816035.ece
04 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||SFI announces protest for abolition of NEET||The Students Federation of India (SFI) on Sunday announced its plan to hold a demonstration in front of the Raj Bhavan in Chennai to demand the scrapping of the NEET. At its State-level NEET-abolition conference in Tiruchi, SFI State secretary V. Mariappan contended that the NEET favoured students of CBSE schools. The conference began with a homage to 21 students, who died by suicide allegedly due to NEET-induced fear. Members of Parliament S. Venkatesan and Tiruchi N. Siva; State Platform for Common School System-Tamil Nadu general secretary Prince Gajendra Babu; and representatives of teachers’ organisations and welfare organisations addressed the conference. The speakers questioned the rationale behind continuance of the system that permitted those who had cleared the NEET by spending hefty sums on coaching centres “without even completing the necessities of Plus Two exam”, to secure seats in medical colleges. M. Kannan, SFI state president, presided over the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-announces-protest-on-october-27-for-neet-abolition/article36815950.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife Week celebrated||A cycle rally and a photo exhibition to create awareness among people on the need to conserve and protect wild animals were organised here on Sunday in connection with Wildlife Week celebration. Collector S. Sivarasu flagged off the cycle rally at the Collectorate in the presence of Chief Conservator of Forests-Tiruchi N. Satish and District Forest Officer G. Kiran. Photo exhibition A group of college students participated in the cycle rally which covered Tiruchi railway junction and Head Post Office and culminated at Bishop Heber College where a photo exhibition on wild animals was organised for students and the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rally-photo-expo-mark-wildlife-week-celebration/article36816033.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Fill vacancies’||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Postgraduate Teachers Association (TNDA PGTA) has demanded that vacancies in Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools be filled before reopening them. Heads of the Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools put forth this demand at a meeting here. Addressing the media, they said that the officers in the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department should be appointed, matching their qualifications. In line with the announcement made by the Tamil Nadu government that a transparent monitoring system would be created for schools, the District Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer has been appointed as the monitoring officer for Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools. However, the officers are not qualified to inspect, they said. “As of now, the officers do not require a B.Ed. We oppose this move and suggest that either someone with necessary educational qualifications or seniority be appointed,” M. Selvakumar, district president, TNGA PGTA, said. A Chief Education Officer specifically for Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools must be appointed. The members also sought CM’s intervention in filling up vacancies in the department that should include a posting of an Assistant Director. The School Education Department announced that 2,027 vacancies would be filled. However, there is no mention of strengthening manpower in the Adi Dravida Welfare Schools where 112 teaching vacancies exist, Mr. Selvakumar said. The association also called for instituting an award recognising the efforts made by teachers at the Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools and name it after Dr. Ambedkar, similar to the ones awarded by the School Education Department to appreciate and motivate the teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-vacancies-in-adi-dravidar-welfare-schools/article36816351.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bathing ghat cleaned up||Exnora International Tiruchi and Inner Wheel District 321 has cleaned up the Kambarasampettai bathing ghat. The members decided to make the most accessible ghat in the city plastic-free, clean and hygienic. The ghat, only six km from the city on the Tiruchi-Karur highway, was ill-maintained. Devotees and tourists had discarded plastic waste, bottles, building debris among other items on the Cauvery embankment and created an unhygienic environment. Exnora International Tiruchi and Inner Wheel District 321 sought the permission of the PWD and undertook the exercise recently, said Kalavathy Shanmugham, vice-president, Tiruchi District Exnora. The volunteers cleared plastic materials, weeds and bushes for a distance of 15 metres on either side of the bathing ghat, and placed placards with slogans appealing to the bathers to discard oil bottles, plastic sachets, soap wrappers etc., inside a bin placed close-by. To commemorate the completion of the event, a mahadeepam was lit at the bathing ghat and over 50 lamps were floated in the river by the devotees in the presence of representatives of the PWD, Tiruchi District Exnora and Inner Wheel 321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bathing-ghat-cleaned-up/article36816041.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man, son electrocuted||A bus conductor of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and his son were electrocuted at Agarapettai village in neighbouring Thanjavur district in the early hours of Sunday. Police gave the names of the deceased as Duraikannan, 50, and his son Premkumar, 22. Police sources said that the overhead electric wire connected to the house of Duraikannan got snapped apparently due to a strong wind followed by rain on late Saturday leading to disruption of power. Duraikannan, who came out of his house in the early hours of Sunday, reportedly touched the snapped live wire and suffered electric shock. Duraikannan’s son who came to the rescue of his father also suffered shock. Both died on the spot. The Thogur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-son-electrocuted/article36816043.ece
04 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 73.94 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 13,659 cusecs and the discharge was 5,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36816046.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Some policy decisions led to poll debacle: OPS||The AIADMK, which was in power continuously for 10 years since 2011, lost the last Assembly elections to the DMK due to some policy decisions taken by the party, its coordinator O. Panneerselvam said. However, he did not elaborate on the “policy decisions.” Addressing the party workers’ meet held at Ponnakudi near here on Sunday evening, Mr. Panneerselvam said the AIADMK had lost the winning prospects due to policy decisions as well as the DMK’s 505 fake poll promises. DMK president M.K. Stalin and his son Udhayanidhi Stalin could not fulfil those promises like NEET abolition, fuel price reduction, monthly incentive of Rs. 1,000 to the housewives etc. after coming to power. To make the situation worse, the State’s law and order situation was in dire straits that had resulted in unprecedented rise in crime cases in Tamil Nadu. The DMK had no far-sighted schemes and strategies for sustaining the State’s numero uno position, he said. The DMK, which did not worry about the gazette notification of Cauvery Water Management Authority’s final award even though its ally, the Congress, was in power at the Centre in 2007, was unable to fulfill its poll promises. “So, I appeal to every AIADMK worker to work hard for the victory of AIADMK candidates by taking the DMK’s failure to the people,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. Listing out the AIADMK’s “achievements” during its rule from 2011 to 2021, Mr. Paneerselvam said the party should register a resounding victory in the upcoming civic polls even as the AIADMK was entering its 50th year on October 16. When party’s joint coordinator and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Edappadi K. Palaniswami addressed the party workers in Palayamkottai on September 23 last in a bid to ignite them ahead of the civic polls, Mr. Panneerselvam did not accompany him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-policy-decisions-led-to-poll-debacle-panneerselvam/article36815956.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Governments should allocate sufficient funds to civic bodies’||The Central and the State Governments should allocate more funds to the rural civic bodies for strengthening infrastructure at the grassroots level, CPI (M) politburo member G. Ramakrishnan said. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishnan, who had come here for electioneering for the rural local body elections to be held in two phases on October 6 and 9, said the State and the Central Governments should allocate sufficient funds to benefit the rural population. Since reservation had been ensured in the positions of the local bodies for women and Dalits as per the Act enacted in 1992, they should occupy these positions to give efficient and transparent administration without the influence of others. Mr. Ramakrishnan said the BJP, which came to power in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and even in Puducherry through ‘back door’ operations, could never succeed by means of similar attempts in Tamil Nadu. The leader lauded the DMK’s rule saying that the State Government was implementing a range of ‘people-welfare’ schemes. “The most important welfare scheme was 7.50% reservation given to government school students in engineering admission and the decision to bear their tuition fee,” Mr. Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-states-should-allocate-sufficient-funds-to-civic-bodies/article36816064.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Increase MNREGA days to 300: Krishnasamy||Besides increasing the number of ‘working days’ under the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act from the existing 100 days to 300 days, the scheme should be extended to town panchayats and municipalities also, Puthiya Thamizhagam president K. Krishnasamy has said. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday Dr. Krishnasamy, who had camped here for canvassing votes for his party cadres contesting the rural civic polls, said the Indian Constitution, which had discussed at length the freedom of expression, had not mentioned anything about the downtrodden section’s ‘right to live’ by guaranteeing employment to them as livelihood was more important. Dr. Krishnasamy said the State Election Commission should conduct the rural civic polls in the nine districts “as per law” and give more time to the candidates for electioneering. He demanded a fresh inquiry into the death of P. Ramkumar, who allegedly committed suicide by biting live electric wire in the Puzhal Central Prison in September 2016 after being arrested in the murder case of Infosys techie Swathi at Nungambakkam railway station on June 24, 2016. “Since the histopathology experts have reportedly deposed before the State Human Rights Commission that there was no evidence of death by electric shock, we demand fresh probe into this mysterious death,” Dr. Krishnasamy said. The PT president canvassed votes for his party cadres contesting the rural civic polls in Kammaalankulam, Sethurayanpudhur, Nariyooththu, Thulukkarpatti, Achchampatti and Thenkalampudhur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-mnrega-days-to-300-says-krishnasamy/article36816058.ece
04 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Sunday stood at 86.80 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 646.30 cusecs and 504.25 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 63.65 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 127 cusecs and no water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36816355.ece
04 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac outlet supervisor suspended||A supervisor of a Tasmac outlet within the Corporation limits was placed under suspension on Saturday on charges of misappropriation of funds. Official sources said that the District Manager conducted a surprise audit at Tasmac outlet no. 1929 on Union Mill Road recently and found that Rs. 1.2 lakh of the total revenue was missing. Following this, the outlet’s supervisor Thirumurugan was placed under suspension until further orders. Authorities lodged a complaint at the Tiruppur North police station, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-outlet-supervisor-suspended/article36815978.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extended till October 10||Rising Covid-19 cases in the temple town has made the Tiruvannamalai district administration tighten the existing lockdown by extending the closure of parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and neighbouring Kattam Poondi in the district up to October 10. The extension of the lockdown restrictions was announced by the Collector, B. Murugesh, on Sunday. The extension of the existing restrictions and vaccination camps are mainly to prevent the spread of the infection in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extended-till-october-10/article36816303.ece
04 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over one lakh persons given jabs at mega vaccination camp in four districts||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur vaccinated more than one lakh persons in 2,894 camps held across these four districts as part of the fourth mega vaccination camp from 7 a.m. to and 7 p.m. on Sunday. Among the four districts, Tiruvannamalai had set up 1,017 camps, the highest number, vaccinating around 60,000 persons, including 20,772 persons from Cheyyar block. This is less than the number of persons who got vaccinated in the third mega camp held on September 26 where 64,321 persons, including 27,197 persons from Cheyyar block got their jab. At present, the district has 19.62 lakh persons in the 18 years and above age group. So far, more than 12 lakh persons have been vaccinated in Tiruvannamalai at the end of the fourth mega camp. “Along with vaccination camps, we have also tightened the existing lockdown restrictions to prevent the infection,” said Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh. In Vellore, 801 camps (804 camps were conducted in the third mega camp) were organised for the fourth mega vaccination drive covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities with a total staff 800 persons. Apart from government staff, more than 6,000 teachers were also roped in for the mega camp in the district. The district has a total eligible population of 13 lakh persons, who can be vaccinated. In Vellore, more than 32,000 persons were vaccinated. The newly-formed Tirupattur and Ranipet districts organised 526 and 550 camps covering 18,500 and 22,088 persons respectively during the fourth camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-one-lakh-persons-given-jabs-at-mega-vaccination-camp-in-four-districts/article36816302.ece
04 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district records 15 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,439 with 15 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 48,081 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 235. The district's death toll is 1,123. In Ranipet district, 18 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,100. In Tirupattur district, 19 new cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,051. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 25, taking the total number of cases to 54,424. Out of this, 53,417 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 342.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-15-new-cases/article36816304.ece
04 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram Collector inspects counting centre||District Election Officer and Collector D. Mohan, on Sunday, inspected the arrangements at the counting centre set up at Aravindar Government Arts and Science College in Vanur in Villupuram, for the forthcoming rural local body polls. Mr. Mohan, accompanied by senior officials, checked the availability of basic amenities like power and water and counting halls. He also reviewed the security arrangements at the centre. He directed officials to strengthen security and ensure cameras were installed inside the booths to ensure free and fair elections. The district will witness elections to 6,097 posts in two phases on October 6 and 9. Mr. Mohan said 2,948 polling booths had been set up across the district for the rural local body polls. Of these, 694 booths have been identified as vulnerable and critical. As per the voter list, 13,83,687 rural voters in the district will be exercising their franchise. There are 6,87,420 male voters; 6,96,115 female voters and 152 others. Sources said that the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission had made one dose of COVID-19 vaccination mandatory for the agents of candidates to take up polling and counting work during the poll. The agents will identify voters at the polling booths on polling day and would follow counting of votes on the day of counting. COVID-19 appropriate behaviour will be strictly maintained at the counting centres and those with the election counting pass will have to wear face masks and maintain physical distancing, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-collector-inspects-counting-centre/article36816313.ece
04 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||51,863 vaccinated in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district administered 51,863 doses of COVID-19 vaccination on Sunday during the fourth mega vaccination as against the 71,560 planned. The district achieved 72% of the target. While 22,268 doses were administered under Virudhunagar Health Unit District through 468 booths, 29,595 doses were administered under Sivakasi HUD through 487 booths. Till date, the district has given first dose to 9,91,424 people and the second dose to 3,44,641, totaling 13,36,065 doses. Madurai Madurai district administered 67,096 doses on Sunday. This included 37,836 doses in rural areas, 27,428 doses in Corporation limits, 1,218 doses in Government Rajaji Hospital and 614 doses in other government hospitals. Theni Theni district administered 18,028 first doses and 15,279 second doses, totaling 33,307 doses on Sunday. This included 178 differently abled people in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/51863-people-vaccinated/article36816069.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘The psychological well-being of students is equally important’||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to permit schools to resume in-person learning for Classes I-VIII from November 1 in view of the “drastic reduction” in the COVID-19 infection rate. Citing the view of the WHO on the psychological well-being of students, School Education Minister  Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi  contends that school reopening would address the issue because schools remained closed for 18 months. “Parents of small children, who are fully vaccinated, can sit with them in the classroom and leave when they feel like leaving,” he said in an interview on Sunday. Edited excerpts:  Does the government’s decision to reopen schools for Classes I-VIII indicate that the threat from COVID-19 is over? The Chief Minister took the decision after taking into account the opinion of the Health Department, public health experts and Chief Educational Officers (CEOs). The School Education Department constantly reviewed the situation with the CEOs and we submitted a report, based on their opinion, to the Chief Minister. Health experts also felt that the students had developed resistance to the infection. Now, we have one month, and are using the period to prepare the schools for in-person learning. There will be a mass cleaning and sanitation programme to create a safe and clean environment and classrooms. Children who have attended only online classes for LKG and UKG are going to enter the classrooms for the first time. But we are not going to compel them to sit in the classrooms throughout the school hours. Parents, who are fully vaccinated, can sit with their children and leave the classroom if they are not comfortable. There is a view that while children may have developed resistance, they could still remain carriers of the novel coronavirus... What is equally important is the psychological well-being of children. Schools have not been functioning for the last 18 months, and there is a huge learning loss. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan has pointed out that children have the same amount of antibody exposure as adults. She has said that while we have shut schools saying children should not be exposed to the virus, there has been community exposure because children have been doing other activities. They have been going to malls and playing outside, and are around their families. The WHO has made out a strong case for the reopening of schools, saying that there would not be much chance of the infection spreading. Board examinations were not conducted for Class X and XII students last year. Will you be able to conduct the examinations this academic year? Our primary focus is on students of Class X, XI and XII. We are conducting quiz-type multiple-choice examinations periodically to keep them abreast of the teaching in the classroom and prepare them for the final examinations. We are not sure whether we will be in a position to conduct the quarterly and half-yearly examinations. The School Education Department, however, will conduct a combined examination in December and prepare them for the final examinations in March. You said in the Assembly that the ruling DMK would make government schools a symbol of pride. How are you going to achieve it? The School Education Department lost its focus in the last 10 years. Government schools came down in the estimation of people. Samacheer Kalvi [the common syllabus] was introduced by the DMK government [of 2006-11] to remove the inequalities in school education. There were matriculation schools, Anglo-Indian schools and Oriental schools. Our leader Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] went ahead with reforms to school education. My predecessor Thangam Thennarasu played an important role in the smooth transition. After returning to power, we have initiated many measures, and there is an increase in the number of students who are joining government schools. It is a healthy trend. How do you expect parents to send their children to government schools when those who are working in government departments or teaching at government schools are not doing so? We cannot compel anyone to send his/her children to government schools. But we will improve the standards and that will make people change their opinion of government schools. It will happen soon.  We are not sure whether we will be in a position to conduct the quarterly and half-yearly examinations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-psychological-well-being-of-students-is-equally-important/article36815942.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||158 positive cases in Coimbatore||A total of 158 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, registering a decline from Saturday’s 163 cases. The district had 1,941 active cases of the disease and 206 persons recovered on Sunday. A 61-year-old man died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Friday, taking the district’s death toll to 2,343. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.5 % on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 76 new cases . While 11 persons recovered from the disease, 855 were under medical care. A 61-year-old woman from Tiruppur died on Saturday. Tiruppur district’s death toll stood at 956 on Sunday. It had a TPR of 1.6 % on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 38 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 32,846.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/158-positive-cases-in-coimbatore/article36815975.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Motorists hit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorists-hit/article36815983.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forests and livelihoods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forests-and-livelihoods/article36816238.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail-DGL||It was surprising to read that only 1.3 lakh fatalities have occurred on Indian roads last year. It must be much higher, taking into account these matters: a two-wheeler rider gets a driving licence just by proving his competence by ‘doing an 8’ in front of the licensing authority; the driving schools churn out drivers without road sense; overloading is the norm, etc. So, insurance companies, which should be the sufferers in the present scenario, should be made to make the aspiring drivers undergo more vigerous tests, as in other countries, before licences are issued. G. S. Mani Kodaikanal   Rainwater gets stagnated at the junction of Mandayan Sandhu and Swami Vivekanandar Salai in Ramanathapuram. The chamber constructed to collect rainwater is filled with mud and soil which blocks the rainwater from flowing onwards through Savariyar Kovil Street. I appeal to the authorities to clear the the path for rainwater to reach its destination. Asmabagh Anvardeen Ramanathapuram   The Paramakudi municipality lets drainage water into the Vaigai river, leading to contamination of groundwater. It also leads to pollution of the drinking water. I appeal to the municipal authorities to establish a sewage treatment plant to prevent contamination of groundwater. V. Rajendran Paramakudi   Though Southern Railway has completed gauge conversion on Tiruvarur - Karaikudi; Dindigul - Pollachi - Coimbatore; Tirunelveli - Tenkasi; and Virudhunagar - Karaikudi stretches over the past few years, very few trains are operated on these sections. Madurai -Theni section remains unused. Moreover, despite receiving sanction from the Railway Board, Southern Railway is yet to operate the Tambaram - Tirunelveli weekly, Velankanni -Ernalulam biweekly and Chennai Central - Nagercoil triweekly express trains. Although representations were sent to change the timings of the Nagercoil - Bengaluru Express and Nagercoil - Coimbatore Express to suit the convenience of people boarding these trains at intermidiary stations, it has not been done. District Railway Users’ Association Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article36816072.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - City 03 Oct 2021||The Tambaram - Nagercoil Antyodaya Express is detained between Dindigul and Madurai for an hour while Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram Intercity Express overtakes it. Antyodaya Express being an overnight long-distance train, should reach Nagercoil earlier for the convenience of passengers. So the Southern Railway should change the timing and give priority to Antyodaya Express. C. A. Pradeep Moondrumavadi   This is with reference to the recent report on the address to medical graduates by Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. He exhorted them to adopt an empathetic attitude towards patients and listen patiently to find solutions to their problems. Conflicts in personal and social relationships arise mainly from misunderstanding of the other person. The ability to know how another person feels not only from spoken language but also through gestures, tone of voice and facial expressions will enable a meaningful relationship within family and outside home. Empathy brings out one’s humane character. K. Natarajan Tahsildar Nagar   Vaccines for infants are out of stock at Primary Health Centres. I took my 50-day-old child to the balwadi in Tirunagar for the first vaccination recently. I was told that there was no vaccine and they had no idea when they will get the supply. The situation was the same at another balwadi nearby, and at two other centres in Tirupparankundram. On learning that it was available in Vilachery, I went there. Here, the nurse first refused to administer the vaccine since we were not from that area. After much pleading, she administered all vaccines except one, which was luckily available in our area. While appreciating the State government for making every effort for total COVID-19 vaccination, I request that vaccines for infants be made available also everywhere. D. Ganesh Tirunagar   News of youths and children getting drowned in river, ‘kanmois’ and wells are reported often these days. Valuable lives are lost this way, only because the victims did not know swimming. So there must be a system in place wherein all children learn swimming, say under the guidance of Fire Rescue and Services personnel. M. Sundararajan Surveyor Colony   Though the Southern Railway has completed gauge conversion on Tiruvarur - Karaikudi; Dindigul - Pollachi - Coimbatore; Tirunelveli - Tenkasi; and Virudhunagar - Karaikudi stretches over the past few years, very few trains are operated on these sections. Madurai -Theni section remains unused. Moreover, despite receiving sanction from the Railway Board, the Southern Railway is yet to operate the Tambaram - Tirunelveli weekly, Velankanni -Ernalulam biweekly and Chennai Central - Nagercoil triweekly express trains. Although representations were sent to change the timings of the Nagercoil - Bengaluru Express and Nagercoil - Coimbatore Express to suit the convenience of people boarding these trains at intermediary stations, it has not been done. District Railway Users’ Association Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-city-03-oct-2021/article36816245.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - TVL||It is learnt that Indian Air Force inspected an airfield at Kayathar constructed by the British during Second World War II. The 16-acre land remains unused. The only air base available to protect the VOC Port in Thoothukudi is in Chennai. In case of an emergency, a quick air combat cannot be carried out. An IAF facility near Thoothukudi is needed to safeguard our maritime interests and boundaries. Kayathar is an ideal choice for the same because of its strategic location near the port. A. M. N. Pandian,  Tirunelveli.   Though Southern Railway completed gauge conversion on Tiruvarur-Karaikudi; Dindigul-Pollachi - Coimbatore; Tirunelveli - Tenkasi; and Virudhunagar - Karaikudi stretches over the past few years, a very few trains are operated in these sections. Madurai-Theni section remains unused. Moreover, despite receiving sanction from the Railway Board, Southern Railway is yet to operate Tambaram-Tirunelveli weekly, Velankanni-Ernalulam biweekly and Chennai Central-Nagercoil triweekly express trains. Although representations were sent to change the timings of the Nagercoil-Bengaluru Express and Nagercoil-Coimbatore Express to suit the convenience of people boarding these trains at intermediary stations, it has not been done. District Railway Users’ Association, Nagercoil.   There is a wild growth of parthenium plants, an invasive species, on the road margins of Agasteeswaram in Kanniyakumari district. If pedestrians make contacts with the plants by mistake, they will have itching on the skin. So, these plants must be destroyed completely by spraying a herbicide or something so that they will not germinate again. K. Chelliah, Aundivilai.   The previous State government increased the vacant land approval rate to an exorbitant level - Rs. 2,500 for a cent in village panchayats and Rs. 25,000 in municipal and corporation limits. People could ill-afford such high rates. Further, before the end of its tenure, it stopped granting approval to vacant lands altogether. After the present party came to power, contrary to popular expectations, the status quo continues. As things stand, people are unable to construct houses on their plots as land approval is indispensable for getting loans. The government should lift the order and reduce the rates. E. Rajamani Chelladurai, Tirunelveli.   This has reference to the news ‘All waterways, channels being cleaned In Thoothukudi.’ The Thoothukudi MP insisted that it is the responsibility of residents to keep the channels free of garbage. The waterways may get blocked before the arrival of monsoon due to negligent behaviour of residents. Garbage collection by corporation mini-trucks is almost regular. As an additional measure, huge dumper bins may be placed in residential areas. A fine should be slapped on those who dump waste in the open. J. Edison Devakaram, Thoothukudi.   An overbridge across Kulavanigarpuram railway gate in Palayamkottai was proposed in 2011, but nothing happened since then. Whenever the gates are closed, there are long queues of vehicles on either side. People are forced to endure this ordeal. The Smart City scheme in Tirunelveli will become a laughing stock if this anomaly is not set right because this is the road that connects the two newly built Smart City bus stations at Palayamkottai and Veinthankulam. I request authorities to implement the long-pending overbridge project. Rajakumar Arulanandham, Palayamkottai.   After a median was constructed between the Samathanapuram signal and the District Court, traffic flow has been streamlined. A similar median is needed between the Murugankurichi signal and the Kulavanigarpuram railway gate. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-tvl/article36816357.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Presence of a few electric poles right on the road near Skithambur Palaiyam village along Thuraiyur-Athur State Highway poses risk of accident for motorists. Petitions submitted to the State Highways and Tangedco have not yet been acted upon. The risk of accidents is higher when two heavy vehicles cross the spot where about five such electric posts are erected. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti   Maintenance of Anna Nagar Park opposite to Ukkira Kaliamman Temple leaves much to be desired. Creaky sounds are heard when the play equipment in the park are used by children. The park is also frequented by elderly people for their walk. They expect the civic body to take prompt action. M. Raja, Tiruchi   Motorcycle racing is becoming noticeable again after a short gap in Thillai Nagar area. Earlier, it was confined to Shastri Road. The authorities must step in to curb the menace that haunts the public along the stretch of Kohinoor Theatre to 11th Cross, and the roads connecting Shastri Road and Thillai Nagar Main Road at the seventh, fifth and first cross roads. A. V. Narayanan, Thillai Nagar   Now that the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions have been lifted, most of the main roads in Srirangam are flooded with vehicles, particularly along Gandhi Road, Amma Mandapam Road and Raghavendra Road. Steps need to be initiated early on to prevent crowding of people. Eateries that have come up on Gandhi Road add to the chaos due to parking of vehicles on the narrow roads. Parking of vehicles must be banned and fines imposed on violators. T. M. Ranganathan, Srirangam   Paddy procurement for the coming samba season through e-DPCs by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation is a welcome decision as it will mitigate the sufferings of farmers of delta region. Farmers hitherto had to put up with unpleasant behaviour of officials at DPCs. To obviate the sufferings caused to the farmers due to vagaries of Nature, the TNCSC should strengthen the storage infrastructure alongside ensuring optimum utility of the dryers to reduce the moisture content of grain. The Corporation must find ways to procure paddy from the fields, and the farmers will be prepared to share transport costs if the volume is high. N. V. Thiyagarajan, Kumbakonam   The five-minute yoga breaks between classes and government offices advocated by the Central government will be beneficial for stepping up productivity in the context of stress caused by the COVID-19 lockdown since March 2020. Simple yoga practices can be followed in classrooms and playgrounds for better mind control. Laughter therapy would also refresh the mind. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram   The demand of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Employees Union for the opening of old bus stand is justified. The corporation has to act on the demand, promptly factoring in the needs of travelling public ahead of Deepavali. S. Sethuraman, Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article36816040.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||04-10-2021-city-cinema||MISCELLANEOUS SHAKUNTHALA ART GALLERY C.P. ART CENTRE 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai - 600 018 Exhibition of NAVARATRI KOLU - Dolls made of Clay and Papier mache. From Today to October 13, 2021, 10 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/04-10-2021-city-cinema/article36815922.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts & Science for Women: Session on Applications and Recreational Problems in Graph Theory, 11 a.m.; PG orientation programme, 9.30 a.m., seminar hall||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article36815980.ece
04 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Multilingual platform for arts and culture launched in Belagavi||Rostrum Diaries, an umbrella association of poets, artists, singers, theatre personalities, and handicraft promoters, launched ‘GubbiBoo’, a multi-lingual platform for performing arts, in Belagavi on Saturday. Most of the guests who spoke at the event at the Eefa Hotel, felt there was an urgent need for such a venture in Belagavi that is home to people who speak many languages. “Belagavi has a unique blend flavours of literature, music, and art. Organisations like Rostrum Diaries are working towards nurturing this confluence, said Rajesh Kumar Maurya,” director, Sambra airport at Belagavi. “There is no dearth of talent in the city. What we need is a platform to bring out the talent among the youth,” said Madhav Prabhu, one of the mentors of Rostrum Diaries. “GubbiBoo is a venture for promotion of arts and crafts. It can also be a tool used to educate people about the happenings around them,” Abhishek Bendigeri, curator, said at the launch event. The guests also launched The Artly Times — a digital magazine to promote various kinds of visual and performing arts. “We are trying to shape the magazine into an international platform for performers. We plan to publish interviews of artists, introductions to art forms, insights on performing and fine arts, focus on new talent and display of artwork. In a way, Artly Times is the brewery for all this,” Mr Bendigeri said. The open mic sessions included poets in Kannada, Hindi, Urdu, and English. Writers Anand Mensi, Minaz Tahsildar, Vaishnavi Kudachi, Lehar Srivastav, Veerkumar Patil, Sagar Belgundkar, Rashmi Angadi, and others recited their poems. NGO Pankh put up a stall of products made by women artisans. Educationist Vinod Doddannavar, poet Marie Raghavan, writer Laxmi Tendulkar, writer Sidharth Vaddennavar, content creator Swati Jog, philanthropist Sonali Sarnobat, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/multilingual-platform-for-arts-and-culture-launched-in-belagavi/article36816091.ece
04 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Khanapur murder: Railway police take 8 people into custody||The railway police have taken eight people into custody for their alleged involvement in the murder of Arbaz Aftab Mulla, a car dealer from Khanapur. The victim was killed, allegedly by members of Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, who had complained to his mother that he was in love with a Hindu girl. The police have also seized an ambulance with the words ‘Sri Ram Sena Hindustan’ on its windshield from near the scene of crime. The 24-year-old’s mutilated body was found on the railway tracks between Desur and Khanapur on September 28. His hands were tied, and head and one leg severed from his body and thrown between the tracks. The body was thrown at a distance from the tracks. A railway guard who saw the body found a phone inthe pocket. He called the victim’s mother, Najeema Sheikh, and informed her about the incident. She rushed to the spot and identified the body. Life threat Ms. Sheikh told The Hindu that some persons who introduced themselves as social activists had been threatening her son. In her police complaint, she alleged that the girl’s father, social activist Pundalik Maharaj, and his follower Birje had killed her son. Police sources confirmed that those rounded up included these three persons. Ms. Sheikh, a government school teacher, told The Hindu that Maharaj and his associates had sought “settlement money” from her son. “He had paid them Rs. 7,000 on the day of settlement. But they kept demanding more money. My son told me that they were seeking Rs. 90,000 from him. I had told him to pay it off and forget the whole issue. He was arranging the money.” “After my husband passed away, I lived with my mother and my son. My daughter is settled in England after her marriage. My son was an engineer and was doing well in the car resale business. Now, my only source of support has been snatched away,” she said. She alleged that Maharaj had given her and Arbaz life threats. “Maharaj told me that he had 40 pending cases against him and that he would not bother if he got another case. We were terrified. Maharaj called us to Khanapur to face trial before a huge crowd of SRS supporters. But when we went, there were only a few persons, along with the girl’s father. I told the father that I had spoken to the girl’s mother and we had decided to end the relationship. When the families had taken a decision, what was the need for outsiders to interfere? When I raised this question, Maharaj got angry and said that a Muslim boy having a relationship with a Hindu girl was not acceptable to their principles and that they would enforce their rules on us. But I did not know that they would go to the extent of killing my son,” she said. “I will fight a legal battle to see that the offenders are punished.” The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will hold a protest rally on Friday, if the culprits are not arrested before Wednesday. “We are planning to invite Asaduddin Owaisi, MP and AIMIM president,” Latif Khan Pathan, State general secretary of the organisation told journalists in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khanapur-murder-railway-police-take-8-people-into-custody/article36815889.ece
04 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man rescued from nearly 140-feet ditch||Personnel from the district police and the Fire and Emergency Services on Sunday morning rescued a man who had slipped into a ditch near the Gokak falls. Pradeep Kumar Sagar, a banker from Kalaburagi, fell into the ditch on Saturday evening. While trying to take a selfie, he tried to jump from one rock to another and fell into the ditch, estimated to be around 140 feet deep. Mr. Sagar survived the fall and called his friends on his phone. His friends called Ayub Khan, a resident of Gokak who heads a youth organisation. Mr. Khan intimated the police. With the help of Mr. Khan and his friends, the police and the Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued Mr. Sagar. “Mr. Khan asked Mr. Sagar to send his location. This helped us locate him perfectly,” a police officer said. Mr. Sagar was taken to the government hospital in Gokak and later shifted to a private hospital. He had suffered some minor injuries and he is recovering, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-rescued-from-nearly-140-feet-ditch/article36816097.ece
04 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Konkani website launched||Vikram Amathe, Deputy Commissioner of Police, launched E-Uzwaad, a Konkani website dedicated to the promotion of Konkani, in Belagavi on Sunday. Louis Rodrigues, editor of the site, said it would carry current affairs news, national and international developments, opinions by experts about various issues affecting the common man, developments related to the Konkani linguistic community, apart from stories on arts and literature. The portal, www.euzwaad.com, was the electronic form of Uzwaad, a Konkani magazine that is celebrating its silver jubilee, he said. He claimed it was the first such website in northern Karnataka. Anil Patil, president of IMA, said Konkani is described as a soft language. “Konkani speakers are found across the country. They have amalgamated themselves with different languages and cultures in the region. Despite staying in different states, they retain the love for their mothertongue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konkani-website-launched/article36816096.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Legal wrangles hold up ‘B’ Khata conversions||Though it was first proposed in 2018, lakhs of citizens are still waiting for the civic body to regularise their properties from ‘B’ Khata to ‘A’ Khata. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had proposed to delink ‘B’ Khata from Akrama-Sakrama. This way, it would be able to issue ‘A’ Khata to all the applicable properties, but the proposal is stuck in legal wrangles. Since 2008, the civic body, following directions of the State government, has not been issuing ‘A’ Khata (permanent property record) to properties that are in violation of government regulations. For such properties, for the purpose of tax collection, a separate register was created – B register. However, properties under this register have come to be known as ‘B’ Khata properties. Senior civic officials told The Hindu that the high-level committee chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department, had met a few times to discuss the delinking of the Khata issue from Akrama-Sakrama, which is still pending before the Supreme Court. To make way for the delinking, the State government had amended the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, in March 2018. “The committee has now suggested restricting regularisation (issuing ‘A’ Khata to ‘B’ Khata properties) with the payment of betterment charges to just vacant sites and not include sites with buildings,” an official privy to the development said. This is because regularisation of vacant sites is easier with not many legal hurdles. According to the official, there were more than 5.7 lakh ‘B’ Khata properties in the city, of which at least 1.4 lakh are vacant sites. The regularisation after payment of betterment charge could bring BBMP revenue amounting to Rs. 2,500 crore approximately, the official said. Confirming the development, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the high-level committee had recently sought some clarification on the issue. “The matter is fraught with a lot of issues. It is now up to the government to take a call on the matter,” he added. Leaders of various political parties have sought regularisation of ‘B’ Khata properties in the city in the interest of owners of such properties. Currently, owners of ‘B’ Khata properties cannot avail bank loans, get building plan approvals or occupancy/ completion certificates from the BBMP, sell the property at the prevailing market rates, or divide the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-wrangles-hold-up-b-khata-conversions/article36815860.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No cut in school syllabus this academic year||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided that there will be no cuts in the syllabus for students from Classes I to X for this 2021-22 academic year. Speaking to The Hindu, B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said the decision was taken after consultations with teachers and stakeholders. “During the review meetings, teachers and department officials said that they have completed a significant chunk of the portion for this year as offline classes for upper primary classes and high schools have commenced,” he said. Time for revision The department, however, is still mapping out a plan on how teachers will cover the entire portions for this academic year. Many teachers have also expressed the importance of devoting time to revision of the previous year’s basics and bridge learning as several studies have shown that learning outcomes of students were affected in the previous academic year. During the 2020-21 academic year, the government had reduced the syllabus by 30% for school students as the academic calendar was disrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Impact on quality Not all school managements share the government’s confidence that the syllabus will be covered in its entirety. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said that they had demanded that the syllabus be cut by 15-20% this year too. “If there is no cut in the curriculum we will only be able to teach concepts very superficially. It will adversely impact the quality of teaching and learning,” he said. He also pointed out that there was a significant delay in reopening schools, and it’s only now that schools have been allowed to function for the full day. “Until October, our teaching hours were reduced and we were not able to complete the syllabus,” he said. Many teachers have reportedly told department officials that they would be able to complete the portions only if Saturdays are also made working days. ‘Focus on foundation’ According to education experts, schools should not focus on completing the syllabus but instead ensure that children pick up the foundational skills they have lost in the previous academic year. Nagasimha G. Rao, Director of Child Rights Trust said, “It is important to recognise that a child’s learning levels are not the same and that there is a need to change the structure of this academic year. Teachers should not be in a hurry to complete the syllabus of this academic year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-cut-in-school-syllabus-this-academic-year/article36815873.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Native shade trees in coffee plantations vital for diversity, abundance of birds, says study||Verdant coffee and tea plantations are more than an ideal backdrop for photos; they support a thriving avian population. In a study that underscores the need to understand the patterns and drivers of bird species composition and diversity outside Protected Area (PA) networks to develop landscape-level conservation strategies, researchers found that they varied in differently-managed plantations. The findings were the result of collaborative work by Kannur University, Kerala, Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, Coimbatore, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru, and Ferns Nature Conservation Society, Wayanad. It was published in July 2021. Focussing on the coffee plantations in the Western Ghats, which are an important agro-ecosystem and help maintain a significant portion of regional avian diversity, the researchers compared the composition and functional diversity of resident birds between shade and open coffee plantations. They counted 3,846 birds of 87 species, and found species richness to be higher in shade (78 species) than in open coffee plantations (55 species). “Interestingly, 32 species were unique to shade and nine were unique to open coffee plantations, with 46 species found in both types of plantation. Species richness and abundance were higher in shade coffee,” the study says, adding that the results reveal that different farm management practices can affect functional bird richness and its abundance in coffee plantations. They have made a case for retaining shade-trees of native varieties in coffee plantations to support high functional diversity, richness, and abundance of birds in the coffee plantation of the Western Ghats. The study, ‘Resident birds show different patterns in species composition and functional diversity in differently managed coffee plantations in the Western Ghats, India’, was published by the Ornithological Science journal in July 2021. Speaking to The Hindu, Santhanakrishnan Babu, one of the authors, said the study was conducted between May and August, 2016, in the northern part of Wayanad district. “Wayanad is a major coffee producer, producing 90% of the Kerala’s coffee. Our study aimed to understand how resident birds respond to differently-managed coffee plantations - shade and open,” he said. The Kerala government recently passed an order to chop all resident trees on private land except sandalwood. This will lead to extensive chopping of resident trees from the coffee plantations which will affect biodiversity, he added. Another author Athira S. Variar and Mr. Babu said retaining shade trees of native varieties in coffee plantations is important for supporting high functional diversity, richness, and abundance of birds. “Shade plantations support several habitat specialists and range-restricted birds, and alteration of the canopy and woody plant composition can influence the pattern of the functional composition of resident birds. Since our study covered only one season, year-round study in these plantations may shed more light on the composition of resident, breeding and migratory bird species,” they said.  Conservation strategies They have called for landscape-level conservation strategies. Author Anoop N.R. pointed out that the Forest Department has little authority over the plantations located outside forest areas, and trees in these plantations are increasingly being replaced with exotic trees such as Grevillea robusta. “To promote the protection of large native trees in coffee plantations, we recommend initiating programmes to provide financial incentives to private landowners. Education programmes will also help to improve community support for retaining texisting indigenous tree varieties and promote planting more of the same,” he recommended, adding that a framework needs to be developed with regard to which species can be planted and which must be maintained, or removed, from the plantations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/native-shade-trees-in-coffee-plantations-vital/article36815876.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM announces Rs. 6,000 crore package for city||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, announced a special package of Rs. 6,000 crore under the new Amruta Nagarothana Scheme for the city. The announcement comes in the run-up to the civic polls in the city, expected to be held in early 2022. The Chief Minister, however, did not expand on what projects will be funded by this new scheme. Mr. Bommai, during his maiden Independence Day speech, had announced 11 ‘Amruta’ schemes, totalling to an estimated cost of around Rs. 1,000 crore, to mark the 75th year of Indian Independence. However, that did not include the Amruta Nagarothana Scheme. Urban Development Department officials said it was a rebranding of the existing Nagarothana scheme, where the State government funds urban infrastructure in the city through the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The projects to be taken up under the scheme are being finalised, an officer said.   The Chief Minister also said his government will lay stress on increasing sewage treatment capacity of the city to save lakes. “Removing encroachments, fencing the lakes, and developing walk paths around lakes won’t save them. We need to build Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and ensure untreated sewage is not let into lakes. Our government is committed to this,” he said. He also reiterated his vision of developing a single portal/app where citizens can access all government-related services in the city, hinting at projects the new Rs. 6,000 crore package will probably fund. Mr. Bommai was speaking after inaugurating a slew of development works in Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency represented by Horticulture Minister Munirathna, including a 300-bed hospital and COVID-19 Care Centre in Yeshwantpur, and also laid the foundation stone for a host of works including rejuvenation of Mallathahalli lake, parks, swimming pools, and others on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-announces-rs-6000-crore-package-for-city/article36815857.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Smart Clinics’ to be ready in a month||To ensure that quality healthcare is accessible to all citizens, the existing Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and referral hospitals under BBMP will be converted to ‘Smart Clinics’. Though announced in June last year, not much headway has been made, but officials said that preparations on the new tender were underway and they would be ready in a month. The Smart Clinics will have several digital interventions, including online consultations, three-way counselling/consultations between specialists, PHC doctors and patients, and creating a digital database with complete data of the patients visiting the PHCs. The project, which is being executed by the Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL), is estimated to cost Rs. 24 crore. Admitting to some delay in taking up the project, BSCL officials, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said there were some issues with the earlier tender that had been floated. “Earlier, the Smart Clinics tender was restricted to only the six referral hospitals. We received recommendations and suggestions to integrate all existing health infrastructure facilities of the BBMP. Hence, the tender was cancelled,” officials said. They also said that the new tender, bringing BBMP’s PHCs, referral, and maternity hospitals under the same platform is being worked out. The same, they added, would be ready in another month’s time. According to rough estimates, around 17 lakh citizens, especially those belonging to lower socio-economic groups, visit the 141 PHCs, six referral and around 30 maternity hospitals in the city. With the lack of specialists, many patients are forced to visit private hospitals. “This will not be the case when the Smart Clinics become operational, as for one, they will be open round the clock, and two, audio-visual consultations with specialists from all fields will be possible,” explained Rajendra Cholan, BSCL managing director. He said that already, the Integrated Command Centre had been established for COVID-19 management. The same would be used to integrate all the existing health infrastructure in the BBMP. “Whenever a patient comes to the PHC, the system can immediately generate the patient’s medical history that is stored digitally. The same can be shared with the specialists who will be sitting in the centralised health centre, which will help in medical counselling,” he said, and added that the other added benefit of the system was that patients could also be linked to various other health schemes extended by the Centre and State governments.  It will have digital interventions such as online consultations, consultations between specialists, PHC doctors, and patients, and a digital database of patients visiting the PHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-clinics-to-be-ready-in-a-month/article36815865.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. to select candidates by Oct. 6||The Congress is expected to finalise by Wednesday the names of its candidates for Hangal and Sindgi constituencies, which are set to see bypolls. Party sources said that the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee has sent three names — Srinivas Mane and Manohar Tahsildar for Hangal, and Ashok Managuli for Sindgi — to the party high command to chose from. “We are expecting the high command to clear the names by October 6,” a source said. The KPCC president on Saturday also said that the party’s candidates in Hangal and Sindgi would file their nominations on October 7 and 8, respectively. While Hangal is facing bypolls because of the death of BJP member C.M. Udasi, Sindgi is going to the polls following the death of Janata Dal (S) member M.C. Managuli. Mr. Ashok Managuli, whose name has been suggested by the KPCC, is the son of the late legislator. Meanwhile, the former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy defended his party's choice of candidates for Hangal and Sindgi, which had come under criticism from the Congress that said that Muslim candidates in the fray was a means to divide the minority votes. “I know the ground reality there. I had asked Nazia Angadi to work for the election four months ago. She belongs to a family that has worked for our party. The Hangal candidate Niyaz Sheikh is an M.Tech graduate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-to-select-candidates-by-oct-6/article36815885.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man, sons held for selling opium||The K.R. Puram police have unearthed a drug racket and arrested the owner of a hardware shop and two of his children for allegedly selling opium to clients. After receiving a tip-off, a police team raided the shop located on Kithaganur main road and seized 1.9 kg of opium worth Rs. 36 lakh from them. The police also recovered four mobile phones, which the family used to communicate with their clients and their network. Initial investigation revealed that the prime accused, Boraram, used to source the drugs from his hometown in Rajasthan and sell it to his clients. “Private buses were used to bring the consignments from Rajasthan into the city,” said the police. The police are ascertaining the extent of his network. In his confession, he said that he took to selling drugs over the last one year, but the police suspect that he is an old player with a well-established network. Boraram and his sons, identified as Jitendra and Sunil, have been booked and taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-sons-held-for-selling-opium/article36815858.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS: Ready to go to mental hospital if bed is kept ready||Responding to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who had suggested that he should join a mental hospital, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said he was willing to join the hospital if a bed was kept ready. “If Mr. Eshwarappa keeps a bed ready in a hospital, I will get admitted. We are doing our politics. Why is he afraid?” he asked. “Have we mentioned the name of any one legislator who will join Congress?” he added. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Shivakumar said, “Bharatiya Janata Party president Nalin Kumar Kateel had said that 20 legislators were standing in queue to join the BJP. Another leader said that in 24 hours, five big leaders of the Congress would join the BJP.” Saying that former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy was indulging in politics, he said that he did not fear anyone and the Congress had fought for compensation for those dependent on traditional skills. “If there is any one party that has shared power with backward classes leaders such as Dharam Singh, Siddaramaiah, Veerappa Moily or S. Bangarappa, it is the Congress. Show us one example of the BJP or the JD (S) giving power to those beyond Lingayats or Vokkaligas,” he said. “Whether I shiver or not, Kumaranna knows. He is indulging in politics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-ready-to-go-to-mental-hospital-if-bed-is-kept-ready/article36815886.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shops near educational institutions to ensure that employees are vaccinated||In an attempt to prevent COVID-19 clusters in schools, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has directed all shops and eateries around educational institutions to ensure that their staff are vaccinated. This decision was taken in the wake of around 60 students of Sri Chaitanya Girls’ Residential School, near Electronics City, testing positive for COVID-19 last week. “All the school staff are vaccinated, but students during short breaks or after school hours often visit general stores and eateries to grab some refreshments. We want to ensure that people working there too are vaccinated so that the possibility of students contracting the virus is reduced,” said D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP. Proprietors who don’t comply will be ordered to down shutters until all their staff are vaccinated. Mr. Randeep, however, added that the civic body does not want to close the shops unless absolutely necessary, and that the priority is to ensure that everyone has vaccine coverage. “Our teams will verify this during the block-level vaccination programmes,” he said. The civic body has entrusted the implementation of this order to the nodal officers in schools and the closest Primary Health Centre (PHC). “Nodal officers attached to schools and PHC staff can collaborate and ensure that shopkeepers have only staff who are vaccinated working at their stores,” Mr. Randeep said. Move welcomed The move has been welcomed by school managements, parents and teachers. Ritika S.,a parent of a Class VIII student said, “I have tried to tell my son to immediately return home after classes and not mingle with his classmates. But some days, he needs to get some photocopies and often stops to eat some snacks. It will help if the BBMP can enforce this rule,” she said. School managements have supported the move. “I will ensure that shops and eateries around our school furnish vaccination details of their staff,” said Sumanth Narayana, founder, Shanthinikethana School.  Nodal officers attached to schools and PHC staff can collaborate and ensure that shopkeepers have only staff who are vaccinated working in their stores. D. Randeep Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-near-educational-institutions-to-ensure-employees-are-vaccinated/article36815870.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NAV-eCash card launched onboard INS Vikramaditya||State Bank of India’s NAV-eCash card was launched onboard India’s naval aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya at Karwar recently. A release stated that the card was launched by Flag Officer Commanding-in Chief of Western Naval Command Vice Admiral R. Hari Kumar and SBI managing director (Retail and Digital Banking) C.S. Shetty on Friday. The Digital Banking System in offline mode was conceptualised by a team of officers from INS Vikramaditya. “This is a major milestone in the banking operations with immense potential to be replicated for all ships in sea, remote stations of the armed forces, paramilitary forces, and Indian government organisations,” the release said. It said that the NAV-eCash card would help overcome difficulties faced by personnel on board in handling cash during extended deployments on high seas and even in the harbour. It is a dual chip card that will work both in an offline and online environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nav-ecash-card-launched-onboard-ins-vikramaditya/article36815887.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What is ‘B’ Khata property?||Properties that are in violation of government regulations are registered under B register. Those in the register are called ‘B’ Khata properties. Properties under the B register are either those in unauthorised layouts or on layouts formed on revenue land, buildings that are in violation of the BBMP’s building bylaws, and buildings constructed without building plan approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-is-b-khata-property/article36815854.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UAS-B secures first place||University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru (UAS-B) has secured first position in the ICAR-JRF/SRF 2021 examinations. As many as 38 PG students under agricultural sciences and 10 students under Engineering and Technology Group passed the JRF/SRF exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-b-secures-first-place/article36815853.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for murdering son-in-law||A 46-year-old mechanic was bludgeoned to death by his father in-law in Hennur on Saturday evening. The victim has been identified as Mohammed Mehaboob, a resident of Siddarth Layout. A senior police officer said the incident took place around 7 p.m. Mehaboob was busy at work in the motorcycle garage when Nazeer Ahmed, 56, dropped in. “The two started quarrelling and Nazeer, in a fit of rage, took an iron rod and smashed Mehaboob’s head. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, doctors declared him brought dead,” said a police officer. Nazeer, who has been arrested, is a tailor by profession. Police suspect it to be a case of dowry harassment. Recently, both families had met and Nazeer’s family had agreed to give Mehaboob’s family some money. However, Mehaboob sent his wife back to her house after they failed to meet the deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-murdering-son-in-law/article36815861.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 664 new cases, 8 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 664 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 29,77,889. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for the maximum number of cases at 196 followed by Mysuru with 101 and Dakshina Kannada with 76. With eight deaths reported on Sunday, the toll rose to 37,819. This is apart from 29 patients dying due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 711 persons were discharged across Karnataka. With this, the total recoveries currently stands at 29,27,740.27 lakh. The State now has 12,301 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.52%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.2%. Testing As many as 1.26 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1.05 lakh RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-664-new-cases-8-deaths/article36815871.ece
04 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman fatally hit by MLA’s car||An old woman died after she was hit by a car belonging to Mudigere MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy near Hanumanthapura in Belur taluk on Sunday. She has been identified as Huvamma, 58, wife of Subbe Gowda of Biratemane village. The MLA was not in the car at the time of the accident. Huvamma was on her way home with her son on a two-wheeler when the car hit her. The car was heading to Bengaluru from Mudigere. Praveen, MLA’s driver, was at the wheel. His negligence is said to be the reason for the incident. Belur police seized the car and took the driver into custody. The local people and relatives of the dead alleged that the driver was in an inebriated state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-car-kills-woman/article36815868.ece
04 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police use kits to detect drug consumption||For the first time, Shivamogga police registered cases against two people on charges of consuming contraband after taking their urine samples for a medical test, on Saturday. The offence can attract a penalty up to Rs. 10,000 besides imprisonment of upto six months. B.M.Laxmi Prasad, Superintedent of Police, told The Hindu that the District Health Officer has procured 300 test kits as of now. “They have been placed at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. The police take the people suspected to have consumed drugs to the hospital, where their urine samples are analysed using the kits. Based on the laboratory report, we will book the cases. Today, we have booked cases against two people under the NDPS Act”, he said. “The kits will be helpful in intensifying police action on drug consumption. Right now the facility is at Shivamogga city only. Gradually, it will be made available in other places whenever necessary”, the SP said. The police have information about regular joints where people gather to consume drugs. “We will conduct raids and pick the people and subject them to tests if found necessary”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-use-kits-to-detect-drug-consumption/article36816276.ece
04 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Crony capitalism devastating economy’||Criticising the Union government’s aggressive disinvestment policy, M. Mallikarjun Kharge, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were going to sell valuable public sector units (PSUs) that were contributing to the country’s economy to a few corporate houses that were close to the BJP and its leaders. He said that the disinvestment process would have a devastating effect on the economy by rendering millions of people jobless. Congress’ contribution “They [the BJP] often question what Congress has done for the country. The fact that the Modi government is planning to earn revenues of Rs. 6 lakh crore in the next four years by public asset monetisation itself speaks volumes about what Congress has done for the country. There are 366 PSUs in the country which together are making a profit of around Rs. 1.5 lakh crore every year. They have not been established by the Modi government in the last seven years but by Congress governments over decades after independence. The Congress created these valuable assets that are contributing to the national economy and the BJP is simply selling them at throwaway prices. The BJP’s business is changing the names of existing programmes and institutions and not creating new ones,” Mr. Kharge said. He was addressing a press conference at Aiwan-E-Shahi guest house in Kalaburagi on Sunday. According to him, only 172 of the total 366 PSUs were incurring a loss of around Rs. 45,000 crore a year and there was no need to go for privatisation of PSUs on the pretext of loss. “If you subtract the loss of Rs. 45,000 crore from the total profit of Rs. 1.5 lakh crore, you will still have more than Rs. 1 lakh crore profits,” he said. As per the details he provided, the Union government had a plan to earn Rs. 1.6 lakh crore from roads, Rs. 1.52 lakh crore from rail, and Rs. 45,000 crore from the power sector. “26,700 km of roads would be given to private companies for toll collection. As many as 400 railway stations will be handed over to private parties and 150 private trains will run on government tracks. In essence, these private companies exploit the common people by overcharging so that they can pay the lease amount to the government and make a profit for themselves,” he said. Alleging nepotism in the process of public asset monetisation, the Congress veteran said that the Prime Minister and the Home Minister were out to sell the public sector assets to selected corporate houses which were close to them. Millions jobless “This is crony capitalism. They [Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah] are selling the public assets to a few capitalists of their choice. The latter’s financial help during the elections is thus repaid by the former. It will render millions of people jobless and devastate the economy. The BJP came to power by promising 2 crore jobs a year. Let alone creating new jobs, it is taking away the existing jobs, ” Mr. Kharge said adding that the privatisation of big PSUs like HAL, HMT, BHEL, Air India and BSNL would render even the highly qualified and skilled employees jobless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crony-capitalism-devastating-economy/article36816099.ece
04 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||UKP Stage III cost has shot up to Rs. 65,000 crore: Karjol||Minister for Water Resources Govind Karjol recently accused the previous Congress government of neglecting the Upper Krishna Project (UKP) and held it responsible for its rise in cost. He was speaking to presspersons after inspecting the Gandorinala Dam (Medium Irrigation Project) at Belakota village of Kalaburagi district. Mr. Karjol said that the estimated cost of UPK Stage III to utilise 130 tmcft of Krishna river Water Tribunal 2, which was Rs. 17,207 crore in 2012-13 has shot up to Rs. 65,000 crore now. The BJP government in the State during 2011-12 allocated Rs. 17,207 crore to take up resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) works to acquire 1,33,800 acres of land. Though the tribunal, headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar, allocated Karnataka 173 tmcft water seven years ago, the previous government (Congress and JD(S)-Congress coalition government) had not released funds for the project. Mr. Karjol said that the State government has announced to provide Rs. 2,500 crore this year to take up the resettlement and rehabilitation of around 20 villages in UKP Stage III (Phase-I). The long-pending UPK Stage-III would increase the height of the Almatti dam from 519 m to 524 m. It involves the acquisition of 1.3 lakh acres, including 75,000 acres that would be submerged. UKP-I and UKP-II were aimed at irrigating 6.22 lakh hectares, after completion of UKP-III an additional 5.94 lakh hectares of land covering seven districts will be irrigated. Replying to a query, Mr. Karjol said that the Yettinhole Project which provides safe drinking water to more than seven districts facing severe scarcity will be commissioned on a trial basis within the next two months. He said that the project was delayed due to hurdles in land acquisition procedures. Similarly, this project [Yettinhole] was started with an estimated cost of Rs. 8,000 crore and the project cost has now increased to Rs. 23,000 crore, envisages to pump about 24tmcft water. Gandori Nala Project Mr. Karjol directed the officials to take immediate steps to supply irrigation water to tail-end areas. He instructed officials to cater to the needs of farmers, who complained during the inspection on the spot. There were no major repair and maintenance works taken up of the canals recently, the farmers said. Mr. Karjol said action would be taken against officials and contractors responsible for the sub-standard works on the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ukp-stage-iii-cost-has-shot-up-to-rs-65000-crore-karjol/article36816093.ece
04 October 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Siddaramaiah trying to get cheap publicity’||Hitting back at former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his ‘Talibanis’ jibe, Minister for Water Resources Govind Karjol recently said that the Congress leader was making such statements in order to get cheap publicity. “Mr. Siddaramaiah compared RSS with Taliban, only to get publicity,” Mr. Karjol said. Mr. Karjol speaking to mediapersons in Kalaburagi reiterated that such statements are not expected from the senior leader. He also exuded his confidence in the party [BJP] winning both bypolls Sindgi and Hangal Assembly Constituencies, which is scheduled for October 30. Replying to a question, he said that former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would resume his State-wide tour again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-trying-to-get-cheap-publicity/article36816094.ece
04 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||We are firm in our stand on Mekedatu, says CM||Taking exception to Tamil Nadu’s objections to the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai reiterated that the State government was firm on its decision to go ahead with the project. Speaking to media persons after inaugurating a new building of S.K. Modi International School in Ballari on Sunday, the Chief Minister said that the implementation of the project was not in the hands of Tamil Nadu, but with Karnataka. “Everybody knows Tamil Nadu’s stand on the Mekedatu project. They [Tamil Nadu politicians] are politicising the issue for electoral gains. Implementing the project is not in their hands; it is in our hands and we will do it. We are firm on our stand and Tamil Nadu doesn’t have any powers to decide on the project. The project will be taken up through a legal battle,” Mr. Bommai said. On steel firms To a question on steel companies that have obtained approvals for establishing their plants in Ballari district, the Chief Minister said that as many as 10 big companies were given permissions to establish their plants and they have not commenced their operations yet. “We will examine the issue and find out the reasons for the companies not establishing their operations before taking a final decision,” Mr. Bommai said. The Chief Minister also said that a balancing reservoir would be built at Navali in Koppal district to balance the deficit of water storage caused by the large quantity of silt that has accumulated in the Tungabhadra reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-firm-in-our-stand-on-mekedatu-says-cm/article36815888.ece
04 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress to campaign against price rise||Pointing to the distress caused to common people by the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities, Raksha Ramaiah, president of Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC), said that his organisation would shortly launch a campaign against the Union government on the price rise. Speaking to the media at Hosapete in Vijayanagara district after the completion of a three-day workshop for Youth Congress workers on Wednesday, he said that the Centre led by BJP was doing everything to add to the sufferings of the people. “The prices of essential commodities are spiralling and the Union government is doing nothing to control them. KPYCC members will shortly launch a campaign in a big way. Youth Congress has played a pivotal role whenever the party is in Opposition as its members have fought valiantly at the grassroots to highlight the ruling party’s misdeeds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-to-campaign-against-price-rise/article36816100.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rains and wind damage arecanut plantations, houses in Bantwal hobli||Heavy rains, accompanied by gusty winds, which lashed Kavala Mudur, Badaga Kajekar, Tenka Kajekar, and Uli villages in Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada, damaged vast tracts of arecanut plantations and houses on Saturday evening. Reports reaching here said that gusty winds brought down a number of high-yielding arecanut palms of over 100 farmers spread over 60 acres. According to T.C. Kumar, Revenue Inspector (in-charge), Bantwal hobli, 86 houses were damaged in the rains which hit the villages at about 6.30 p.m. Of them, nine houses were severely damaged and 77 partially damaged. He said in a report that 73 houses were damaged in Badaga Kajekar and Tenka Kajekar villages alone. In addition, eight houses were damaged in Uli village and five in Kavala Mudur village. Reports said that heavy winds also brought down more than 25 electricity poles. Hence there was no power supply to the villages on Saturday night and Sunday. The MESCOM was trying to restore the power supply till late evening on Sunday. Horticulture Department officials were conducting a survey to assess the damage to arecanut plantations. I. Srinivas, an agriculturist from Agarthyar, near Karinjeshwara, told The Hindu that many arecanut growers have suffered a heavy loss as it was harvesting time. Adult arecanut palms were full with yield (arecanut bunches) ready for harvesting from next month. Gusty winds brought down many such palms. “An arecanut palm takes a minimum of six to seven years for yielding after planting. Accounting the maintenance cost the loss to the farmers is huge,” he said adding that the damages to arecanut growers could be over Rs. 2 crore. “It is a double whammy for many arecanut growers whose houses also got damaged both in rains and heavy winds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rains-and-wind-damage-arecanut-plantations-houses-in-bantwal-hobli/article36816258.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru roads come alive with various events||A cycle and a vintage car rally, and a street art event held as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav brought a sense of gaiety on the main roads of the city on Sunday. A host of events were held by Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL), which has been into widening roads and other development and city beautification projects. It began with the bicycle rally in which over 100 people from the We are Cycling and Mangalore Cycling Club took part. The youngest of the cyclists were Ayan from Kudroli and Samyukta from Panjimogeru. A dedicated lane was earmarked for the cyclists, who started their ride at 8.45 a.m. from the A.B. Shetty Circle. They covered a nearly 10-km long route and reached the Exhibition Centre grounds at Lalbagh by 11 a.m. A vehicle of a bicycle firm followed the cyclists and picked up those who had problems with their cycles or those who suffered exhaustion. Following the cyclists were riders of over 50 vintage two-wheelers and cars. Among the cars included the 1929 Chevrolet of Ratnakar. Mayor Premananda Shetty drove this car with Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and MSCL Managing Director Prashant Kumar Mishra for a short distance. Among the other vehicles in the rally were the 1948 Morris Oxford and the 1967 model of Mercedes Benz, which is owned by K.R. Ballal. Among the two-wheelers included Lambretta scooter and Jawa, Yezdi, and Enfield motorcycles. Several artists worked on their art on the road stretch between Exhibition Centre Ground and Lady Hill Circle. Many students from the Mahalasa College of Visual Art were involved in various art activities. Rajesh, Sujith and a few other students from the second and third year B.V.A course were involved in creating snakes and ladders and a few natives games for children on a part of the road adjoining Pabbas. Other students, namely Ganesh Nayak and Prajwal K., were involved painting different forms of Worli art on a white sheet. A few students had different art creations like Lokesh, who painted a bird sporting a mask and his college mate coming out with a painting of Ugra Narasimha. A few artists had stalls to sell their paintings. Many children aged below 15 participated in the painting competition held at the Mangala Stadium. Children actively took part in the walkathon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-roads-come-alive-with-various-events/article36816261.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘State govt. has released Rs. 3 crore to build Beary Samskritika Bhavan’||Chairman of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy Rahim Uchil said here on Sunday that the State government has released Rs. 3 crore for building a Beary Samskritika Bhavan. Speaking at the Beary Day celebration organised by the academy at the University College, he said that the government has sanctioned Rs. 6 crore to construct the bhavan on the site that was allotted to it for free. He said that all governments have contributed for the promotion of Beary. Mr. Uchil said that Mangalore University will introduce certificate courses on Beary dances like duff, kolkali, and oppane as per the new National Education Policy from the next academic year. Efforts are on to introduce Beary as the third optional language in schools and colleges. Beary Day is observed every year to commemorate the formation of the academy. In all, 10 Beary achievers were felicitated on the occasion. Prizes were distributed to the winners in competitions organised by the academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-has-released-rs-3-crore-to-build-beary-samskritika-bhavan/article36816251.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: One fatality, 76 new cases in DK||Dakshina Kannada reported one death and 76 new cases on Sunday. With 103 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 892. The test positivity rate stood at 0.79%. A fine of Rs. 1,06,90,470 has so far been collected in 87,977 cases of norm violations. Udupi reported 33 new cases, of which 17 are from Udupi taluk, 12 from Kundapur, and four from Karkala taluks. While 31 people are in home isolation, two are in healthcare facilities. With 61 patients discharged, there were 103 active cases. With 442 people vaccinated on Sunday, the total number covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 21,83,529. Of these, 15,00,942 have received their first dose and 6,82,587 their second. In Udupi, 179 people were vaccinated taking the total to 13,39,529. Of these, 9,07,084 have received their first dose and 4,32,445 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-one-fatality-76-new-cases-in-dk/article36816263.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kollur temple to observe Navaratri in simple manner||The Navaratri festival will be celebrated in Mookambika Temple at Kollur, Udupi district, in a simple manner from October 7 to October 15, according to S.P.B. Mahesh, executive officer of the temple. There will be no entry for devotees to the temple on October 14 when the Navami Car Festival will be held, he said in a release. There will be no jatra and processions during the festival time. All religious rituals and pujas will be conducted as per the tradition inside the temple. The temple staff and priests will participate in those rituals. The temple will follow COVID-19 protocol during the celebrations, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kollur-temple-to-observe-navaratri-in-simple-manner/article36816253.ece
04 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for drug use, harassing minor||The police here on Sunday arrested two men, who were found with a woman and a minor girl, on the outskirts of the city on the charges of consuming drugs and harassing the 16-year-old girl. Earlier, Bajrang Dal activists who found them at Chilimbi Gudde, near Gurupura, questioned the four and later informed the Bajpe police. The police said that the four had come to the hilly area in a car without a registration number. Based on a complaint by the girl’s parents that the two men harassed their daughter, the police arrested Shakir and Dheeraj, both aged 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-drug-use-harassing-minor/article36816262.ece
04 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Delay irks cyclists||The delay in start of the bicycle rally irked parents and their children, who had come in good number on Sunday. The rally was to start at 8 a.m. and the cyclists, including several children, had come to A.B. Shetty Circle by 7.30 a.m. With Mayor Premanand Shetty and Mangaluru City South MLA D.Vedavyas Kamath not coming to the venue by 8.30 a.m., parents started becoming restless and started questioning the organizers as they were finding it hard to stand in the hot sun. The officials came to the venue by 8.45 a.m. and the event was flagged off immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-irks-cyclists/article36816264.ece
04 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to some areas in the city on October 5 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Bunts Hostel, Ambedkar Circle, Light House Hill, Mallikatta, Kadri, Tarethota, Nanthoor, Kadri Park, Karangalpady, Court Road, Balmatta, Hampankatta, Shivabagh from Cross I to V, Lower Bendoor, Kadri Kambala, Vas Lane, SCS Hospital, Kottara Chowki, Kodical Vivekananda Nagar, J.B. Lobo Road, and Kodical Katte.    Power supply to some areas in Udupi will be stopped on October 5 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Kidiyoor, Kadekar, Sampige Nagar, Padu Kare, Ananthakrishna Nagara, Kutpady, Manipal Syndicate Circle, MGC School, Vidyaratnanagara, offices of Deputy Commissioner and Regional Transport Officer, Perampalli, Sagrinole, KMC Hospital, MIT, Venugopal Temple, Udyavara, Katpady, Bailoor, Kukkikatte, Korangrapady.     The Department of Social Welfare has invited online applications from Scheduled Tribes students for admission to postmatric hostels. Later, relevant documents with a copy of the application filed and attested by respective principals should be submitted to the offices of Assistant Directors of the department in taluks. Apply by October 26. Call 0824-2423619.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36816255.ece
04 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Weekend rush in Mysuru ahead of Dasara fete||The weekend before Dasara witnessed a sharp spurt of tourists in Mysuru with hotels reporting an occupancy ranging from 75 to 80 per cent on Saturday. Even as the authorities were busy making last-minute preparations for Dasara, albeit a low-key one, with the officials of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) conducting a trial run of the illumination of an estimated 100 km of the roads in the city, tourists made a beeline to Mysuru. With Saturday also a public holiday on account of Gandhi Jayanti followed by a Sunday, a large number of tourists had arrived in the city. “Our occupation was almost 75 to 80 per cent on Saturday. It, however, came down on Sunday”, said President of Hotel Owners’ Association of Mysuru K. Narayana Gowda. Apart from hotel rooms, even restaurants reported a good footfall during the weekend while the roads witnessed a spurt in movement of vehicular traffic. The number of visitors to the palace witnessed a substantial rise during the weekend. Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace Board T.S. Subramanya told The Hindu that the number of visitors to the Amba Vilas Palace on Saturday and Sunday was 9,194 and 8,103 respectively. In contrast, the visitors during the previous weekend – Saturday and Sunday – was 5,109 and 7,039 respectively. A large number of visitors thronged the palace on Sunday evening to witness the illumination of the monument. Motorists passing through the main thoroughfares also enjoyed the lights that the CESC officials The number of tourists to the zoo also rose on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-rush-in-mysuru-ahead-of-dasara-fete/article36816270.ece
04 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MLA speaks up for khadi centre||The Khadi and Gramudyog Centre at Badanavalu near came under focus again on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary last Saturday with the local MLA representing Nanjangud Assembly segment B. Harshavardhan urging the government to develop the historic centre on the lines of Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat. Mr. Harshavardhan said he has already submitted a “project report” to the State government in the regard. He said the “Mahatma Gandhi-inspired” Khadi Centre should turn into a yoga and meditation centre. “A lodging facility should also be created for visitors coming from far-off places”, he said while making out a case for developing the centre as a “recreational” place also. “The proposed building should be designed on the lines of Sabarmati Ashram”, said Mr Harshavardhan, who visited Badanavalu recently. The MLA expressed disappointment with the government for not maintaining the place properly. “I wonder why the Tourism Department has neglected this place so far”, he said while requesting the Tourism Minister Anand Singh to visit the centre. However, work was underway to construct a compound wall around the centre, which is presently run by Khadi Gramudyog Sahakara Sangha. The spinning and weaving centre offers employment to around 70 men and women, mostly from the villages in the vicinity. The centre, Mr. Harshavardan said, is crying for attention from the authorities. “It is awaiting refurbishing to make it more productive and showcase it as part of history.” Gandhiji’s visits The Khadi Centre, which began operation in the 1920s, went into history books following visits by Mahatma Gandhi, first in 1927 and again in 1932, in the midst of the Swadeshi movement and demands for the country’s independence from British rule. Situated at a distance of about 33 km from Mysuru on the highway to Chamarajanagar highway, Badanavalu was visited by Mahatma Gandhi in 1927 after his close follower Tagadur Ramachandra Rao brought him here to popularise khadi in the region. By the time,Mahatma Gandhi came over for the second time, the centre was producing khadi in large quantities, said Mr. Harshavardhan in a statement. The placedrew public attention in the recent past when theatre personality Prasanna camped in the village along with a group of volunteers to promote sustainable living. In April 2015, Prasanna held a National Convention for Sustainable Living and used Badanavalu as a symbol to promote sustainable living. However, Mr. Prasanna was for redesigning Badanavalu without harming the original design of the existing structure and sought to promote the village as a “pilgrimage place” for people believing in sustainable living.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-speaks-up-for-khadi-centre/article36816272.ece
04 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Land-grab: DC seeks four months’ time to complete probe||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham has sought four months’ time to complete the probe into alleged encroachment of certain parcels of land in and around Mysuru relating to a complaint against former Minister S.R. Mahesh. A letter from the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, dated September 29, 2021, and addressed to the Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, cited not only the various actions needed to carry out the survey including collection of documents, their examination and scrutiny, joint survey and preparation of a comprehensive report, but also the preoccupation of the officials with Dasara festivities and attention required for management of the COVID-19 situation in the district. Pointing out that a minimum of four months’ time is required to complete the probe and submit a report in the regard, the Deputy Commissioner has sought additional time from the government. It may be mentioned here that former Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri, soon after her transfer from Mysuru, had levelled land grabbing charges against Mr. Mahesh and accused him of constructing a marriage choultry on a Rajakaluve on the outskirts of Mysuru. However, a survey conducted by a team of officials constituted by Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash had given a clean chit to Mr. Mahesh. Re-survey Subsequently, Commissioner of Survey, Settlement and Land Records, Bengaluru, Munish Mudgil, had ordered a re-survey of the parcels of certain parcels of land based on a complaint filed by N. Gangaraju, a resident of Kuvempunagar in Mysuru. The re-survey of land covered survey numbers in Kergalli, Yadahalli, Dattagalli and Lingambudhi villages in and around Mysuru. But, Mr. Mudgil’s direction to re-survey the land was questioned not only by Mr. Mahesh, who accused the IAS officer of joining hands with Ms. Sindhuri, but also by Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district. Subsequently, the State government had entrusted the probe to the Deputy Commissioners of Mysuru and Mandya. Mr. Bagadi Gautham had formed a team of officials comprising Additional Deputy Commissioner, Commissioner of MUDA, Assistant Commissioner and Tahsildar, Mysuru, Deputy Directors of Land Records, besides Urban Planning Officer, to conduct the probe into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-grab-dc-seeks-four-months-time-to-complete-probe/article36816275.ece
04 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KSE says Siddaramaiah, DKS not on same page over caste census||BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappa on Sunday claimed that Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar were not on the same page on the contentious issue of caste census in the State. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru after participating in a cycle jatha in Mysuru organised by the party’s Backward Classes Morcha to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said the two Congress leaders were squabbling with each other and the party will split into two before the next elections to the State Assembly. Mr. Siddaramaiah had, for long, been batting for submission of the Caste Census report to the State government by the Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission. Though the census was carried out during his regime as Chief Minister, the report was not submitted as Mr. Siddaramaiah has been claiming that it was not ready till he demitted office in 2018. He has also been accusing JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy of refusing to accept the report on the caste census when he subsequently took over as Chief Minister of the coalition government. Mr. Eshwarappa sought to know the reason behind the Congress remaining silent on the issue in the recent Legislature session. He claimed that Mr. Shivakumar had reportedly issued a diktat to the party leaders that the issues relating to caste census should not be raised by anybody till a committee constituted under the chairmanship of former Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily studies the matter and submits a report to the party leadership. The BJP leader questioned Mr. Siddaramaiah’s commitment to backward classes by asking why as the chief of the coordination committee of Congress-JD (S) coalition government he did not withdraw support to the H.D. Kumaraswamy government when the latter refused to accept the caste census report. Mr. Eshwarappa said the Congress party was only using the backward classes and Dalits as ‘political’ pawns for the sake of power. The backward classes and Dalits had extended support to the BJP, which saw the party securing 25 out of the 28 Lok Sabha seats in the State, he said. Though the backward classes and Dalits had rejected the Congress, Mr. Siddaramaiah was making efforts to win them over by holding their rallies in different parts of the State while ‘dreaming’ of becoming a Chief Minister again. Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar is also hoping to become the Chief Minister and was making efforts to lure BJP MLAs into the Congress fold. “Let there be no doubt that the Congress party will split into two before next Assembly elections. I don’t think one needs to even wait for one-and-a-half years for that to happen”, he said while referring to the rivalry within the Congress party over the leadership issue. Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Kota Srinivas Poojary was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-says-siddaramaiah-dks-not-on-same-page-over-caste-census/article36816274.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||Centre hopeful of positive outcome on vaccine for children||The Centre is hopeful of a positive outcome from the final round of discussions currently under way with Zydus Cadila for its COVID-19 vaccine for children, Karnataka Health Minister K. Sudhakar said on Sunday after a meeting with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the national capital. Mr. Sudhakar, who discussed children’s vaccination and other State initiatives over a breakfast meeting with the Union Minister, said the second clinical trial of a nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech has been completed and the third one is expected to be done by November-December. Bharat Biotech Chairman and MD Krishna Ella was also present at the meeting. Clinical trials Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Mr. Sudhakar said that he also discussed with the Bharat Biotech chief the status of the nasal vaccine. “The second clinical trial of this vaccine has been completed and the third will be over by the end of November-December,” the Minister said, adding that Mr. Ella said the company has a capacity to manufacture 20 crore doses of the vaccine a month. At the meeting, the Karnataka Minister also sought the Centre’s support to upgrade the existing PHCs in the southern State under the NHM. Third wave On the preparations to handle a probable third wave of COVID-19, the Minister said, “We need to watch be observant during November-December. Since the number of people vaccinated against the disease will increase by then, there will not be a serious impact if a third wave hits unless there is a new mutant variant which is quite different from the existing four variants.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-hopeful-of-positive-outcome-on-vaccine-for-children/article36815869.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘PAC charges on COVID-19 management politically motivated’||The Opposition Congress has been alleging corruption in procurement of COVID-19 material by the State government during the pandemic. Recently, the State Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) identified several lapses in procurement of COVID-19 material resulting in additional expenditure worth many crores. However, in an interview with The Hindu, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that the PAC’s charges are ‘politically motivated’ and PAC has only “dug a hill and found a rat.”   Excerpts from the interview:  The State Legislature’s PAC identified lapses in tendering process and procurement of COVID-19 material during the second wave. It said that it resulted in additional expenditure worth many crores. This is totally false. The PAC’s findings are politically motivated. Targeting and criticising the government on COVID-19 management has become a habit with the opposition Congress. There is no better system of procurement other than what we have followed. Besides, the procurement is done through the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society and is monitored by senior officials at the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) level. I am not part of it and no files come to me. The PAC’s queries have been replied to by our officials. Let the committee take it up legally instead of making noise in the media. The third wave was predicted to hit Karnataka in September-October. However, we have not seen a surge even post Ganesha festival. Some experts are now talking about endemicity. Is Karnataka close to that? It is hard to predict the behaviour of a pandemic. There are various models to predict the onset of waves but their success rates are low. However, we do know that pandemics are prone to multiple waves. Many Western countries have already witnessed third and fourth waves. India may witness a third wave or may not. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan had recently said that India may be entering endemicity. If there is no new variant, that may be the case. Karnataka was caught unawares when the second wave hit. How prepared are we now, in case of a third wave, now that most public places are open? No one can be fully prepared for a pandemic. Our government had done considerable capacity augmentation, but the speed and scale of the second wave surprised all of us. Third wave may or may not happen but it is our responsibility to be prepared. We have significantly augmented our capacity. Karnataka had only 725 ICU beds before COVID-19. This has been augmented to 3,877 in government medical colleges and government hospitals. Before COVID-19, the State had 4,847 oxygenated beds. This is 28,447 as of August 2021. The number of regular beds have been increased to 50,629 from 41,378. We have taken steps to plug oxygen supply gap too. Government facilities had a capacity of 320 MT before COVID-19. We have augmented it to 1,207 MT as of last month. We have augmented the number of oxygen cylinders from 2,180 to 13,588. Oxygen concentrators have gone up from 585 to 6,511. You have been saying that the State is determined to vaccinate the entire 4.97 crore adult population by December end. With the gap between two doses of Covishield still 84 days, is it possible to meet this deadline? We have nearly 25% who are yet to get first dose. Karnataka has achieved first dose coverage of 80% as of September 29. It can increase to 85% over the next 8-10 days. Many people will also take Covaxin which has an interval of 4-6 weeks. With this, I am confident that we will be able to vaccinate near-100% by December. There are several allegations about under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in the State. Is our reporting transparent? Historically, the registration of deaths in our country has been poor. In 2011, only 66% deaths were registered with the Civil Registry System (CRS). The number of deaths registered with CRS has been going up significantly before and during COVID-19. We should not look at 2020 in isolation. I assert that our government has recorded all deaths during COVID-19.  Many Western countries have already witnessed third and fourth waves. India may witness a third wave or may not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-charges-on-covid-19-management-politically-motivated/article36815867.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Roar of freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roar-of-freedom/article36815895.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Enjoying the drizzle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enjoying-the-drizzle/article36815863.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Racquet action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/racquet-action/article36816267.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Thanks to private news channels that thrive on them, the people of Karnataka have for days on end watched video tapes with Ministers and MLAs in “compromising positions” with women. We are told there are many more “sex CDs” involving men in politics that are yet to tumble out of the cupboard. We have heard MLAs accuse their party colleagues of having a stash of CDs which they use to blackmail their higher-ups to get plum ministerial berths. What’s more, Ministers have gone to court to get injunction orders against the airing of circulation of the contents of any CD featuring them. But then, who says any of this will ever prevent a male politician from sitting on moral judgment about a woman politician and make abhorrently sexist remarks? A recent instance of it was BJP leader and former legislator Sanjay Patil ascribing the political ascent of Congress leader and Belagavi Rural MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar(in picture)to what he called “night culture”. Whatever may be the means by which a male politician rises to power, one can be sure that personal attacks of this kind will be reserved for women only.   A visit to his alma mater, B.V. Bhoomaraddi College of Engineering and Technology in Hubballi, took Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai(in picture)down memory lane recently. In fact, there was no stopping him as he went on narrating one incident after another from his college days. One interesting anecdote was that of his meeting with the then Vice-Chancellor Prof. D.M. Nanjundappa (famous for his report on regional imbalance) seeking exam postponement. “The earlier Vice-Chancellor knew my father S.R. Bommai (the then Chief Minister) well, and when I first called him on behalf of the students seeking postponement of exams, he obliged. Then came the upright Prof. Nanjundappa. When I called him introducing myself as the son of S.R. Bommai and sought exam postponement, without mincing words he asked me to put the phone down. When I again went to meet him personally on the same issue, he said he would call my father. I had to plead with him not to do so. He asked us go prepare for the exam as there would be no postponement,” Mr. Bommai recalled, adding that had it not been for Prof. Nanjundappa, his engineering education would not have returned to the right track.   Scoring just over 35 marks in engineering was definitely not a great achievement, but it opened up new avenues his life, according to Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani(in picture). During a visit to Hubballi, he recalled that his poor academic performance had pushed him to become an entrepreneur. “I am a 35-marks man. And that is the reason I am a successful industrialist and also Industries Minister,” he announced to a gathering, which responded with a loud cheer. “As there was no option with 35 marks, I pleaded with my father to permit me to start a sugar mill with a loan of Rs. 10 lakh. Today, in my factory, 75,000 tonnes of sugarcane is crushed daily and I am a Minister. Had I scored more, I would have probably become an AEE at best,” he said.  Bageshree S.   Girish Pattanashetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article36815893.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||B.C. Road  Dakshina Kannada district administration: Antyodaya programme to provide information on various schemes of Departments of Social Welfare, Backward Classes Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare, Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivasa Poojary and Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada S. Angara to speak, Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. presides, Bantara Bhavan, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article36816256.ece
04 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||The tale of the returning migrants||On May 8, 2020, amidst an unprecedented crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, 16 migrant labourers returning to their homes in Madhya Pradesh on foot were mowed down by a freight train between Jalna and Aurangabad in Maharashtra. Tragedy An unspeakable tragedy, it remains one of the saddest episodes of a humanitarian crisis caused by a lockdown to stave off the pandemic. ‘Why We Always Return Home’, a collection of artworks by Vipin Dhanurdharan at ‘Lokame Tharavadu’ contemporary art exhibition, commemorates the lives lost on the railway track and sheds light on the migrant crisis during the first wave of the pandemic. Mr. Dhanurdharan, a self-made artist without academic backing, has prepared a railway track with 12 sleepers to commemorate the tragedy. Twelve yoga breathing techniques are engraved on the sleepers of the track, a reminder of two different Indias. He has also made an 85-minute video art. “We have been living with the pandemic for two years. In the beginning, the lockdown was a kind of anxious period. We searched on mobile and the Internet for answers. Like others, I have also seen migrant workers being forced to return. The death of 16 people on a railway track caused a great deal of unrest. “Because, at the same time, we are safe to paint and do whatever we like. When I thought about it and read more, the number of 16 was very touching. That’s how I decided to document the incident,” he says, adding “a lot has happened in parallel. So my intention was to tell you about the time”. Mr. Dhanurdharan, a native of Kollam, made the documentary after travelling for a month with two friends. After visiting the scene of the accident, they went to the villages of the deceased. “They went to distant places in search of a better life. That journey ended on the railway track,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-tale-of-the-returning-migrants/article36816221.ece
04 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha begins cleanliness survey||The Alappuzha municipality has launched a digital cleanliness survey. It is part of a year-long programme titled ‘Nirmala Bhavanam-Nirmala Nagaram 2.0-Azhakode Alappuzha’, which aims to attain total sanitation. The four-day survey, which began on October 2, will cover 50,000 households in 52 wards. Alappuzha municipal chairperson Soumya Raj said the cleanliness programme would focus on solid and liquid waste management, cleaning up canals, and strengthening the activities of Haritha Karma Sena. A master plan had been prepared for the implementation of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-begins-cleanliness-survey/article36816228.ece
04 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Man stabs three Bevco staff||The Thodupuzha police have arrested one person for stabbing three employees of the Bevco outlet following a dispute on Sunday. The arrested was identified as Muttom resident Jose. A salesman and two security men were injured and were admitted to a private hospital. Their condition was not serious, said hospital sources. The police said the man tried to escape after attacking them and was overpowered. Initial reports said that Jose was on the queue for purchasing liquor and quarrelled with the man standing in front of him for breaking the queue. When the salesman intervened, he stabbed him. Two security men who tried to hold him were also stabbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabs-three-bevco-staff/article36816216.ece
04 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Boy killed in attack with hammer||A man killed a seven-year-old boy and attacked the victim’s mother and grandmother using a hammer at Amakkandam early on Sunday. The victim was identified as Riyas Mansil Althaf. The accused, Muhammedshan alias Sunil Gopi, brother-in-law of the victim’s mother Safia, 38, was absconding. There was a dispute between the families. Muhammedshan reached the victim’s house around 3.30 a.m. He attacked Safia and her with a hammer. He then reached the house of her mother Sainaba,70, and took away Safia’s 15-year-old daughter who escaped and informed people. The body of the boy was shifted to Adimali taluk hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-killed-in-attack-with-hammer/article36816139.ece
04 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Unknown fungus threatening coffee plantations||The spread of an unknown fungus is threatening coffee plantations in Wayanad district, a major Robusta coffee growing region in the State. The fungus attack has been reported in Kurukkanmoola and Cherukattur areas of Mananthavady taluk. It was first reported in a coffee plantation at Kurukkanmoola in June. Black spots The symptoms of the attack such as black spots on the margin of young leaves, yellowing and wilting were seen on a few plants in June. Later, it spread to other plants, said sources. In the final stage, the plants were partially destroyed after defoliation and berry drops, they added. Officials of the Coffee Board and scientists of the Regional Coffee Research Station at Chundale in the district visited the sites and collected the specimen of affected trees. As incessant rain and over-shade in coffee plantations were the major reasons for the spread of the fungus, planters were advised to spray Folicure, a fungicide (1 ml per litre of water), said Coffee Board sources. The exact reason could be ascertained only after tests, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unknown-fungus-threatening-coffee-plantations/article36816133.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand to disband GCDA and GIDA gains steam||The Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), which is heavily staffed, and the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA), both of which are under fire for shoddy upkeep of roads, bridges, and other infra that come under them, have become next to defunct, according to the impression that is gaining ground. Over the years, it has led to the demand that the government disband them and redeploy personnel to different local bodies which are facing paucity of skilled hands. Many non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have been demanding that the two agencies at least implement announcements made in their annual budgets and decisions taken at meetings. Both the GCDA, which was formed in 1976, and the GIDA, which was constituted in 1994, have failed to perform their mandated tasks. The list of non-starter projects of the GCDA include Goshree-Mamangalam Road, Ring Road around the city, and Chilavannur Bund Road, all of which were mooted over two decades ago. On its part, the GIDA has failed to do anything substantial for the development of Goshree isles during the last over 15 years after the trio of Goshree bridges were commissioned, said Felix J. Pullooden, general secretary of India Human Rights Watch, a city-based NGO. “Such so-called development authorities are a drain on the public exchequer. The debt-ridden State cannot afford to set apart funds to make them stay afloat, at a time when there is fiscal crisis, and every penny counts,” he said. A high-ranking official who was associated with their functioning said the two authorities had failed to live up to expectations, although they were vested with a lot of powers under the 73rd and 74th amendments to the Constitution. For instance, the GCDA was constituted to coordinate development activities in the Greater Kochi area. A slew of studies that were done, including a transportation plan readied by Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) as early as 2000, remain unimplemented, he added. Interestingly, a committee set up by the State government in 2016 to study the functioning of such agencies had ordered an assessment of their staff requirements and their redeployment to local bodies. Such agencies in Kozhikode, Thrissur, and many other districts had been wound up and their staff redeployed. “Too much of decentralisation of powers could be a reason for such agencies being ineffective. For example, Kochi has been unable to ready a master plan, despite efforts made in the last 25 years. The ‘structure plan’ for Kochi central city that was notified in 1991 too is a non-starter. With the Kochi metro in operation, all these plans must be revised and implemented for Kochi to live up to its name as an upcoming metropolis,” official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-disband-gcda-and-gida-gains-steam/article36816163.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NH widening: Rs. 40.93 lakh fixed as maximum compensation||A sum of Rs. 40.93 lakh per cent of land has been fixed as the maximum compensation for land that will be acquired on the Edappally-Moothakunnam stretch of NH 66, which is awaiting widening into a six-lane corridor. The compensation has been fixed for category-A land in Edappally North village. It will be in addition to exemptions and other benefits that owners of houses and commercial buildings that will be taken over will be entitled to, it was decided on Sunday at a meeting of the Land Acquisition Samiti chaired by Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve here. SC/ST communities will be given an additional Rs. 50,000 as compensation. Everyone will be eligible for Rs. 50,000 as shifting expense. Kiosks and cow sheds that ought to be demolished will be given Rs. 25,000 as compensation. Small traders and handicraft sellers are eligible for Rs. 75,000. Those whose houses are taken over will be paid Rs. 2.86 lakh, while residents of ‘puramboke’ land will be given Rs. 15,000. All this is in addition to relaxations that will be available while building houses or small retail shops, said a press release. People will be given up to two months to vacate buildings, once they avail compensation. They will be free to take away anything from their buildings. Pipelines, drains The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will relocate water pipelines and rebuild drains at its own expense. Land will be acquired in eight villages, spread over a municipality and six panchayats, on the Edappally-Moothakunnam stretch. People’s representatives apprised the samiti of various demands raised by evictees. The NHAI has been directed to look into the demands. The District Collector will convene a meeting to follow up on it. Hibi Eden, MP, MLAs, and J. Balachandran, Kochi Project Director of NHAI, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nh-widening-rs-4093-lakh-fixed-as-maximum-compensation/article36816173.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL expects growth in traffic in Oct.||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) is expecting fairly high growth in international traffic in October as more foreign carriers have started operating frequent services from Kochi, according to CIAL Managing Director S. Suhas. He said the airport had witnessed significant growth in traffic during September and more international flights were scheduled for October, the latest being Sri Lankan Airlines. The airport handled 85,395 international passengers in July; 1,57,289 in August; and 1,94,900 in September. The cumulative passenger volume, comprising international and domestic, for the month of September stood at 3,70,044, according to a communication from CIAL. CIAL has initiated an aggressive campaign to reach out to foreign carriers in the last three months. The airport now handles an average of 106 aircraft movements a day comprising both international and domestic operations whereas the daily average passenger footfall stands at around 14,500. The airport facilitates flights to all West Asia destinations, London, Male, and Colombo, it said. The international connectivity was expected to increase by 70% of the pre-pandemic period next month while the domestic aircraft movement would be near normal in the winter schedule which would commence next month, said Mr. Suhas. Sri Lankan Airlines has resumed its daily service to Colombo from Sunday. Sri Lankan flight UL 165 arrives in Kochi at 9.45 a.m. and departs as UL 166 to Colombo at 10.45 a.m. on all days except Sunday. On Sunday, the arrival and departure timings are scheduled at 8.45 a.m. and 9.45 a.m. respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-expects-growth-in-traffic/article36816177.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Schedule for development projects soon||A schedule for the implementation of development projects for Kochi will be drawn up and its progress reviewed periodically, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. Speaking at a programme organised by the Kochi Corporation to speed up the implementation of various development projects in the city, Mr. Rajeeve said all services of the civic body would be available online in three months. Steps for making city gas available across the corporation area are being taken, he informed. Metro second phase The second phase of the Kochi metro project from Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to Kakkanad will be taken up once permission from the Centre is obtained. Unlike before, the civic administration is cooperating with Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) for the implementation of the Smart City project. Steps for the development of Vyttila Junction and the road network of Kochi will also be undertaken, he said. A detailed project report (DPR) for the development of the KSRTC bus station will be prepared. Meetings to address issues facing each Assembly constituency in the district will be convened. Steps for the speedy implementation of canal renovation programmes and the development of the Thammanam-Pulleppady road will be taken, he said. In his address, Mayor M. Anilkumar sought the support of the State government to address waterlogging issues in the city. Hibi Eden, MP, wanted the second phase development of the Kochi metro and Water Metro projects to be implemented without delay. The 110-acre holding in the possession of the Railways at Ponnurunni shall be utilised for development activities, he suggested. T.J. Vinod, MLA, demanded a mechanism for acquiring land for development projects in the city. Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya and K. Babu, MLA, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schedule-for-development-projects-soon/article36816176.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Film on cyberworld threats bags global recognition||At a time when youth and children are increasingly vulnerable to hidden traps in the cyberworld, Spyware , a short film directed by a former B.A. (Veena) student of RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, Thripunithura, has bagged the best sci-fi (fantasy international) title at the 2021 edition of Alternative Film Festival, held in Toronto, Canada.  Spyware is the first short film to receive this award from India. The film, which also speaks of the manifold challenges in keeping cyberworld safe, has made its entry to the final selection round of over 15 other short film festivals, the results of which are awaited, says Blesson Thomas, a music programmer from Kannur, who directed the film. “My debut with Spyware was a dream come true since I always wanted to get my hands into directing short films. Funds came in the form of numerous music albums that I did during the recent past,” he says. Mr. Thomas says cyberspace has invaded daily lives and enslaved people to the extent that one’s privacy stands exposed before the virtual world. “Almost everyone is being watched, including in private spaces. Ironically, we let the dangers into our life without giving thought to what we are signing up for. Once you get into this precarious circle, you are entrapped, without ever realising it,” he says. The film, with the central character played by Godson Thomas, has been written by Harry Prasad along with other team members Diyol Sabu (cinematographer), Amaljith Karunan (editor), and Jobin P.K. (associate director), while visual effects were done by Reelmoss Studio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-film-on-cyberworld-bags-global-recognition/article36816166.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NSS opposes forward communities’ survey||The proposed socio-economic survey among forward communities is heading for a crisis with the Nair Service Society (NSS) denouncing it as a farce exercise and deciding against cooperating with it. The organisation will boycott the October 7 meeting convened by the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities in this regard. The commission had decided to hold a sample survey among the five most economically backward families in each of the 19,000 wards of the local bodies in the State, thus covering at least one lakh persons. ‘Comprehensive survey’ G. Sukumaran Nair, NSS general secretary, feared that the sample survey would not reflect the social realities. A comprehensive survey covering all the forward caste families was needed. The data generated by the survey was of significance. Hence the survey should be done in a scientific manner, he said. “One need not rush with the sample survey as much time has already been lost. Let it be done in a proper and elaborate manner after the pandemic,” he said. Church to cooperate At the same time, the Jacobite Syrian Church and the Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) have decided to cooperate with the survey. The Church, which is currently conducting an internal survey among its community members, would share the data with the government, said Peter K. Elias, secretary of the Jacobite Syrian Church. KBS welcomes it Welcoming the sample survey, Karimpuzha Raman, president, Kerala Brahmana Sabha, said the outcome of the sample survey should help the government go in for an elaborate survey like the Census. The data would serve as an eye-opener to the government, he said. Commission sources termed the NSS suggestion impractical as a detailed survey would require much resources and time to complete. The NSS represents a minuscule section of the 164 forward communities in the State. Its intention The sample survey was intended to obtain a general idea on the issues faced by the poor and to frame the recommendations accordingly, sources said. It was the issues faced by the poor and not their head count that mattered. The panel had only five months left in the office and the recommendations had to be submitted within the deadline, they added.  Sample survey among five poorest families in each ward, covering at least a lakh people NSS says survey should be conducted in a scientific manner Forum will boycott meeting convened by the commission concerned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nair-service-society-wont-cooperate-with-socio-economic-survey/article36816018.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,904 new COVID cases in district||As many as 1,904 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Sunday. While two infected persons came from outside the State, 1,883 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection could not be identified in 16 cases. Three health workers too tested positive. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 12.37%. The regions where over 40 cases were recorded include Vadakkekara (65), Thrikkakara(60), Kalamassery (56), Puthenvelikkara (48), and Karukutty (40). As many as 1,728 persons recovered. A total of 22,966 persons are under treatment. Vaccination for students In view of the reopening of colleges, the district administration will make arrangements for vaccination of students through outreach centres and private hospitals under the Sponsor-A-Jab programme, District Collector Jafar Malik said. The district administration has directed the health authorities to focus more on administration of second dose. It also told them to ensure that those who had received the first jab got the second shot in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1904-new-covid-cases-in-district/article36816172.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Defence Minister unveils Gandhi statue on Island||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveiled a six-feet tall statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Kavaratti on Saturday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Singh spoke of how Mahatma Gandhi’s life message was ‘Sarva Dharma Sama Bhav’ (no discrimination on the basis of religion). “People of Lakshadweep are following this message in its true spirit, although many tried to induce extremism, radicalism and terrorism in the isles. Being strategically located, Lakshadweep played a vital role in ensuring the maritime security of India,” he said and paid floral tributes to the Father of the Nation at Mahatma Gandhi Square, where the statue was erected. Speaking of the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan project, Mr. Singh said it was not limited to ensuring the cleanliness of land. “It includes clean-up drives of waterbodies and the sea. Everyone must take a solemn pledge to ensure cleanliness of the marine ecosystem. The Centre has decided to ban the manufacture, stocking, and sale of single-use plastics from July 2022.” The event was organised by the Lakshadweep Administration and was presided over by Praful Khoda Patel, Administrator of the Union Territory. Various functions were held during the three-day mega fest organised by the Administration in connection with Gandhi Jayanthi, from September 30 to October 2. In another function held at Mahatma Gandhi Square at Kavaratti, the Defence Minister distributed prizes to winners of various competitions. The digital inauguration of various development projects too was done. They included laying of foundation stone of KLI submarine optical fibre cable landing stations at Kiltan, Bitra, Bangaram and Kavaratti, a Polytechnic College at Minicoy, and a PSA oxygen plant at Androth. A host of cultural programmes followed. P.P. Mohammed Faizal, MP, took part. About 5,000 islanders turned up to witness the unveiling of the Gandhi statue despite rain, said Lakshadweep Collector Asker Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rajnath-unveils-gandhi-statue-in-lakshadweep/article36816170.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL to lease out 300 kiosk spaces||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has invited stakeholders interested in participating in an auction to lease out approximately 300 kiosk spaces in 22 metro stations on the Aluva-Pettah corridor for a five-year period. The licence period will be extendable by another two years. Base price and preferred businesses will be published on the website of the metro agency. The bidders will be able to bid for any one or multiple locations for kiosks in metro stations, says a KMRL release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-to-lease-out-300-kiosk-spaces/article36816171.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||School MD held on rape charge||The founder managing director of Sydney Montessori School, Joseph J., 49, a native of Ettumanur, was arrested by the Maradu police on the charge of blackmailing and repeatedly raping an employee who went to the school’s branches for auditing. The school has branches across the State. Blackmail The arrest followed a complaint by the victim that he had blackmailed and raped her during the past seven years. The Ernakulam South police and Infopark police too have registered cases after the woman complained of Joseph raping her repeatedly at the school’s branches in areas falling under their jurisdiction. He reportedly raped her after making her consume soft drinks laced with liquor. He has been remanded in judicial custody. Fire at factory A fire engulfed the upper floor of a matress factory at Marottichodu near Kalady on Sunday evening. None was injured, as it was holiday for the factory. Half-a-dozen fire tenders were engaged in dousing the flames, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-md-held-on-rape-charge/article36816174.ece
04 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Rabies scare puts tribal area under surveillance||The Health Department has put a tribal area in Piravanthur under close surveillance after a 17-year-old girl from there died of rabies, triggering panic among the residents. Reportedly, the victim was first taken to a local medical facility when she developed disorientation and later she was brought dead to a hospital. Her pathological autopsy revealed the presence of negri bodies, showing the girl was infected with rabies. “A team from Health Department visited the area and it was also decided to vaccinate all close contacts. Since the victim had said she was not bitten or mauled by any dog, she must have contracted the infection through an open wound. On Sunday, we vaccinated 27 persons,” said Deputy DMO Dr. R. Sandhya. No specific reports Since there has been no report of any stray dog in the area going berserk, the department approached the local body to deploy dog catchers. “There are two types of rabies—dumb and furious. In the first type, the dog will try to attack humans. But if it is dumb rabies, the animal will seem lethargic without any fear of humans. Since we have not identified the dog, all strays should be monitored.” While Rabies immunoglobulin is available at hospitals including Kollam District Hospital, all 16 health blocks in the district has Intradermal Rabies Vaccination (IDRV). Humans can contract the virus through non-bite exposures. “If an open cut is exposed to the saliva of a rabid dog, you will get it. You will experience a prickling sensation at the site of the bite leading to loss of appetite and muscle spasms. Get medical help early,” she adds. Due to faulty implementation of Animal Birth Control programme, stray dog menace has increased since some years in Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rabies-scare-puts-tribal-area-under-surveillance/article36816229.ece
04 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for Psychology trainee||Government Arts and Science College, Thazhava, has invited applications for Psychology apprentice post. Qualification needed is MA/MSc in Psychology while persons with experience in clinical psychology will be given priority. Salary will beRs. 17,600 per month. Interview will be on October 4 at 2 p.m. Contact: 04762864010, 9447140647.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-psychology-trainee/article36816230.ece
04 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||894 test positive in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 894 persons testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 884 persons including two health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. With 72 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Manjoor, which recorded 51 cases . As many as 1,014 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 5,177. Meanwhile, 54,623 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Kollam Kollam reported 746 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,924 recoveries on Sunday. While 742 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI and three health workers. At present the district has 42,417 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,51,834. While 1,315 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 3,81,127 primary and 20,912 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 11.2%. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 554 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. With 40 cases, Ayiroor reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pandalam, which reported 36 cases. The disease also claimed six lives in the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/894-test-positive-in-kottayam/article36816227.ece
04 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kerala-origin girl wins praise for U.N. speech on special children||While preparing to address the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child on ‘Children’s Rights in Alternative Care’, Amylin Rose Thomas did not have to look around and learn something new. She just enunciated everything that her family experienced over the years. Having cared for Immanuel, her nine-year-old brother with severe special needs, the teenager had witnessed the complexities, agony, and the sense of despair involved in helping children struggling to cope with disorders. And, she has chosen to make it a motivation instead of being weighed down by it. The right platform “Besides my brother, I have also worked with a lot of young patients with special needs as an intern at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia last summer. The U.N. has given me the right platform to expand the scope of my activities to areas, including Kerala. In fact, we are in consultations with a Kerala-based group that works in this field,” said the high school student over phone from the U.S. The 17-year-old girl from Philadelphia, daughter of Jose Thomas and Merline Augustine from Pala, Kottayam, represented the United States in the 2021 edition of the Day of General Discussion organised by the U.N. on September 16. The seven-minute speech, made as an introductory statement, has drawn praise from different quarters including local senator Katle Muth and former UN Under-Secretary General Shashi Tharoor, MP. Career choice In school, Ms. Thomas also runs the club for Operation Smile, a global non-profit medical service organisation that does free surgeries for children with cleft palate. A passionate public speaker, she was nominated to the Children’s Advisory Team of the U.N.’s Child Rights Connect as a representative of the U.S. for a term of two years and has been working with children all around the world. Keen to continue with her works in this direction, she plans to pursue a career as paediatric surgeon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-origin-girl-wins-praise-for-un-speech-on-special-children/article36816218.ece
04 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Plans afoot for water tourism in Kerala||With a view to tap the great potential of river-based tourism in Kerala, the government is working on a comprehensive plan to promote water tourism in the State, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas has said. He was inaugurating online the official launch of a Rs. 85.94 lakh Sewage Barge at Kumarakom, which will collect the waste from houseboats plying in the Vembanad Lake. According to him, plans were afoot to protect the precious lakes and water bodies of the state through responsible tourism. Efforts are being made to identify locations with tourism potential that have not not found a place the tourist map and turn them into tourism hubs, he said, while also urging the industry stakeholders to work hard to overcome the COVID-19 crisis and keep the booming tourism sector safe. Cooperation and Registration Minister V.N. Vasavan, who presided over the meeting, said a fund of Rs. 1 crore was sanctioned towards cleaning the Vembanad backwater. He also flagged off the sewage barge on the occasion. The barge with a capacity of 15 cubic meter will directly collect waste from houseboats and transport it to a treatment plant at Kanavattinkara. The barge can carry waste collected from up to 20 houseboats at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plans-afoot-for-water-tourism-in-kerala/article36816225.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beaches in Kozhikode city witness huge inflow of visitors||Beaches in Kozhikode city witnessed a huge inflow of visitors on Sunday, as they were thrown open to the public after an interval of over a year. Policemen on duty had a hard time managing the crowd and ensuring adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. People began swarming on the beach right from the morning. Many had come from nearby districts too. The renovated beaches had several new sights for visitors. Bunk shops too came alive with the arrival of visitors. Several people crowded at the newly set up selfie points. The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) had stayed away from reopening beaches even as other tourist destinations in the district were reopened, as it found it quite a task to manage crowd and ensure the safety protocol. DTPC Secretary C.P. Beena said enough police personnel had been deployed on beaches to control crowd, and that barricades would be set up to regulate visitors in case the crowd turns uncontrollable. Entry to the beach is banned after 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beaches-in-kozhikode-city-witness-huge-inflow-of-visitors/article36816135.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Allergy test camps under scanner||The Health Department will soon set up a State-level team of technical experts to look into the unauthorised allergy testing camps held by a Chennai-based private lab in various districts after placing full-page advertisements in prominent Malayalam newspapers. It is learnt that a preliminary inquiry is under way now in Thiruvananthapuram based on complaints by public health activists. The Kerala State Council for Clinical Establishments has also sought a report from the Director, Public Health Lab, and the District Medical Officer, Thiruvananthapuram. Rs. 3,600 per sample Advertisements on these camps, where suspected patients are supposed to give away their blood samples at a rate of Rs. 3,600, have been placed at least thrice on the front page of leading vernacular dailies this year. They were placed by Jerath Path Labs & Allergy Testing Centre, Speciality Diagnostic Laboratories, based in Chennai. Results are promised in a month and further treatment will be offered if additional charges are paid. The camps were held till October 3 across the State. Experts claimed that blood test alone cannot determine the allergy levels in a body and that detailed examination is required to understand them. Doctors’ opinion “Respiratory medicine experts have pointed out that it could be a fraud. Opinions of more experts are required. We plan to seek the help of doctors from government medical college hospitals as well,” C. Muraleedharan Pillai, Additional Director of Health Services (Vigilance) told The Hindu on Sunday. Earlier, the Consumer Complaints Council (CCI) of the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) had called the claims in these ads “misleading by exaggeration” that “are likely to lead to widespread disappointment in the minds of consumers”. Based on a complaint by M.P. Anil Kumar, functionary of Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics, Kerala, a wing of the Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad, the CCI said claims in the print advertisement contravened Chapter I, 1.1, 1.4 and 1.5 of the ASCI Code. Though the advertiser was advised to “suitably modify” or “withdraw the said advertisement” by October 7, almost similar claims were published on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allergy-test-camps-under-scanner/article36816180.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode braces for rain-related emergencies in view of yellow alert||The District-level Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has activated the functioning of district-level and taluk-level control rooms to remain prepared in the wake of the yellow alert sounded by the Indian Meteorological Department till October 6. Families living in areas vulnerable to extreme sea erosion and landslips have been asked to relocate to safer locations. Village officers from some of the landslip-prone areas said they had the list of facilities to open relief camps in case of emergencies. Temporary relief shelters would be provided with the support of local bodies concerned, they said. Revenue Department officials said the Saturday’s downpour and flood had caused huge loss to many traders and farmers in the district. Stormwater entered several shops in Mukkom, damaging products. Many traders had been asked to vacate the place for safety reasons, they said. Power supply had also been disrupted in many locations in the district following the collapse of electric poles on Saturday night. Though emergency repairing work was carried out by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) team on Sunday, it could not cover many village areas. KSEB officials said the issues could be settled completely by Monday. Officials with the DDMA said the district-level control room (04952-371002) would be available 24x7. The official toll-free number (1077) would also be functional apart from taluk-level helplines for the public, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-braces-for-rain-related-emergencies-in-view-of-yellow-alert/article36816147.ece
04 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police seize huge cache of smuggled tobacco products||The Mukkom police on Saturday arrested a Malappuram native with a huge cache of banned tobacco products. The accused, Ishaq Kodakkad, 34, was caught from Odatheruvu while he was proceeding to hand over the smuggled stuff, which was hidden inside a scooter, to a local drug peddler. The seized plastic carry bags contained over 3,000 packets of banned tobacco products. According to the police, they had a resale value of around Rs. 2 lakh. He secured the products from an unknown wholesale dealer from Karnataka, they said. It was the third such major seizure within a month from the area. Police sources said patrol squads were remaining alert on State and national highways to check maximum number of suspected vehicles and intercept movement of local smugglers. They also said vigil had been intensified in view of reopening of schools. A senior police officer said his team had details of a major inter-State narcotic smuggler from Karnataka who was suspected of having close links with local peddlers. “We got it while quizzing Ishaq and the team would take all possible steps to track him at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-seize-huge-cache-of-smuggled-tobacco-products/article36816137.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vadakara Municipality is first zero-waste local body in Kerala||Vadakara Municipality in Kozhikode district is the first zero-waste local body in Kerala. Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan made the declaration on Saturday, adding that Vadakara was a model for the whole State to achieve zero-waste status in five years. Vadakara MLA K.K. Rema, who presided over the event, said efforts would be made to emulate the model of the Vadakara Municipality in all local bodies in her constituency. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, State Coordinator of Nava Kerala Mission T.N. Seema, members of the administrative panel of the municipality and district coordinators of the Suchitwa Mission, Kudumbashree and Haritha Keralam Mission took part in the event. The Chairman’s Trophy for the best ward was awarded to wards 29 and 40 of the municipality for achieving 65% of the targeted hygiene. St. Antony’s Girls High School was the zero-waste school, while the Government Ayurveda Hospital, the Nalladathu Anganwadi, and the Vadakara railway station bagged the awards in their respective categories. Vadakara, which has earned many awards in the waste management front, is known for its out-of-the-box efforts to ensure proper segregation and disposal of waste, including recycling and upcycling it. It had come up with a hygiene protocol a few months ago, which played a major role in achieving the zero-waste status. The Hariyali Haritha Karma Sena of the municipality, with its expertise in the field, had developed into a green consultancy, giving technical guidance to other local bodies. It had also ventured into the tourism sector, managing the Vadakara Municipal Park and Sand Banks beach. Its role in converting waste dumping yards in the town into parks had been appreciated widely, as it denoted that Vadakara no longer had solid waste to dump anywhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vadakara-municipality-is-first-zero-waste-local-body-in-kerala/article36815748.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New watershed project for Thiruvambady||Promising better conservation of available water resources and their optimum utilisation to support agriculture ventures, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) with the support of government departments will implement a comprehensive watershed development project named ‘Neeruravu’ in Thiruvambady grama panchayat. About 550 hectares in and around Poyilingapuzha will be covered under the pilot project. MGNREGS coordinators say Poyilingapuzha is one of the prime locations identified by the project implementation team because of the areas’ richness in natural resources and the scope of conserving them. Three wards in Thiruvambady panchayat will primarily get its direct benefits at various stages of implementation, they add. The main attraction of the project is that it will create several labour days for local workers under the MGNREGS. Their support will be sought for all major works including the construction of retaining walls for preventing soil erosion, renovation of abandoned ponds, planting of saplings and construction of small check dams for water conservation. Priority will be given to cover areas where low-income families and backward communities live. “Our plan is to proceed with soil and water conservation projects after identifying the need of each landowner in the project area. The first phase of discussions with all stakeholders is over, and we expect good public participation. There will be also a transect walk ahead of the detailed project report preparation,” says T.M. Muhammed Ja, Joint Programme Coordinator, MGNREGS, Kozhikode. He also adds that the possibility of using funds of departments like Agriculture, Water Resources, Soil Conservation and Forest for projects will be explored. The opinion of traditional farmers will also be sought ahead of the project implementation under the supervision of the local panchayat authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-watershed-project-for-thiruvambady/article36816148.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online booking for PWD rest houses in State on the cards||Online booking system will be introduced in all the rest houses under the Public Works Department (PWD) in Kerala as part of the efforts to make them available for the public as well for short stay, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after launching a State-wide beautification project aimed at improving the surroundings of rest houses here on Saturday. Mr. Riyas said the new service would help the public easily access the services and facilities in all the 156 rest houses under the PWD. The renovation of 32 rest houses would begin soon to arrange better facilities for visitors, he added. “Apart from the renovation of rest houses, the government will also try to ensure a green surrounding for 14 select guest houses by plating herbal saplings and fruit plants,” said Mr. Riyas. The support of Kudumbashree members and labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme would be sought to realise it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-booking-for-pwd-rest-houses-in-state-on-the-cards/article36816144.ece
04 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth arrested on vehicle theft charge||A 30-year-old man from Kuruvattur panchayat in Kozhikode district who frequently targeted working women to steal their scooters was nabbed by the Chevayur police on Saturday. Shaneed Arafath, the suspect in the case, was arrested with 11 stolen two-wheelers. According to the police, the youth stole about 50 scooters from various parts of Kozhikode and Kannur districts. His style of operation was to secretly chase women riders to their homes and then escape with the vehicle if it was not properly locked by the owner, they said. All the thefts were made in short intervals. There were also occasions when he lifted more than two scooters a day. The police took up the case seriously noticing a strange increase in the number of complaints from women two-wheeler owners. The case was investigated under a team of officers led by Chevayur Circle Inspector P. Chandramohan. “As many of the owners left the keys with their vehicles in rush, it was easy for him to operate the theft. There were also documents like registration certificate and licence inside many vehicles which helped him sell them easily,” said a police officer from Chevayur station. He added that the youth was addicted to gambling and used to pawn stolen scooters for money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-on-vehicle-theft-charge/article36816136.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC to convert 3,000 buses to CNG||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is planning to convert its 3,000 diesel-powered buses to CNG to offer cost-effective service, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. The Minister was speaking to mediapersons after flagging off the trial service of a CNG-powered private bus at Balussery here on Friday. Mr. Raju said the first phase of the conversion process would cover 1,000 buses, for which funds had already been earmarked. The Minister said the industry would not move forward without exploring cost-effective alternatives like CNG. The State government had already come up with measures to open CNG distribution outlets in existing fuel stations. Admitting to the shortage of sufficient CNG filling stations in north Kerala, Mr. Raju said he would take up the issue with the Union government. “Also, there should be a better financial package for the vehicle owners who are ready to convert their vehicles to CNG,” he observed. The Kozhikode District Bus Operators Association leaders, who hosted the district-level launch event of the CNG-powered bus, said they would encourage more bus owners under their association to try modern CNG kits as they had been found effective in many other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-convert-3000-buses-to-cng/article36816140.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students celebrate ‘birthday of paddy’||Little ones of St. Mary’s Upper Primary School, Anakkampoyil, gathered in their paddy field on Sunday to celebrate the ‘birthday of paddy’. For them, it was a thrilling moment to re-enact the tradition, when farmers used to celebrate the ‘birthday of paddy’ on Makam day in the month of Kanni. The little farmers also read out a few chapters from a children’s novel written by Lekha Kakkanattu, an Assistant Agriculture Officer from Koduvally. The book, Kunjattakalude Koithupaattu , was selected for the observance as it had many interesting details on paddy farming. The school authorities said they encouraged students’ paddy farming activities along with small-scale vegetable cultivation as it was found creating a unique learning experience for children beyond the virtual world. “The highly popular Uma variety of paddy was used here which would offer a great visual treat for students during the school reopening on November 1,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-celebrate-birthday-of-paddy/article36816142.ece
04 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||7 new roads to come up in Kozhikode||Seven new roads and a bridge will come up in Kozhikode district under the City Improvement Project. This was announced by Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday while opening Sundaratheeram project of the Kozhikode Corporation to mark Gandhi Jayanthi. The 23-km extent of sea shore from Elathur to Beypore is being cleaned up with people’s participation. As many as 3,000 people are part of the drive to be held till October 8. Meanwhile, Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahmed launched Nammude Kozhikode, a cleanliness drive by the district administration in association with Inter-Agency Group, a conglomeration of non-governmental organisations. As a first step, Link Road near the railway station was cleaned up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-new-roads-to-come-up-in-kozhikode/article36816143.ece
04 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel continues tirade against Kunhalikutty||Former Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel is continuing his onslaught against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty. In a Facebook post on Sunday, Dr. Jaleel alleged that Mr. Kunhalikutty was responsible for the death of IUML State vice president V.K. Abdul Khader Moulavi. Describing Moulavi as the first martyr of the AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank fraud, Dr. Jaleel said the IUML vice president had died of pressure he suffered after learning that a Rs. 2 crore fake deal had taken place in his name at the AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. “Everyone knows that without the knowledge and support of Mr. Kunhalikutty, former bank secretary V.K. Harikumar could never do a fake deal in the name of Moulavi. He died of pressure and heartburns. Mr. Kunhalikutty cannot wash his hands of the death of Moulavi,” said Dr. Jaleel. Mr. Kunhalikutty, however, brushed aside Dr. Jaleel’s onslaught against him. “Don’t you have anything else to ask?” Mr. Kunhalikutty asked reporters when they pointed out Mr. Jaleel’s accusations against him here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jaleel-continues-tirade-against-kunhalikutty/article36816181.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students told to follow all COVID protocols||With higher education institutions reopening in the State on Monday, the Health Department has cautioned students, who are returning to their campuses after a long gap, to be mindful of all COVID-19 protocols and maintain universal safety precautions to prevent themselves from getting infected. In a statement here, the department pointed out that though the situation involving COVID-19 in the State was less threatening now, the State was not fully rid of COVID-19 and a low level of virus transmission was continuing in the State. Hence, students should maintain all vigil and ensure that the basic lessons of the pandemic of avoiding crowding and close interactions are not forgotten. Masks at all times Teachers and students should ensure that masks are worn properly at all times and that either N 95 masks or double masking should be followed. Masks should not be lowered while conversing in class or among friends. Physical distancing should be maintained between individuals. Eating together in college canteens should be totally avoided as virus transmission often happens at such gatherings when masks are lowered. None should come to campuses if they have symptoms of cold, respiratory illness or fever. Teachers or students can call the Health Department’s helpline (DISHA 104, 1056, 0471 2552056) to clarify any doubts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-told-to-follow-all-covid-protocols/article36816340.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keep off dubious persons, CM tells cops||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday warned police officers against associating with persons of questionable reputation. Chairing a Statewide meeting of law and order officers via videoconference, Mr. Vijayan said criminally inclined individuals often attempted to cultivate law enforcers for their illegal purposes. Officers should be careful not to lend such persons legitimacy by associating with them. They should shun organisations, persons and functions not cleared by the State Police Intelligence. Ideally, officers should not attend private functions in uniform. Recent controversy Mr. Vijayan’s comments came against the backdrop of photographs and videos of ranking officers socialising with an alleged “peddler of fake antiquities,” Monson Mavunkal, going viral on mainstream and social media. Honeytrap cases Instances of officers getting ensnared in honeytrap cases had dented the public standing of the force. So had nexus of some officers with organised crime. District Police Chiefs (DPCs) should ensure their respective jurisdiction was corruption-free, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the police operated under the public glare. They should not provide ammunition to those who seek to discredit the force. Officers should distance themselves from events that could draw public censure. The government would not brook abusive behaviour and custodial deaths. Praise too Mr. Vijayan praised the police for the selfless service rendered during the pandemic and natural disasters. The State police had an impeccable investigative track record. Officers should be mindful that poor judgement could affect the department’s image. Mr. Vijayan also slammed entities that constantly seek to blame the police. He called for better oversight of the force, and DPCs should personally look into complaints against subordinate officers. Senior officers should take station house inspections seriously. The police should not delay charge sheets. SPC Anil Kanth, ADGPs Manoj Abraham, K. Padmakumar, S. Sreejith were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-off-dubious-persons-cm-tells-cops/article36816188.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIIST team looking to develop ‘vegan leather’||After showing that agro-residues can be used to make chic tableware, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) – National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here is looking to develop ‘vegan leather’ from agro-wastes such as mango peels and pineapple leaves. The research on ‘vegan leather’ and food packaging material from farm waste is the next step in a research programme which used rice husk, sugarcane bagasse, fruit peel and wheat bran for making durable plates and cups, a success story which won the NIIST accolades at the national level in September. ‘Vegan leather’ is considered an eco-friendly and ethical substitute to leather from animal skin. The NIIST is working on technologies for its cost-effective development for use in consumer goods such as bags, footwear, wallets and belts, according to Anjineyulu Kothakota, NIIST scientist leading the project. It is not just mango peel and pineapple leaves that are going into the making of vegan leather. For raw material, the researchers are also working with banana stems and mushrooms, but the technique is basically similar. Vegan leather was durable and soft apart from being eco-friendly and cost-effective, Dr. Kothakota added. The NIIST had kicked off the work on the technology earlier this year following requests from various quarters for a cost-effective alternative to animal leather. NIIST researchers are keeping the exact process under wraps for the moment as their work is still in progress. However, they explained that only natural materials were used in the process. Another area they are looking into is production of food packaging material and take-away containers manufactured from post-harvest residues as a viable alternative to plastic packs that are now widely used. CSIR award In September, NIIST scientists won the prestigious CSIR Award for Science and Technology Innovations for Rural Development (CAIRD) for developing technologies for making plates, cups and cutlery from agro-residues as an alternative to single-use plastics. The award-winning team led by Dr. Kothakota, included Saju Pillai, M. Brahmakumar, Sushanth Kumar Sahoo, Partha Kundu, R.S. Praveen Raj and Venkatesh T.  NIIST is working on technologies for cost-effective development of ‘vegan leather’ for use in various consumer goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-team-looking-to-develop-vegan-leather/article36816328.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly set to witness a politically charged session||The third session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly, which convenes on Monday, is likely to be sedate and tumultuous in turns. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition will use the 24-day sitting to hold the 100-day old Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to account. The UDF is poised to bring the House to a standstill on a slew of topics. Crucial topics They include allegations of abusive police behaviour, ‘nexus’ between ranking officers and high-profile ‘swindlers’, ‘soft-pedalling’ the South Muttil rosewood felling case, ‘undercounting’ of COVID-19 deaths, public fears about the reopening of schools, lack of sufficient Plus One seats and dire state of public finances. Monson case The Monson Mavunkal episode featuring ranking officers in an unflattering light will likely provide some ground for wry jesting amidst serious lawmaking business. The ‘narcotic jihad’ controversy could figure prominently. The UDF could take the government to task for rejecting the demand for an all-party meeting and a round table of religious leaders to put the controversy to rest. Both coalitions are plagued by internal contradictions, with alliance partners at variance with each other on the issue. The LDF is primed to blunt the UDF's attack by highlighting the internal divisions in the Congress and the IUML. It will seek to fluster the Opposition by playing up recent defections from the Congress to the CPI(M). The Assembly is likely to consider various Bills covering local-self government, finance, taxes and employment guarantee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-set-to-witness-a-politically-charged-session/article36816186.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Promote healthy friendships, says Satheedevi||Healthy friendship between the sexes should be promoted in higher education institutions, Kerala Women’s Commission new chairperson P. Satheedevi has said. Ms. Satheedevi, who assumed charge on a day the State was shocked by the murder of a 22-year-old college student by her classmate, was talking to The Hindu on the rising crime against women, and the commission’s role in promoting women’s rights. Educational institutions should focus on fostering interaction between classmates, aimed at their recreation and creating good citizens. Instead of segregation of sexes, there should be common spaces where students could interact, laugh, and share ideas. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic had limited social communication, isolation could be dangerous, Ms. Satheedevi said. Girls should be watchful and be able to discern if expressions of affection and love were genuine, and not toxic. ‘Families must change’ Lasting change in attitudes to women could be achieved only through changes within families, she said. While patriarchy was the main factor responsible for the current attitudes to women, there were women who accepted these patriarchal notions. Gender equality had to be ensured within families, especially in the way young girls were reared. Education, had a huge role to play in this. Changes in the curriculum through gender audits were a step in this direction. ‘Train police force’ Ms. Satheedevi called for training for the police force so that they did not ignore a complaint by a woman or try and strike a compromise. Police personnel had to be trained in gender laws to ensure gender justice. The commission, she said, would discuss with experts how to better enforce dowry rules, especially those related to gifts that had been excluded from the purview of dowry. A gift given at the time of a wedding should be specified and be in the girl’s name. Wedding expenses should be limited. Recommendations by the commission in this regard would be further discussed, she said. The commission, she said, would lead an elaborate campaign to create awareness of women’s rights, with the support of departments such as Education, Labour, and Culture. Awareness also had to be created against unscientific practices and superstitions, and indecent representation of women in media, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/promote-healthy-friendships-says-satheedevi/article36816190.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Caution intact as colleges open doors today||After yet another COVID-19-induced break, colleges in the State are set to reopen on Monday. Postgraduate and final-year undergraduate students will be the first to enter the college portals, followed by first and second-year students on October 18. On Sunday, cleaning and disinfection activities were nearing completion in colleges. The institutions have been instructed to follow COVID-19 protocols strictly. Students are required to present their digital vaccination certificates at the help desks set up in colleges. Those infected with COVID-19 and hence have not been able to get vaccinated have to present documentation of infection. Hostels should prepare facilities for quarantining students. Colleges can decide Colleges have been asked to make their own decisions regarding accommodating students — whether students should come in separate batches the same day, on alternate days, or alternate weeks. Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu appealed to students to follow the safety norms with a sense of responsibility to others. Students, she said, had not been left untouched by the challenges brought on by COVID-19 such as loss of jobs . Reopening of colleges, she hoped, would help reduce the mental stress being experienced by them and bring them back to healthy state of mind. Health Minister Veena George reminded students that COVID-19 was still around and utmost vigil was needed against it. Double masking or N95 masks were important in protection against the Delta variants. Masks should not be lowered during conversations. Crowding should be avoided. They should not share stationery, water, or lunch and keep classroom doors and windows open. Students or teachers with cold, fever, or breathing trouble should not come to colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-intact-as-colleges-open-doors-today/article36816192.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District registers 1,420 more cases||The district logged 1,420 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 16,598. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 15%. In all, 1,354 people recovered from the infection, according to the district administration. The number of people in quarantine rose to 39,624 with the addition of 1,690 persons on Sunday. The TPR had stood at 14% on Saturday when 1,584 cases were reported. Lockdown The district administration has imposed stringent lockdown measures in 22 local body wards where the COVID-19 weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is above 10. This includes wards 11 and 17 of Attingal municipality and ward 13 of Nedumangad municipality. The list includes wards 1, 6, 10 and 13 of Vamanapuram grama panchayat, ward 3 of Amboori, ward 17 of Aruvikkara, ward 13 of Kadakkavur, ward 15 of Karakulam, ward 14 of Karavaram, ward 1 of Kuttichal, ward 1 of Manickal, ward 2 of Nagaroor, ward 6 of Pallikkal, ward 10 of Panavoor, ward 4 of Pulimath, ward 10 of Pullambara, ward 13 of Vellanad, ward 5 of Vettoor and ward 5 of Vithura. Curbs lifted The Ottasekharamangalam ward in Ottasekharamangalam panchayat has been excluded from the list of containment zones. Anakudi and Thoongayil in Vamanapuram panchayat, and Kannambally in Veelanad panchayat have also been removed from the containment zonelist, but lockdown measures will continue in these wards as the WIPR is above 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-registers-1420-more-cases/article36816330.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ISRO units to hold World Space Week celebrations||This year’s World Space Week celebrations organised by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) units here will kick off on Monday with a special address by astrophysicist Pascale Ehrenfreund. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy will inaugurate the celebrations at 10 a.m. Prof. Ehrenfreund, who heads the International Astronautical Federation and the International Space University, will address the function online. Organised by Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, and ISRO Inertial Systems Unit, WSW-2021 has the theme ‘Women in Space.’ This year’s events for school and college students include a ‘Space Habitat’ design challenge and competitions in painting, astrophotography, elocution, and quiz. The inauguration will be streamed live on VSSC’s YouTube channel.  ‘Space Habitat’ design challenge and competitions in painting, astrophotography, elocution and quiz will be part of events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-week-fete-from-today/article36816219.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Town planning amendment Bill to be tabled in House today||The Kerala Town and Country Planning Amendment Bill 2021, set to be tabled in the Assembly on Monday, is aimed at cutting down the delay in preparation of master plans of local self governments and for better planning in urban areas to withstand natural disasters and frequent flood events. However, planning experts are sceptical of some of the omissions from the original Act in the amendments. One omission is the provision for an execution plan at the local body level. The long period taken in the sanctioning process of the execution plan is being cited as a reason for replacing it with a priority action plan in the master plan. According to Jacob Easow, Former Additional Chief Town Planner, this will affect the dynamic planning system at the local level. ‘Bottlenecks’ “The execution plan is for five years while a master plan is for 20 years. By omitting the execution plan, our local bodies will lose the opportunity to act as local self-governments. Each newly elected local administration will not be able to have a relook at the plan. It will bring bottlenecks,” said Mr.Easow. The amendment Bill introduces a new set of plans at the local level parallel to the master plan for the respective city. However, this could create duplication as there will be two plans governing the same area, says Mr. Easow. In the existing Act, the master plan prepared by the local body is forwarded to the government, which accords approval, within 60 days of the receipt of the plan. In the amendment bill, the master plan is to be forwarded to the Chief Town Planner, who will within 45 days forward it to the government along with the remarks whether such plans are in accordance with other plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/town-planning-amendment-bill-to-be-tabled-in-house-today/article36816193.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Addiction-free drive in all educational institutes: Minister||Vimukthi Clubs will be formed in all educational institutions under the anti-addiction campaign of the State Excise Department and the Vimukthi Mission, Excise Minister M.V. Govindan has said. Inaugurating a month-long, Statewide anti-addiction awareness campaign to mark the 152nd Gandhi Jayanti Day celebrations here on Saturday, the Minister said programmes against alcohol and substance abuse would be organised in over 20,000 wards in local self-governments across the State with public participation. Underlining the need for a sustained campaign against addiction, the Minister said, “It is important to take the message down to the ward level by enlisting the support of all sections of society.” Dangerous level “Addiction to intoxicants has reached such a dangerous level that it has begun to affect the social consciousness and mental health of victims. Even children are falling prey to this evil. The activities of Vimukthi Mission should reach all educational institutions in the State as our ultimate aim is to root out this menace,” he said. Presiding over the function, Transport Minister Antony Raju urged the authorities of educational institutions to ensure that students did not get access to addictive substances. “We should be alert to efforts by vested interests to sabotage programmes against addiction. This has to be properly factored in while planning and carrying out the anti- addiction campaign,” he added. The Excise Minister released a CD on the awareness programmes conducted by Vimukthi Mission by presenting it to district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar. As a prelude to the campaign, a bicycle rally was organised in the city. Excise Commissioner S. Aananthakrishnan and Additional Excise Commissioner and Vimukthi Mission Chief Executive Office D. Rajeev were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-addiction-drive-in-all-educational-institutes-minister/article36816222.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,297 test positive, 16,333 more recover||Kerala logged 12,297 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The number of samples tested in 24 hours was 88,914. The Health Department’s data state that of the new cases, 3,413 were fully vaccinated, while 3,134 persons had no history of vaccination. It advises that those with co-morbidities amongst this cohort of unvaccinated persons should seek early medical care in hospitals. The State’s active case pool has declined to 1,37,043 patients, with 16,333 persons reported to have recovered on the day. According to the Health Department, only 11% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID-19 first line/second line treatment centres. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 25, 377 with the State adding 74 recent deaths to the official list on Sunday. ICU occupancy Current ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients in both public and private hospitals in the State dropped to 1,815 on Sunday. The figure was 1,851 on Saturday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has also come down to 791. On Sunday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 came down to 1,101 while the number of persons currently admitted with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State is steadily declining and now stands at 16,679. 26% decline During September 27-October 3, new cases declined by 26% when compared to the previous week. The number of active cases went down by 11% and the hospitalisations too reduced by 12% in comparison to the previous week.  Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 1,904 cases, Thrissur 1,552, Thiruvananthapuram 1,420, Kozhikode 1,112, Kottayam 894, Malappuram 894, Kollam 746, Palakkad 720, Alappuzha 700, Idukki 639, Kannur 606, Pathanamthitta 554, Wayanad 366 and Kasaragod 190 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12297-test-positive-16333-more-recover/article36816197.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Norms for international passengers revised: govt.||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has revised the guidelines for international travellers and accordingly, all passengers from the United Kingdom will have to undergo 10 days’ quarantine compulsorily upon arrival in the State, Health Minister Veena George said in a press release here on Sunday. Those from South Africa, Brazil and Europe will undergo seven days’ compulsory quarantine. All international travellers will be asked to undergo RT-PCR tests at the airports in the State. Samples to be taken This apart, respiratory samples of travellers from the U.K., South Africa, Brazil, Europe, West Asia, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe would be sent for virus genome sequencing also, as directed by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-for-international-passengers-revised-govt/article36816198.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DBT scheme for power subsidy for all districts||The direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for electricity subsidy to farmers is set to be extended to all districts. Direct transfer of electricity subsidy to farmers is among the conditions set by the Centre for permitting additional borrowing by States. In Kerala, the scheme was piloted in Pathanamthitta district in November 2020. The State government, through a September 22 order, gave its nod for extending DBT to all districts on the basis of a recommendation made by the Director of Agriculture. The subsidy will be paid in advance into the bank accounts of beneficiary groups/‘padasekhara samithis’ under the DBT scheme. The groups need to be registered under the Act governing charitable societies. The scheme also calls for the creation of a joint bank account for the president and secretary of the group and the agriculture officer concerned. The amount paid in advance on the bimonthly electricity bill will be derived from the electricity usage during the previous two months. At present, bills are settled directly by the Agriculture Department once the Kerala State Electricity Board section offices generates them. Agricultural electricity tariffs come under LT-V(A) and LT-V(B) categories.  The KSEB has been directed not to disconnect supply or collect surcharge and penal interest if the Agriculture Department delays the advance payments. Criticism Meanwhile, the Association of Agricultural Officers Kerala has criticised the decision to remit the electricity charges through bank accounts of padasekhara samithis and beneficiary groups. It could open the doors for irregularities involving public funds, the association said in a letter to Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, calling for a review of the September 22 order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dbt-scheme-for-power-subsidy-for-all-districts/article36816182.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Follow life of simplicity, says Apostolic Nuncio||Apostolic Nuncio to India Archbishop Leopoldo Girelli has hailed the value of tolerance and exhorted believers to shun opulence and follow a life of simplicity. He was addressing the laity at the St. Joseph’s Metropolitan Cathedral here on Sunday on the occasion of the Thiruvananthapuram Latin archdiocese day celebrations. Archbishop M. Soosa Pakiam, Auxiliary Bishop Christudas and Vicar Monsignor Nicolas T. participated in the Holy Mass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shun-opulence-apostolic-nuncio-tells-believers/article36816333.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sale of illicit liquor: man arrested||An excise squad has arrested a 62-year-old man on charge of selling illicit liquor on a motorbike during an inspection at Punnakkad. The accused was identified as Arjunan of Perumpazhathoor in Neyyattinkara taluk. He is an accused in six Abkari cases. The inspection was led by Neyyattinkara excise range preventive officer Shaju. The team seized from Arjunan the motorbike, 3.5 litres of liquor, and Rs. 500 obtained from sale of liquor. Excise officials said he was under their observation for some time. On spotting the team, he abandoned the vehicle and tried to flee but was given chase and arrested. Arjunan was produced in court and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sale-of-illicit-liquor-man-arrested/article36816336.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two youths were killed when the motorbike they were travelling on collided with a mini-van on the Mannanthala-Maruthoor road on Sunday evening. The dead were identified as Vishnu Sankar, 27, of Ayiroopara, and Dethu, 34, of Nalanchira. The accident occurred around 5.30 p.m. The two were rushed to Government Medical College Hospital here but could not be saved. The bodies have been shifted to the hospital mortuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accident/article36816337.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to make Kattakkada a carbon-neutral segment||I.B. Sathish, MLA, on Saturday launched a campaign to turn Kattakkada into a carbon-neutral constituency. The campaign aims at reducing the carbon footprint in the constituency by controlling the output of the same from residences, industries and from vehicles, and combining it with actions for energy conservation, spread of organic farming and soil and water conservation. As part of the first phase of the campaign, awareness programmes are being conducted for a month across the constituency till November 1. The campaign will focus on school and college student population numbering around 45,000. At the inaugural event, Pollution Control Board Executive Engineer Biju B. handled the sessions, while Land Use Board Commissioner A. Nizamudeen presented the action plan. Second phase In the second phase, a campaign will be organised focussing on the residents’ associations, voluntary organisations and various clubs. Mr. Sathish said that the actions to cut down on the carbon output would be taken up with the participation of all sections of people in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-make-kattakkada-a-carbon-neutral-segment/article36816338.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert issued in two districts today||The State is poised to receive heavy rainfall till at least Thursday with a low pressure area expected to form over the Arabian Sea by Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Orange alerts for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall have been issued for Pathanamthitta and Idukki on Monday; Idukki and Malappuram on Tuesday; and Kozhikode on Wednesday, according to an IMD weather update on Sunday. Low-pressure area Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, Wayanad, and Kasaragod are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Monday. Several districts have been put on yellow alert on October 5, 6 and 7 as well. A cyclonic circulation currently lies over southeast Arabian Sea off the Kerala coast, extending up to 3.1 km above mean sea level. “Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours,” the IMD Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said in a Sunday afternoon update. Warning to fishers Squally weather with wind speeds touching 40-50 kmph is likely over the Arabian Sea along and off the Kerala, Karnataka, and Goa coasts till Tuesday. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during the above period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-issued-in-two-districts-today/article36816195.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Arrested on fraud charge||The police have arrested a 40-year-old woman on the charge of committing fraud in a private finance firm. The woman was identified as Deepa of Andoorkonam. She had allegedly amassed more than Rs. 10 lakh, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-on-fraud-charge/article36816327.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. doctors’ protest from today against pay cut||Government doctors in Kerala will boycott trainings, online meetings and e-Sanjeevani, an online teleconsultation system, from October 4 in protest against a cut in their pay and allowances, an association representing them said on Sunday. The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), in a release, said from Monday it would start its ‘non-cooperation agitation’ by boycotting e-Sanjeevani, all trainings, and online meetings. The protest would be intensified from October 15 if their grievances are not addressed. Tougher measures From October 15, doctors would also boycott review meetings, VIP duty and meetings of the Local Self-Government Department, the KGMOA said. If their grievances are still not addressed, then from November 1 they will hold a ‘relay standing protest’ in front of the Secretariat and thereafter, on November 16 the doctors would go on a mass casual leave, the association has said. The association had on Saturday said that since the COVID-19 outbreak, the doctors and health workers have been working hard to take care of those infected, despite lack of basic facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-doctors-protest-from-today-against-pay-cut/article36816183.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree launches new groups||Formation of Kudumbashree auxiliary groups and their functioning is a historic mission, Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan has said. He was speaking after the State-level inauguration of the auxiliary groups at Kalippankulam here on Saturday. Mr. Govindan said the primary aim of the groups, meant for women in the 18-40 age group, was to impart confidence to women that they could be financially independent. Many educated women were unemployed. This should change. Women should find self-employment in sectors such as IT and biotechnology too. The auxiliary groups should transform themselves into entities that can raise their voice against anti-social and anti-democratic issues. Each member should become an entrepreneur, he said. Income generation Entrepreneurship development training and other programmes would be held for the members. They would also be linked with the Union and the State government’s employment schemes and skill training centres to equip them to enter income-generating sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-launches-new-groups/article36816326.ece
04 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC||The Public Service Commission will be strengthened further by giving it the powers to carry out recruitments to more posts, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said that the State was following an alternative development path of protecting the public sector, while the Union government was privatising all PSUs. He was inaugurating the 48th State conference of the Kerala PSC Employees’ Union here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc/article36816235.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special team to probe fake antiquities racket||The State government has constituted a special team to probe the suspected shenanigans of alleged fake antiquities racketeer and “confidence trickster” Monson Mavunkal. ADGP, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith will head the special team. The Crime Branch recently arrested Monson on charge of selling handcrafted cheap wares as authentic relics to uninformed, well-heeled persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-to-probe-fake-antiquities-racket/article36816199.ece
04 October 2021||Thiruvananthpuram,KERALA||Legal outreach launched||Kerala High Court judge Sarasa Venkatanarayana Bhatti, who is also the portfolio judge of the Thiruvananthapuram district judiciary, on Saturday inaugurated the programmes of the District Legal Services Authority as part of a pan-India awareness and outreach programme launched by the National Legal Services Authority and the Supreme Court of India. In his inaugural address, Justice S.V. Bhatti reminded that the fruits of freedom and liberty being enjoyed by the countrymen were the results of sacrifices made by previous generations, and it should be upheld for the coming generations. Fundamental duties He emphasised the fundamental duties enshrined in Article 51A of the Constitution, and asked the gathering to practise these principles. President Ram Nath Kovind had inaugurated the national programme in connection with the 75th year of Independence. The judge proposed a pledge that adheres to ideal of ethos and values that inspired the national struggle, involvement in environmental protection activities, compassion towards fellow beings, and so on. P. Krishnakumar, District and Sessions Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, presided over the inaugural ceremony that was telecast live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-outreach-launched/article36816325.ece
04 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Rain wreaks havoc in Thrissur district||Heavy rain that has been lashing Thrissur for the last two days has been wreaking havoc in the district. Low-laying areas have been inundated and many trees uprooted. Power supply was disrupted in many areas after branches of trees fell over them. Many families at Mattathur panchayat were rehabilitated after the Poovali canal and Valiya canal breached at Vellikkulam. Many houses were inundated when a temporary bund breached in Thrikkur. Two houses were damaged at Kizhakkumpattukara after a wall collapsed on them. Many shops are under water near Kurudi bridge at Varantharappilly. More than 300 poultry birds died after a chicken farm at Konnakkuzhi was inundated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-thrissur/article36816138.ece
04 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KSU shows black flag to Minister||Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists on Sunday blocked Revenue Minister K. Rajan’s vehicle and waved black flags at him alleging that the Minister was trying to protect a POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) case accused. The protesters alleged that the Minster was trying to scuttle the case using his political influence. “The CPI is protecting the accused, who was expelled from the Congress party. The Minster is trying to save the accused from Nattika Assembly Constituency. The CPI, which claims to be saviours of women’s rights, are protecting an accused who violated the rights of children,” they said. The KSU asked how can the Minister, a national leader of the AIYF give place for a POCSO accused in the organisation. Those who argue for gender justice are conveniently ignoring the rights of women in the case of the accused. It’s an open challenge against society, they said. The activists waved black flags when the Minister was returning after a function at Sree Narayana Hall, Nattika. Minor altercation occurred between KSU activists and CPI workers. The police arrested the KSU leaders, who led the protest. In a statement Youth Congress State general secretary Sobha Subin demanded action against those who unleashed attacks on KSU activists, who were protesting peacefully. The CPI will have to pay a hefty price if they try to handle peaceful protests with violence, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-shows-black-flag-to-minister/article36816298.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Left high and dry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/left-high-and-dry/article36816224.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making way for metro||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-way-for-metro/article36816165.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Some solace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/some-solace/article36816233.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Navaratri idols start journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navaratri-idols-start-journey/article36816335.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Message of peace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/message-of-peace/article36816345.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Monkey business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monkey-business/article36815754.ece
04 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roundtable flags ‘flaws’ in implementation of MGNREGS||The implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is mostly flawed and only 20% of the job card holders could get 100 days of work and that too the payments that are supposed to be paid within 15 days have been pending for more than six months now, observed speakers at a roundtable on the implementation and outcome of the 15 years of implementation of the scheme in Anantapur on Sunday. Participating in the programme, A.P. Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham president Dadala Subba Rao said that the government needed to pay a penalty of 0.5% interest per month for the delayed period if wages were due beyond 15 days. The rural farm labourers and unskilled personnel were supposed to get 100 days of work. However, a majority of the job cardholders and those getting work came from relatively well-to-do farming families. “The Centre and State governments must ensure that horticulture activity is also supported by this scheme,” he pointed out. ‘Paltry wage’ “Given the wage of Rs. 247 per day under the scheme, it is difficult for the beneficiaries in the Rayalaseema Region to support their families. It is atrocious on the part of the Centre to allocate only Rs. 70,000 crore for the scheme in the current year’s budget against Rs. 1.10 lakh crore allocated last year. The per day wage offered is much below than Rs. 18,000 per month suggested by the Supreme Court guidelines,” Mr. Subba Rao pointed out. Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah said the State government was doing its best to implement the MGNREGS. The other participants, however, took objection to the government including housing and other such activities. Demand to include agriculture activity within its scope was watering down the scheme altogether, they opined. The soft soils, medium-hard soils, and the hard soils should be categorised separately for calculating the quantum of work done for the daily wage, they said, citing an example of loose soils in Godavari districts in contrast with that of Anantapur and Kadapa region. ‘Collective effort needed to bring a change’ Former MLC M. Geyanand said a concerted effort must be made to bring pressure on the government to get the MGNREGS implemented properly. All the people’s organisations, political parties and NGOs must work in tandem to achieve dignity of life for the rural poor and stop the migration of farm labourers and unskilled workers from Andhra Pradesh. Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability president Gurpreet Singh from New Delhi participated in the meeting through video link. The Centre for Rural Studies and Development and Praja Parirakshana Samithi president Bose, CPI(M) district secretary V. Rambhupal and Manava Hakkula Vedika president Basha and others participated in the porgramme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roundtable-flags-flaws-in-implementation-of-mgnregs/article36815806.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conversion claims spark tension||Tension prevailed outside Chickballapur town police station after two religious groups confronted each other and got into a heated argument over allegations of conversion. The police had to use mild force to disperse the crowd. Trouble began after a right-wing organisation demanded that the police act against a missionary group from a minority community, claiming that it had been conducting vocational training classes in tailoring over the last three months. Members alleged that the missionary group was practising conversion. The incident occurred in Kandavara area. Alleging that their religious sentiments had been hurt, the right-wing group lodged a complaint with the police. “An FIR has been registered against five persons and investigation is on. No arrests have been made,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conversion-claims-spark-tension/article36815788.ece
04 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP core committee makes shortlist of candidates for bypolls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) core committee, which met on Sunday in the presence of Arun Singh, in-charge of party affairs in the State, shortlisted the candidates for the two bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi constituencies, scheduled to be held on October 30. While former MLA Ramesh Bhusanur has emerged as a front runner for Sindgi, Revathi Udasi, daughter-in-law of C.M. Udasi, whose death has necessitated the bypoll, is preferred for Hangal, sources said. C.T. Ravi, general secretary of BJP, said the core committee has shortlisted names for the two constituencies and authorised State president Nalin Kumar Kateel to recommend them to the party high command, which would finalise the candidates and announce them shortly. “Both internal and external surveys have indicated that the BJP will win both seats,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Singh also expressed confidence that the party would win in both constituencies. “The shortlisted names will be sent to the Central Election Committee, which will decide and make an announcement soon,” he said. Sources in the core committee said Ashok Allapur and Shambuling Kakkalameli, two senior BJP workers from Vijayapura, were the other two names being considered for Sindgi. There was speculation that Ashoka Managuli, son of senior JD(S) leader M.C. Managuli, whose death has necessitated the bypoll, would contest from the BJP. But party sources said that Mr. Ashoka Managuli was likely to join the Congress and since the BJP had a strong leader in Mr. Bhusanur — a two-time MLA who lost to Managuli in 2018 — they were not keen on importing a leader. The BJP has put senior Ministers Govind Karjol, C.C. Patil and V. Somanna, among others, in charge of the byelection in the constituency. In Hangal Former Haveri MLA Shivaraj Sajjanar, zilla panchayat member B.S. Soppin, and BJP Haveri district president Siddaraj Kalakoti, apart from Ms. Revathi Udasi, are the names recommended for Hangal. MP for Haveri Shivakumar Udasi, son of C.M. Udasi, had himself expressed interest to contest in the bypoll to enter State politics, sources said, but the party has ruled out such a proposition to ensure there isn’t another bypoll. Mr. Udasi has pushed for his wife Ms. Revathi to get the ticket in order to retain the seat in the family. BothB.S. Yediyurappa and Basavaraj Bommai, who were close to C.M. Udasi, have favoured the candidature of Ms. Revathi Udasi, sources said. “It is up to the high command to decide whether to go for a family person or not. Theparty did successfully field Suresh Angadi’s wife in the Belagavi byelection. So we are not averse to it either,” a senior leader said. The party has made senior Ministers Murugesh Nirani, B.C. Patil, and J.C. Madhuswamy in charge of the bypoll in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-core-committee-makes-shortlist-of-candidates-for-bypolls/article36815747.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGRI proposes landslip warning system||The Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research -National Geophysical Research Institute (CSIR-NGRI) has launched an ‘Environmental Seismology’ group to develop a ‘Landslide and Flood Early Warning System’ for the Himalayan region based on real-time monitoring with dense seismological networks, coupled with satellite data, numerical modelling and geomorphic analysis. “This would give a crucial warning several hours prior, which will save human lives and property,” said Director V.M. Tiwari on Friday. The need for such an early warning system was necessitated following February’s rockslide flood disaster in Chamoli (Uttarakhand), where a steep glacier on the Nandadevi peak in Garhwal Himalaya got detached, causing a major avalanche and inducing flash floods in the Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers. It killed several persons downstream and caused severe damage to two power plants. “We run a dense network of about 100 seismograph stations in Uttarakhand in western Himalayas and these events were well recorded,” he said. Scientists at the NGRI in collaboration with German scientists at GFZ, Potsdam, used spectrogram analysis techniques to identify and separate out various phases, including that of the rockslides, debris flow and flooding of the event. The broadband seismic network enabled a complete spatio-temporal tracking of the entire disaster sequence using polarisation and back-tracing approaches, said Dr. Tiwari. A major player Since climate change was a major player in accelerating ice loss through glacier melt and flash floods caused by glacier retreat, major efforts were needed to maintain the fragile ecosystem in the multi-hazard prone Himalayan region. This also had important implications for the planning of infrastructural development of dams, power plants and other projects by governments, which were of great strategic and societal importance to the country, said the Director. The joint study had been published in the latest issue of the prestigious American Science journal, for which Dr. Tiwari and other colleagues D. Srinagesh, N. Poornachandra Rao and research associates Rajesh R, Himanshu Paul, Prantik Mandal and G. Suresh contributed from the NGRI. Teleseismic signals from the beginning of this event were recorded at different stations on a regional seismic network up to 100 km from the disaster and demonstrated the potential for these far-away monitoring stations to be useful for early warning, the paper said. While a seismic network designed for earthquake detection may not be ideal for the monitoring of geomorphic events, an evaluation of the expected anthropogenic (man-made) and environmental noise levels should be carried out before locating stations for geomorphic event detection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngri-proposes-landslip-warning-system/article36815745.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana’s borrowings close to Rs. 21,000 cr. by August-end||The State government’s borrowings are close to Rs. 21,000 crore in the first five months of the current financial year. According to the monthly key indicators for August available with the CAG, borrowings and liabilities of the State up to August reached Rs. 20,941.84 crore. This is Rs. 5,958 crore higher than the borrowings of Rs. 14,983 crore reported till July. The borrowings are much higher than the figures projected in the tentative calendar released by the RBI for the first two quarters. The State indicated that it would raise open market borrowings of Rs. 14,000 crore – Rs. 8,000 crore in the first quarter and another Rs. 6,000 crore in the second quarter. The State raised around Rs. 12,000 crore between April and June and over Rs. 8,000 crore from July to September this fiscal through State development loans and auction of securities. The government kept provision in the budget for raising Rs. 45,509 crore through borrowings during the current fiscal and the amount raised is in line with the projection made in the budget. CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Minister K.T. Rama Rao have however, asserted that the debts obtained for spending on capital assets should not be seen as liability but as investment for the future. Meanwhile, the State’s revenues continued their impressive growth during the month with tax revenue pegged at Rs. 9,000 crore. The cumulative tax revenue till August was Rs. 37,591 crore against Rs. 28,591 crore of the previous month. Revenue through GST reached Rs. 12,461 crore against the Rs. 35,520 crore projected for the year and collection of sales tax was reported at Rs. 10,590 crore against the projected Rs. 26,500 crore. Registration and Stamps department reported cumulative revenue of Rs. 3,787 crore against the year’s target of Rs. 12,500 crore and earnings from Excise duties were reported to be Rs. 6,048 crore (target for the year Rs. 17,000 crore). Share of Union taxes was Rs. 2,854 crore (Rs. 8,721 crore), other taxes and duties Rs. 1,848 crore (Rs. 6,652 crore) and grants in aid and contributions Rs. 4,183 crore (Rs. 38,669 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telanganas-borrowings-close-to-rs-21000-cr-by-august-end/article36815749.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police grill ex-director of Telugu Akademi, others||Former director of Telugu Akademi Somi Reddy and two others were questioned by the Central Crime Station police, Hyderabad, on Sunday in connection with the alleged financial fraud in the Akademi’s fixed deposits. Apart from Mr. Reddy, Akademi’s accounts officer Ramesh, outsourced employee Rafeeq, and a few others were also grilled by the investigators for over three hours. Sources said that the former director informed the police that he was not aware of the fraud. The CCS police asked the ‘suspects’ to surrender the digital video recorder (DVR) of CCTV cameras of the Akademi. However, they told police that the DVR was already submitted to the three-member probe committee constituted by the State government. Meanwhile, one A. Rajkumar, who created fake and forged FD bonds, ID cards and other documents and submitted them was reportedly taken into custody by the police. “The entire fraud is of over Rs. 64 crore. The accused, including bank staff, liquidated the fixed deposits of the Telugu Akademi by submitting forged fixed deposit bonds and siphoned off the money,” the police said. More arrests in connection with the case are likely to happen on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ccs-police-grills-ex-director-of-telugu-akademi-others/article36815752.ece
04 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan attends father-in-law’s death anniversary||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday offered floral tributes to his father-in-law E.C. Gangi Reddy on his first death anniversary. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with his family members including his mother Vijayamma and wife Bharathi, participated in the memorial meeting held at Pulivendula. He later released a book, ‘Marapurani Gnapakam – Dr. E.C. Gangi Reddy’. Minister A. Suresh, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and Whip Ch. Bhaskar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-attends-father-in-laws-death-anniversary/article36816290.ece
04 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||177 sq.km around Coringa declared Eco-Sensitive Zone||The Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change has declared 177.30 square kilometres surrounding the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS) as an Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) in order to protect the sanctuary and its ecosystem from future threats in the Godavari estuary in Andhra Pradesh. The total extent of the sanctuary is 235.70 square kilometres, including the entire Hope Island in the Bay of Bengal. The gazette of the ESZ was published on September 22 based on the draft prepared by the State government. On the sea side of the sanctuary, the ESZ extends from 500 metres to 5 km excluding port limits, 50 metres towards the northern boundary, and up to 11.5 km towards the southern side. From Kakinada city side, the ESZ is restricted to 50 metres from the boundary line of the sanctuary. The future development needs of Kakinada city, present activities of Kakinada port, and the primary livelihood activity (fishing) of the villagers settling around the sanctuary were the factors that necessitated the decision. The main objective is to protect and conserve the Fishing Cat, Indian Smooth-coated Otter, Olive Ridley Turtles and the bird species in the sanctuary. The State government has been directed to prepare a Zonal Master Plan within two years to protect the ESZ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/177-sqkm-around-coringa-declared-eco-sensitive-zone/article36816294.ece
04 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held, 1 tonne ganja seized in E.G.||The East Godavari police on Saturday arrested four persons and seized 1,000 kg ganja from them when they were reportedly transporting the contraband from Visakhapatnam Agency to Hyderabad. The total worth of ganja is said to be Rs. 2 crore. Speaking to mediapersons on Sunday, East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu said that the contraband, stuffed in a generator box of a lorry carrying bore-well rig, was seized at Addaripeta beach road under Thondangi police limits during a raid. The gang had procured the ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency, he said. The accused have been identified as Ambati Raju, Vipparthi Samuel and G. Raj Kumar of East Godavari district and I. Veera Venkata Ramesh of West Godavari. The police registered a case and have commenced an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-1-tonne-ganja-seized-in-eg/article36815809.ece
04 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor units destroyed in Coringa||Police on Sunday raided some areas in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary and destroyed 3,600 litres of jaggery wash and eight ID liquor production units in Ramannapalem of Tallarevi mandal in East Godavari district. The raid was conducted by the Law and Order police. In an official release, SP M. Ravindranath Babu said that the police conducted the raids in the Coringa mangrove cover and destroyed the ID liquor production units and about 3,600 litres of jaggery wash found in 25 drums. Kakinada Rural CI A. Murali Krishna said the mangrove cover is part of the sanctuary. The personnel ventured into the backwaters on boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-units-destroyed-in-coringa/article36816316.ece
04 October 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala boy, who got lost in forest, rescued||A 15-year-old boy, who went missing on Saturday after he ventured into a forest near Mallom village at Vellarikund taluk in Kasaragod, Kerala, was rescued following a joint search operation carried out by authorities on Sunday. Lijeesh, a Class IX student, is the son of Shaji, a resident of Mallom village. He went missing on Saturday evening after he went to fetch water for the house from a pipeline that crossed through the forest. Locals, police, Fire and Forest Department personnel, searched late into the night on Saturday, but could not find Lijeesh, who had ventured deeper into the forest due to heavy rain. He was finally located and rescued early on Sunday. Forest officials said the boy had lost his way in the forest due to heavy rain. He was safe and healthy, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-boy-who-got-lost-in-forest-rescued/article36815739.ece
04 October 2021||KUKUNUR (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Giri Nestam’ to help tribals prepare for SI posts||The Polavaram sub-division police launched ‘Giri Nestam’ programme for tribal youth preparing for Sub-Inspector (SI) and constable posts in the Police Department. The police and the revenue officers distributed study material to about 65 youth who completed graduation and were preparing for SI posts, the DSP said. As part of the programme, police will launch libraries at Kukunur and Velerupadu in the district to help tribal youth prepare for competitive examinations, Ms. Latha Kumari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/giri-nestam-to-help-tribals-prepare-for-si-posts/article36815804.ece
04 October 2021||MULUGU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for killing tiger in Telangana||A tiger was killed by suspected members of an inter-state gang of poachers using an electric trap in the forest area of Mulugu district on September 21. The incident came to light on Sunday after a joint team of police and the forest staff nabbed four alleged poachers during a vehicle checking drive and seized a nail of the killed tiger from a Chhattisgarh-bound car at a forest route near Kodishala in the tribal majority district on Sunday morning. The accused were identified as Madakam Naresh, 25, Erumaiah, 24, Madakam Mukesh, 42, and Deva, 23, all hailing from a tribal habitation of Gutti Koya near Kodishala village. Giving the details of the seizure of tiger nail at a press conference in Mulugu on Sunday, Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil along with Chief Conservator of Forests, Warangal Circle, Asha said that the accused killed the tiger using an electric trap at a strategic location in the forest on September 21. They along with their accomplices removed the skin of the tiger and carried its skin and nails with them leaving other body parts at the site. They were caught while heading to Chhattisgarh in a car to show the tiger’s nail to buyers and fix up a deal to sell the skin and other body parts. The accused, identified as podu farmers, reportedly confessed to the police that they resorted to poaching to earn extra money to meet their expenses. The joint squad of police and forest personnel seized tiger skin, skeletal remains, parts of leg, nails and snares used in poaching the tiger from the accused. Mulugu ASP Potharaju Sai Chaitanya, DFO Shiv Ashish and others were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-poachers-held-for-killing-tiger-in-telangana/article36815751.ece
04 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police deny role as huts gutted in Nellore||Several huts in Nakala Gopal Nagar were gutted in Nellore late on Saturday. The incident sparked a row with the residents alleging involvement of the police in the fire. The residents staged a demonstration in-front of the office of Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu alleged that some police personnel in plain clothes, in collusion with some real estate developers, were responsible for the incident. ‘No complaint received’ However, the police denied the allegations. Nellore Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Srinivasulu Reddy clarified to the media that neither had the Revenue Department nor any private person complained about any encroachment of land in the colony in question. Following an alert from the Revenue Division Officer D. Hussein Saheb that some persons were moving around with weapons including knives in the area, the police went to the area to avert any possible law and order problem, he explained, adding that some huts were torched by some unidentified persons. No police complaint had been lodged in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-deny-role-as-huts-gutted-in-nellore/article36815813.ece
04 October 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||163 new COVID cases in South Coastal Andhra||The number of active coronavirus cases declined further to a little over 2,900 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as the region registered lesser number of new cases compared to recoveries in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 2,138 as one more person succumbed to the viral disease in SPSR Nellore district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. Prakasam district reported zero deaths during the period. The region reported 163 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the overall coronavirus case count closer to the 2.83 lakh-mark. As many as 235 persons in the region, including 122 in SPSR Nellore district, recovered from the disease during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/163-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-andhra/article36815811.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress’s bid to woo women voters||The Congress in Karnataka is making a serious bid to woo women voters in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly election, launching a programme called ‘Na Nayaki’ (I’m a leader) in all the constituencies of the State. According to State Congress sources, the programme would run training workshops for women who had fought local body polls on the Congress symbol and even for those who had not. “All women who have fought local body polls, even if they have lost and whether they have fought on the party symbol or not, will be reached out to under this programme. There are 22 geographical clusters where the workshops will take place, covering roughly 10 Assembly seats each [Karnataka Assembly has 224 seats]. After the training workshop, each person attending will be asked to connect to 10 more women in their areas,” said a source. Suggestions made by women during the workshops may also be included in the Karnataka Congress’s manifesto. “One suggestion that was made, and which will be included, is that the mother’s name also be included in the Aadhaar card registration along with that of the father,” said the source. Speaking to The Hindu , Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said this was an important part of the preparations for the party going into the Assembly poll. “Rajiv Gandhi had said that a leader was one who created leaders and not just followers, and that is the logic behind this programme,” he said. Currently in the pilot stage, it would be fully rolled out soon. For a long time, the women’s vote had been considered an undefined category dominated by the choices made by the men of the family. But this category had come into its own in recent years, as witnessed during the Tamil Nadu elections in 2016, Bihar in 2020 and so on. In Bihar, consistently higher percentage of voting in the last few polls was termed as one of the main causes for Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s wins, a politician who has assiduously courted the women’s vote for many years. For the Congress in Karnataka, where the party had a robust organisational framework, the road to the Vidhan Soudha was being seen as going through the women’s vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congresss-bid-to-woo-women-voters/article36815758.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka order on travellers from Kerala challenged in SC||A Kerala legislator has appealed to the Supreme Court challenging the validity of a Karnataka government order restricting the free movement of persons from neighbouring Kerala. Karnataka had mandated that persons from Kerala travelling into the State should possess a negative RT-PCR certificate. The test should have been done within 72 hours of travel, irrespective of having taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccination, A.K.M. Ashraf, an Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA, said. He submitted that Karnataka’s July 31 regulation had led to even persons with two doses of the vaccine being required to take the RT-PCR test within 72 hours before entering the State. Mr. Ashraf, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, moved the apex court after the Kerala High Court refused to intervene on September 28. He had also sought an ex parte stay of the High Court order. He said, “Grave miscarriage of justice has been caused to him and to other similarly placed persons, who have to commute daily or for essential medical or other needs to Dakshin Kannada district in the State of Karnataka from Kerala and/or Maharashtra, on account of erroneous dismissal of the writ petition by the High Court.” The petition said the residents of Manjeshwaram constituency were dependent on Dakshina Kannada districts/Mangaluru city for their basic needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-order-on-travellers-from-kerala-challenged-in-sc/article36815756.ece
04 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accidents in Prakasam reduced by 50%, says SP||A special drive launched by the Prakasam Police to check road accidents in September has paid dividends as the district has recorded a 50% reduction in the number of fatal mishaps following education, engineering and law enforcement (3Es) measures taken during the drives on Saturdays, Superintendent of Police Malika Garg has said. The steps taken included ‘Stop, Wash, Go’ programme in the wee hours. Deployment of police personnel at black spots and filling of potholes have also yielded positive results. The district recorded only 108 road accidents, including 28 fatal ones in September that left 29 dead and 133 injured. This was in contrast to the monthly average of 126 mishaps, including 53 fatal ones with 53 deaths and 143 people sustaining injuries in the first eight months of this year, the SP explained. As a part of the ‘No Accident Day’ drive, the police imposed fines on motorists for violations of safety norms including not wearing seat belts, over-speeding, triple riding, minor driving, overloading, drunk driving and overcrowding of autorickshaws. The number of monthly traffic e-challans issued went up from 12,776 on an average in the first eight months to 39,813 in September only, she said. Black spots identified “As many as 55 black spots have been identified in the district so far and mapped. Interventions such as speed breakers and sign boards, solar blinkers, radium stickers and etc. undertaken to caution the road users about the danger ahead,” the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accidents-in-prakasam-reduced-by-50-says-sp/article36815815.ece
04 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow FDI in tobacco sector: dealers||The Tobacco Dealers Association has urged the Centre to allow foreign direct investment(FDI) and also contract farming in the tobacco sector to create market buoyancy for flue-cured tobacco. Members of the association who met here on Sunday to suggest ways to the Union Commerce Ministry to step up export of tobacco felt that there was no rhyme or reason to deny FDI in tobacco sector when the Centre invited multi-national companies as part of ‘Make in India’ campaign to invest even in the strategic defence sector. The Centre should also encourage contract farming by major global cigarette manufacturers so that the country was seen as a definite market for tobacco. The nation, at present, is seen only as an ‘opportunity market’ and this had led to farmers not getting a fair price for their produce, Indian Tobacco Association vice-president P.Venkatesan said while briefing newsmen on the day-long proceedings at the ITA convention hall. A major global player, with a major share in tobacco trade in over 180 countries, had expressed keenness to do contract farming. But for various reasons the proposal had not fructified, he recalled, adding the Centre should rope in the Swiss-American multinational cigarette and tobacco manufacturing company to enter into agreement with the farmers for contract farming. Demand for minimum guaranteed price A major dealer in tobacco, Ch.Ravi Babu, urged the Tobacco Board to announce a minimum guaranteed price(MGP) for various grades of tobacco for the farmers to take a well-informed decision whether to grow the produce or not in a particular year. When the market price ruled over and above the MGP, the farmers should be allowed to sell the produce to a dealer after paying cess on the lines of the Rythu Bharaso Kendram practice in the State. The farmers had been turned into ‘captive growers’ meeting the demands of a select few cigarette manufacturers and exporters with a majority of over 600 dealers winding up their businesses due to alleged “anti-dealer” policies of the Tobacco Board, the dealers said and pressed for liberalising industrial licensing policy. “The government should allow more players to manufacture cigarettes or ban manufacturing altogether,” they said, adding they should be allowed to purchase ‘crossed and no bid bales’ after paying cess to the crop regulator. No Goods and Services Tax should be imposed at the dealer level, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-fdi-in-tobacco-sector-dealers/article36815816.ece
04 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for sexual assault on minor girls||The Prakasam police have arrested two men for sexual assault on minor girls in separate incidents in Markapur division. A 46-year-old man, Sk. Mastan Vali was arrested late on Saturday by Markapur police for allegedly raping his minor daughter on September 25 and storing obscene pictures of the victim in his mobile phone. The accused was booked under various IPC sections as also the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Information Technology Act. In another case, a 35-year-old man was nabbed late on Saturday for alleged sexual assault on a girl at Nallaguntla village, near Kumarole. Within 24 hours of lodging of complaint by the mother of the victim, the accused, Manda Israel, was nabbed by Kumarole police late on Saturday, Markapur Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Kishore Kumar told the media on Sunday. Police booked a case under the POCSO Act and under various IPC sections against the accused. Preliminary investigation revealed that he had also attempted sexual assault on another girl after luring her by offering chocolates. However, she escaped with injuries, the DSP said. Investigation would be completed in both cases swiftly and chargesheet would be filed early in the courts concerned, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girls/article36815810.ece
04 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six held in land scam worth Rs. 500 crore||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) unearthed a major land scam worth around Rs. 500 crore by arresting six persons, including the kingpin, who had allegedly alienated 2,320 acres of government land. The scam had come to light after Somala mandal tahsildar A. Syamprasad Reddy had lodged a complaint on May 29, 2020, against three persons – Rajan, Dharani and Madhusudhan, accusing them of obtaining pattadar passbooks by manipulating revenue documents, both physically and online. Chittoor Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar transferred the case to the CID, and asked its Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Ravikumar to expedite the investigation. Tracing the case to a similar one that had surfaced in 2017 at Peddapanjani, where the accused trio was the same, Mr. Ravikumar found the involvement of M. Ganesh Pillai (72), who had served as karanam of 184 Gollapalle village of Yadamari mandal during 1977-1984. Ganesh Pillai had subsequently joined the government service as a Village Administrative Officer in 1992, following the abolition of the Karanam system, and retired from service in 2010. He had allegedly misused his knowledge and experience of land records and tried to alienate 2,320 acres of land under 93 survey numbers in 13 mandals of Chittoor district between 2005 and 2010, the CID officials said. Mr. Ravikumar said that it was Ganesh Pillai who got the 2,320 acres of alienated land worth Rs. 500 crore registered in the name of his children M.G. Madhusudhan, M.G. Rajan, V. Komala and K. Dharani, who had been named co-accused in the case. Adavi Ramana (61), having a criminal background and who is also accused of complicity in Ganesh Pillai’s forgery attempt, was also nabbed. The CID will present the accused before the court soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-held-in-land-scam-worth-rs-500-crore/article36816291.ece
04 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search for tiger T23 continues||Two kumki elephants were brought again from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp for the operation to locate tiger T23 in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Sunday. Srinivas and Udayan, which were brought to the “operation area” on special trucks, will help in the attempts to locate the tiger and allow veterinarians a safe platform from which they can dart the animal, officials said. Six more kumkis are standing by to join the operation. More logistics support came in from the neighbouring forest divisions in Kerala and Karnataka on Sunday, with the latter also despatching a trained sniffer dog. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj, who has been camping at the MTR for the last few days, is at the forefront of the operation, which entered the eighth day. The Forest Department is also tapping into the expertise of conservationists. Sources said the tiger was yet to be sighted or captured in camera traps since Saturday. On Sunday evening, a resident of a village told Forest Department officials that she had heard the animal growl from a nearby abandoned quarry. But the tiger remained undetected. Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, Deputy Director of the MTR (core area), said the tiger was not spotted on Sunday, and the search area had been expanded to Masinagudi and Singara. He said camera traps placed around the search area would be combed for images of the tiger to understand its movement. The operation will continue on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/search-for-tiger-t23-continues/article36815880.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Price of diesel breaches Rs. 100||The price of a litre of diesel breached the Rs. 100 mark in several cities and towns in the State on Sunday following the recent increase in the fuel prices across the country. The price of a litre of petrol is more than Rs. 108 in most parts of the State. “The price of diesel has not touched Rs. 100 in any other State,” according to data sourced from Indian Oil Corporation’s website. The per-litre price of diesel in Guntur is Rs. 100.59. It is Rs. 100.30 in Vijayawada and Rs. 99.45 in Visakhapatnam. The price of petrol in the three cities are as follows: Rs. 108.63 (Guntur), Rs. 108.29 (Vijayawada), and Rs. 107.44 (Visakhapatnam). As of Sunday, the prices of diesel and petrol in Hyderabad were Rs. 99.04 and Rs. 106.51 respectively. In Chennai, while the cost of petrol was Rs. 100, the price of diesel was Rs. 95.3. “The taxes levied on petrol and diesel by the State government were Rs. 28.49 and Rs. 21.78 respectively as of July this year, and they had increased from Rs. 20.91 and Rs. 16.30 in July 2020,” the Centre had said in reply to a question posed on the ‘Impact of rising fuel prices’ in the Lok Sabha in July. “Andhra Pradesh levies the highest tax on diesel in the country and the third highest on petrol after Maharashtra and Rajasthan,” the Centre had said. In one year, the taxes levied on petrol and diesel increased by Rs. 7.59 and Rs. 5.48 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/price-of-diesel-breaches-rs-100/article36815878.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cycle rally, walk mark ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’||A large number of people including children and senior citizens took part in the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations organised by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) on the M.G. Road on Sunday. Apart from the cycle rally on M.G.Road and Eluru Road, and walk for people aged between seven and 75 early in the morning, competitions in drawing, scrap art, clay art and rangoli were conducted for children. The cycle rally began at the Benz Circle and passed through Ramavarappadu Ring Road, BRTS Road, Police Control Room Junction and ended at the IGMC Stadium. The walk started at the Police Control Room and ended at the IGMC Stadium. Participants were given away certificates. Special Chief Secretary to government (revenue) Rajat Bhargav, Krishna district Collector J. Nivas, Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh among others took part in the celebrations. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Bhargav appreciated all the participants for taking part in the programme in commemoration of the celebration of the 75 years of independence of the country. Mr. Prasanna Venkatesh presented awards to the winners in competitions for children. In the four categories, first prize winners were given Rs. 3,000 cash prize each and second prize winners were given Rs. 2,000 each. Third prize winners were given Rs. 1,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cycle-rally-walk-mark-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav/article36816363.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan should take up Polavaram funds issue with PM, says Uma||TDP leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao on Sunday accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of not doing enough to ensure early completion of the Polavaram project. Addressing the media, Mr. Rao, who was former Irrigation Minister, said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should personally meet the Prime Minister and the Union Ministers and seek immediate release of funds for early completion of the irrigation project. “Instead of doing that, he is entrusting the task to the irrigation officials,” Mr. Rao said.  Accusing the government of neglecting the project’s progress, Mr. Rao said the Chief Minister had reviewed the project after a gap of nearly three months on October 1, and the government was silent on the implementation of the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package for the evacuees. “The YSRCP government had promised to supply water from Polavaram to farmers from June this year. Now, it has postponed it to kharif next,” he pointed out. ‘Promises not fulfilled’ “Many oustees, most of them adivasis, are staring at a bleak future due to the government’s apathy. The promise of handing over houses to the 18,000 project-displaced families by June 2020 has not yet materialised. No effort is being made to fulfil the promise,” Mr. Rao alleged. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during his padayatra, had promised to pay the evacuees Rs. 10 lakh per acre towards compensation and implement the Land Acquisition Act of 2013. He had also promised to pay Rs. 5 lakh per acre to those who had already parted with their lands for the project, Mr. Rao said, and alleged that None of the promises had been fulfilled.  Mr. Rao said the government should explain who had benefited from the Rs. 550-crore R&R package paid under the Polavaram resettlement plan. Alleging injustice to the evacuees, Mr. Rao said his party leader N. Lokesh had written two letters to the government after visiting the affected areas and interacting with the displaced people. But there was no positive response from the government, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-should-take-up-polavaram-funds-issue-with-pm-says-uma/article36816287.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 161, daily case tally highest in Chittoor||The State reported nine more deaths due to COVID-19 and 765 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The daily positivity rate of 45,481 samples tested was 1.68%. The daily positivity rate was less than 2% for the past week during which period a total of 3.51 lakh tests had been conducted. At 1.68%, the weekly positivity rate was the lowest since March this year. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,52,763 and 14,204. The number of active cases came down to 10,357 as 973 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and the recovery rate stood at 20,28,202 and 98.80%. Guntur and Krishna districts reported two deaths each in the past day, followed by Chittoor, East Godavari, Kurnool, Nellore and Visakhapatnam (one each). Chittoor reported 161 infections. It was the only district to report more than one hundred cases. It was followed by East Godavari (94), Guntur (91), Nellore (91), West Godavari (90), Prakasam (72), Krishna (70), Kadapa (47), Visakhapatnam (22), Srikakulam (14), Vizianagaram (9), Kurnool (3) and Anantapur (1). The over district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,91,738), Chittoor (2,44,408), West Godavari (1,78,011), Guntur (1,76,261), Anantapur (1,57,619), Visakhapatnam (1,56,743), Nellore (1,45,231), Prakasam (1,37,534), Kurnool (1,24,025), Srikakulam (1,22,737), Krishna (1,17,674), Kadapa (1,15,100) and Vizianagaram (82,787).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/at-161-daily-case-tally-highest-in-chittoor/article36816288.ece
04 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||51 vehicles seized||Police identified four law and order suspects and two rowdy-sheeters during a cordon and search operation in the city on Sunday. They seized 51 vehicles which did not possess any documents, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. About 10 teams checked more than 1,300 houses in Kesarapalli, Vambay Colony, Srinivas Nagar Katta and Kurmaiah Vantena and verified the movements of suspects. The operation was taken up to keep a vigil on criminals and maintain law and order in the Vijayawada Commissionerate limits, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/51-vehicles-seized/article36816361.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||As COVID-19 curbs ease, ganja smuggling goes up||Going by the recent ganja seizures by various enforcement authorities, it appears that the ganja smuggling activity is on the rise in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. The quantity seized so far this year is nearly double that of last year. According to the statistics, rural police registered 252 cases where in about 42,337 kg of ganja was seized and 530 persons were arrested in 2020, whereas till September first week this year, about 250 cases were registered, 73,862 kg of ganja was seized and 825 were arrested. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials booked 51 cases and seized 11,159 kg ganja this year as against 10 cases and 14,360 kg in 2020. They have also arrested 113 persons in this regard. In August alone, the SEB seized about 4,179 kg ganja in about 30 cases. Vigil Police as well as the SEB officials attribute the increase in ganja seizures to increased surveillance. The highest seizure for the district police this year was about 2,700 kg at Koyyuru mandal on August 29, which was worth around Rs. 2.7 crore in the upcountry market. About 2,520 kg ganja was seized at Paderu on August 30. V. Madugula police recovered 2,200 kg ganja on August 6. Similarly, city police seized over 3,000 kg at Sabbavaram and Parawada police limits this year. “With things getting back to normalcy after the second wave of COVID-19 in most of the States, the smugglers have stepped up their business. After a gap, the demand for ganja may have increased prompting smugglers to source huge quantities from the Agency,” said a senior officer from the Excise Department. 410 kg seized on Sunday The Task Force Wing of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting about 410 kg of ganja in a van near Yetigyrammapeta village under Golugonda police station limits, in Visakhapatnam district, late on Saturday night. Sources said the Task Force team intercepted the vehicle in which the accused was allegedly transporting 410 ganja in gunny bags. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth Rs. 40 lakh in the black market. Two more accused in the case are yet to be nabbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-covid-19-curbs-ease-ganja-smuggling-goes-up/article36816377.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA to continue fight against ‘mixopathy’, quackery||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will continue its mission against quackery, ‘mixopathy’ and ‘crosspathy’, introduced by the Government of India through its retrograde health policies, Dr. J.A. Jayalal, IMA national president, and Dr. Jayesh M. Lele, honorary secretary general, said. The IMA leaders were in the city as part of their country-wide tour in their fight against retrograde policies like NMC, NEP and CPA, which they said were making it difficult for doctors to run hospitals. “We are not against other systems of medicine like Ayurveda and Homoeopathy, but, it is unfair to allow doctors practising other systems to prescribe Allopathic drugs or perform surgeries. They being allowed to do so after brief training is sometimes resulting in adverse reactions and death of patients,” the IMA leaders told a press conference here on Sunday. Replying to a query, Dr. Jayalal said that the IMA had filed a case in the Supreme Court but the later had kept it in abeyance. Refuting the statements of the government that doctors were not willing to serve in rural areas, he said that the IMA had already clarified that doctors were not averse to working in rural and tribal areas, provided they were given basic infrastructure, better amenities and adequate remuneration. Dr. N. Subrahmanyam, president, AP State branch of IMA, said that over 1,000 doctors all over the country lost their lives to COVID-19. It was unfortunate that the Rs. 50 lakh compensation, announced under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for health workers, was yet to be provided to their families. There were some cases, in which both husband and wife were doctors and succumbed to the virus and their children were left to fend for themselves. The financial assistance was being rendered through insurance companies and a vast majority of the families were yet to get the insurance amount. The IMA has provided Rs. 10 lakh as relief to about 30 families of poor doctors from its funds, they said. Replying to another query, Dr. Jayalal said that the IMA does not support the concept of booster dose vaccines. The focus should be on covering those who have not received the first and second doses. Contrary to apprehensions, mutation of the delta variant was not seen much in our country, so far. While the threat of the third wave cannot be ruled out, we feel that vaccination of 90 crore people in the country could have helped in checking the third wave, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-to-continue-fight-against-mixopathy/article36816366.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unauthorised stickers to invite Rs. 535 fine||After conducting a special drive against the use of unauthorised stickers on vehicles for over 20 days, the city traffic police have announced on Sunday that they will now begin levying fines of Rs. 535 on motorists for such violations. Police have so far counselled and created awareness among hundreds of motorists against the use of unauthorised stickers such as ‘Press’, ‘Police’, ‘MLA’ or ‘MP’. The city police had initiated a special drive on September 10 against six traffic violations — usage of unauthorised stickers, fancy licence plates, driving on high-beam, overloading of autorickshaws, use of tinted glass in cars, installing loud horns/loudspeakers and use of high-pitch sounds by street vendors. Over 30 traffic police teams have been conducting checks at various locations in the city. According to figures given by the city traffic police, between September 10 and October 2, they came across 1,209 cases of people using unauthorised stickers. Among them, as many as 378 motorists were found using 'Police' sticker, 451 using ‘Press’, 129 using ‘MLA’ and 136 using ‘Defence’ stickers. “Throughout the drive, we counselled the people and removed the stickers on the spot. From now, we will impose a fine of Rs. 535. People should not use these stickers unauthorisedly,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said. Cases Police have detected 36,460 traffic violation cases through the special drive since September 10. Among them, 75% of cases — 27,567 cases — were registered against motorists using fancy number plates. Similarly, 2,714 four-wheeler users were caught using tinted windows and 2,013 people using high-beam lights. For these three violations, the traffic police imposed e-challans of Rs. 1,035. Police also caught 708 vehicles using loud horns. As many as 2,235 auto-rickshaw drivers were fined for overloading. The city police have imposed fines of Rs. 100 for each additional passenger on the errant auto-rickshaw drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unauthorised-stickers-to-invite-rs-535-fine/article36816369.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Want freedom of education in Taliban regime, say Afghanistan students||At a time when their future looks uncertain, they have not lost their identity and resolve and say that they are proud Afghanis first and their ethnicity and others things follow later. “We want the people across the globe to recognise us as people from Afghanistan and not be identified as Tajiks, Uzbeks or Pashtoons. We oppose what the Taliban is trying to do by discriminating us by our ethnic origin,” says Abeedullah Aabedi, who is pursuing his PG in law at Andhra University. He hails from Nuristan province of Afghanistan and like him there are about 130 students from different parts of the strife-torn nation, including about 25 women, on the campus pursuing different courses. Among numerous worries, one factor that is bothering them is education. In the last two decades, the education system of Afghanistan has seen a sea change, with even women taking up higher education. “We want the present freedom in education to continue. We want our women to be educated. And we want modern education and not ‘Talibanistic’ education,” say the students. Talking about the present Taliban government, Sami, who is pursuing his MSc in mathematics, says, “The world has not yet recognised the government. But if it is recognised, then we will also accept it. But the government should not curtail our freedom.” A big worry for the students is whether the government will be recognised and whether their passport will be a valid document. “We are hopeful that India, which has always been a friend to Afghanistan, will do something about it. Right now we request the government to extend our visas and allow us to continue our further studies with funding for survival,” says Abeedullah. IS worry They are wary about the influence of IS and whether the Taliban will convert the country into such a caliphate State. “We want our country to be recognised as a Muslim country but not an IS-like state. There are many Muslim countries such as UAE, Malaysia, Bahrain and Oman where there is freedom for people. They are modern countries with modern education,” says Jamaluddin, who hails from Laghman province and is pursuing his BBA. “We want to live just like the people who live in other Muslim countries,” says Abeedullah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/want-freedom-of-education-in-taliban-regime-say-afghanistan-students/article36816283.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bangla vessel arrives to mark Indo-Pak war 50th anniversary||Bangladesh Naval Ship (BNS) Somudra Avijan arrived in Visakhapatnam on a five-day visit of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) on Sunday. The visit by the Bangladesh Navy is to commemorate the birth centenary of Father of the Nation (Bangladesh) Bandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as well as Swarnim Vijay Varsh, marking the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, which led to liberation of Bangladesh. Officers and crew of BNS Somudra Avijan were accorded a traditional welcome by representatives of the ENC and the Eastern Fleet, with the Navy Band in attendance. A series of activities are scheduled between the two navies, including professional interactions, cross deck visits, and visits to INS Vishwakarma and INS Dega. In addition, screening of a special documentary on the Bangladesh Navy and interactions with 1971 war veterans would be the major highlights of the visit, according to a statement issued by the Navy. At the apex level, the visiting delegation from the High Commission of Bangladesh, New Delhi, led by Muhammad Imran, High Commissioner of Bangladesh, accompanied by Resident Defence Attache Bangladesh and the Commanding Officer of BNS Somudra Avijan, would interact with Vice-Admiral A.B. Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, and Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet, during the official calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bangla-vessel-arrives-to-mark-indo-pak-war-50th-anniversary/article36815882.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. is mortgaging public assets: BJP leader||Former MLA and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader P. Vishnu Kumar Raju on Sunday accused the State government of mortgaging several government properties and buildings located in prime areas of the city. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that people gave 151 seats to the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP). “But after coming to power, the YSRCP has started mortagaging land in prime land areas to raise loans. Before giving loans, the bank authorities should also think how the government, which is unable to generate revenue, can possibly clear the loans,” he said. The mortagaging of prime lands would not help in employment generation but push the State into debt, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said. The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has received over 20,000 objections from citizens regarding the Master Plan, 2041, but the VMRDA announced that all issues have been sorted out and that it is finalising the plan. How can it be finalised without making it public?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-is-mortgaging-public-assets-bjp-leader/article36816370.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Go after kingpins, SP instructs personnel||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said that police officials should doggedly pursue ganja smuggling cases after arresting the accused and registering an FIR. They should put efforts to trace the kingpins and others who play a key role in the illegal activity and use high-end technology to trace smugglers and catch the links in the cases. Cases should also be booked against the owners of the vehicles caught transporting ganja. The SP reviewed the ganja smuggling cases registered in the district since 2020, here on Thursday. Ganja smugglers should not be allowed to get bail quickly, for which the police should coordinate with the Public Prosecutor and file a chargesheet based on their suggestions, he said, and instructed them to focus on those giving surety for ganja smugglers to get bail. Mr. Krishna Rao also asked the staff to confirm if the accused were previous offenders by using CCTNS software. ASP (SEB) S. Satish Kumar, ASP (Crime) B. Lakshmi Narayana, ASP, Chintapalle, D. Tushar, ASP, Paderu, P. Jagadish, ASP, Narsipatnam, Ch. Manikanta, DSP, Anakapalle, K. Sravani and inspectors of police stations were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-after-kingpins-sp-instructs-personnel/article36816378.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Film industry can blossom with govt. help’||Andhra Pradesh, home to some breathtaking locations, has bright chances of becoming a hub for film production if there is support from the State government, said Film and Television Promotion Council of Andhra Pradesh (FTPC) secretary Pakalapati V.S. Varma and president Chaitanya Janga. Post-bifurcation of the State, the need to develop the film industry in A.P. was felt. The State government should allot land to set up dubbing and editing studios apart from providing house sites to film artistes at concessional rates to attract them to the State, they said at a press conference here on Sunday. Mr. Varma said that a ‘Film Nagar’ on the lines of the one in Hyderabad could be developed in Vizag and proactive measures being taken by the State government would help in developing a parallel film industry in Vizag, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-industry-can-blossom-with-govt-help/article36816368.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District has 819 active cases||The district recorded 22 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending on Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,251. The death toll rose to 1,089 after one more person succumbed to the virus. This was the first COVID-19 death reported after September 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-has-819-active-cases/article36816371.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister stops convoy to help injured man||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Sunday helped an accident victim at Sabbavaram on Sunday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao was going to Aripaka village in Sabbavaram mandal when he saw an elderly man injured on the road after being hit by a vehicle. The Minister and arranged for the elderly man, identified as B. Ramu of Chodavaram, to be rushed to KGH in one of the vehicles of his convoy. The condition of Mr. Ramu is said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-stops-convoy-to-help-injured-man/article36816373.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fancy dress competition held by zoo||As many as 25 children, aged between four and 17 years, dressed up as tigers, lions, giraffes and other wild animals, and enthusiastically participated in a fancy dress competition organised by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), on the occasion of Wildlife Week celebrations here in the city on Sunday. The theme of the competition was ‘Animals of IGZP’. Students spoke about their favourite animals. IGZP curator Nandani Salaria said that IGZP was conducting a Wildlife Run on October 7 for all age groups, with a registration fee of Rs. 250. Every registered participant will get a T-shirt, cap and participation certificate, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fancy-dress-competition-held-by-zoo/article36816372.ece
04 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth dies in road accident||A youth, aged around 25 years, was killed in a road accident near VUDA Park on Sunday. According to sources in the police department, the youth had allegedly rammed into a car and received severe head injuries. It was learnt that the youth died while he was being shifted to hospital. III Town police have registered a case. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-dies-in-road-accident/article36816374.ece
04 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Regular checks of fire fighting equipment a must, says official||District Fire Officer J. Mohana Rao has asked the hospitals, hotels and educational institutions to get the fire fighting equipment installed on their respective premises periodically, saying that maintenance of the equipment is more important than installation. “Proper maintenance of the equipment ensures protection of lives and valuable property in cases of fire accidents,” said Mr. Mohana Rao after inspecting the several hotels and colleges. He said a few equipment such as fire extinguishers, smoke detectors, fire sprinklers, hydrants, fire safety pipeline were found defunct at several facilities owing to lack of maintenance. There are 33 private hospitals and 446 educational institutions in the district. However, one hotel among the inspected facilities was found to have obtained the No Objection Certificate and the mandatory licence from the Fire Department as per the safety precautions and guidelines, he said. Renewal of licence “The government has recently allowed many institutions to renew fire licence once in two years. Earlier, the licence was valid for one year. The institutions needed to check their equipment and put them in good condition before submission of applications to the Fire Department for annual renewal,” he said. Mr. Mohana Rao said that all the officials of the nine fire stations in the district had been strictly instructed to create awareness about the importance of repairs, regular maintenance and periodical checkup of the equipment installed on their premises. “In the backdrop of deadly fire accidents in the COVID-19 wards of several hospitals, we are giving a top priority to the safety of patients and medical staff. We have advised the government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) to install fire fighting equipment at the earliest,” said Mr. Mohana Rao. “With the schools and colleges resuming classes across the district, the managements need to check the condition of the equipment as they might not have been tested for the last two years due to the closure of educational institutions in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/regular-checks-of-fire-fighting-equipment-a-must-says-official/article36816318.ece
04 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Issue foolproof guidelines for assessing teachers’ seniority’||Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes and Tribes Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Sunday asked the State government to issue foolproof guidelines for assessing the seniority of teachers before finalising their promotions. The association sent a detailed note to the AP State Education Department Director V. China Veerabhadrudu to direct the Regional Joint Directors and District Educational Officers to take extra precautions to prevent injustice to some teachers. ‘Lot of confusion’ In a press release, Mr. Simhachalam said that there was confusion in assessment of seniority since many headmasters were taking up several responsibilities and some of them were zonal posts. The association leaders would meet the DEOs of the respective districts to explain the grievances of the teachers and headmasters who are in line to get promotions in a couple of months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issue-foolproof-guidelines-for-assessing-teachers-seniority/article36816320.ece
04 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 selected for State rugby contest||Fifty youngsters, including girls, were selected for rugby competitions to be held in East Godavari from October 11 to 13, according to Vizianagaram Rugby Association secretary M. Mahesh. The youngsters enthusiastically participated in the selection process held here on Sunday. Vizianagaram Olympic Association president Gurana Ayyalu, secretary Ch. Venugopala Rao and Rugby Association president Ramesh examined the talent of the players and finalised the list of probable candidates for the State-level competition. They said that rugby had become popular among children since it would ensure physical and mental strength apart from happiness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-selected-for-state-rugby-contest/article36815817.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam opts out of Badvel bypoll, BJP in the fray||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu said in a press release that it has been unanimously agreed in the Polit Bureau meeting that the party should not field a candidate because the spouse of the deceased MLA is in the fray. He said it was the TDP which had started the tradition of not putting up candidates in the byelections caused by the death of sitting MLAs. The JSP took a similar stand while the BJP stated that it was against hereditary politics. Hereditary politics BJP State president Somu Veerraju told media persons in Kadapa, after holding parleys with Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh, former Minister C. Adinarayana Reddy, district president K. Yella Reddy and district in-charge Ankala Reddy among others, that the party would remain in the fray and a candidate would be named in a day or two. The BJP is against hereditary politics, he said, adding it had even fought against the Nehru family. The BJP had initially offered the seat to the Jana Sena but Pawan Kalyan had chosen to stay out of the fray. The JSP’s decision, on grounds of impropriety, had put the BJP in a fix but finally the party has decided to take the plunge. Mr. Veerraju is learnt to have received applications from four aspirants for the seat. Kadapa district general secretary Lakshminarayana Reddy and city secretary G.S.T. Lakshman Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-opts-out-of-badvel-bypoll-bjp-in-the-fray/article36816285.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating the blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beating-the-blues/article36816376.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief at last!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-at-last/article36816365.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepping up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepping-up/article36816293.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Frail and vulnerable, elderly continue to battle neglect||When Sasikala K., a former professor of English at a private institution, fractured her leg in February this year — her second such injury in four years — little did she expect that it would leave a permanent emotional scar. “I returned home on a stretcher after treatment and my husband asked me to move out. He refused to give me money for medicine or anything else. I understood recovery would not be possible unless I moved out,” recalls the 58-year-old, sitting among senior citizens at an elder care Centre run by RK’s Mother Teresa Foundation in Karkhana here. Old, frail and dependent on others for their daily needs, senior citizens are a highly vulnerable group. Their vulnerability is not only restricted to health needs, but also includes being subjected to harassment, abuse, and abandonment — often at the hands of their own family members. Bearing testimony to this fact is the number of calls received on ‘14567’, the national helpline number for senior citizens. In the past one year, as many as 27,103 calls have been attended on the number, says B. Shailaja, director of department of Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens. The helpline began as a pilot project in Telangana as an initiative of the government along with Tata Trusts in 2017, and is now operational in other States too. Calls are attended from 8 a.m. till 8 p.m. every day. The department staff manage the distress calls and rescue those in need of help. Ms. Sasikala was one of them. After speaking to her husband, Field Response Officer N. Siddhartha shifted her to the elder care centre in April this year. Project manager of the ‘elder line’ in the State, T. Rajesh says the government has been exclusively running the helpline since October 2020. Most callers seek help with medical support, information about hospitals, emotional support, to report abuse, harassment, and ways to avail government’s pension schemes. Senior citizens wishing to reclaim their property when their children or other family members stopped taking care of them, and those seeking information about old age homes or daycare activity centre for the aged also dialled the helpline number. “Then there were some callers who wanted information on caregivers since their parents were in need of medical attention at home, or because they had to go to work, leaving an elderly family member behind,” says Amulya P, team leader the elder helpline centre located in Yousufguda. But not everybody in distress are in a situation to call or be aware of the helpline. Many who suffer from mental illnesses silently suffer, often abandoned on the streets. However, there have been instances of passersby dialling 14567 to arrange help for such people, says K. Ravi Kumar, administration lead at the helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/frail-and-vulnerable-elderly-continue-to-battle-neglect/article36816110.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay challenges KCR to quit if TRS loses Huzurabad||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has challenged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to resign if the TRS lost the Huzurabad Assembly byelection and warned that people of the constituency will quietly vote for the BJP. “It will not be possible for anyone to stop the victory of BJP,” he said after formally launching the election campaign of the party at a workers’ meeting in Huzurabad on Sunday evening. He alleged that the TRS was distributing Rs. 10,000 to every voter. But, the awareness levels among voters was high. They will accept whatever money was offered but use their judgement to vote for candidates who were on the side of justice. The TRS candidate will forfeit his deposit, he said. Mr. Sanjay asked workers to visit every voter though they were offered Rs. 10,000. The BJP will contest the polls with a democratic spirit as in Dubbak Assembly and GHMC elections. KCR had addressed a public meeting in the constituency last month after he understood that the people had made up their mind to vote for the BJP. He announced unconditional release of Rs. 10 lakh to beneficiaries of Dalit Bandhu but now the scheme was implemented with conditions. The bank authorities froze the money deposited in the accounts of beneficiaries. The officials were at risk of losing jobs as they had no power to do so. Mr. Rao will shelve the scheme after elections, he added. The government sent out false messages to the phones of beneficiaries that the money was released to their accounts and they were at liberty to spend on their chosen trades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-challenges-kcr-to-resign-if-trs-loses/article36816120.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders call on students injured in protest on joblessness||Congress leaders led by its president Revanth Reddy warned the government that the bugle has been sounded by students and youngsters to oust the TRS government and physical attacks by the police will not prevent them to take the agitation forward. Mr. Revanth Reddy along with former Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha, Shabbir Ali, Balaram Naik, Mallu Ravi and Geddam Prasad, on Sunday, called on the youngsters admitted in various hospitals for injuries after their clash with the police during the ‘Nirudyoga Jung Siren’ on Saturday. The leaders called on NSUI president Venkat Balmoori admitted in Supraja Hospital in Nagole, Amberpet leader Rajender, Mohan Naik and Amer Javed, also admitted in various hospitals. Mr. Revanth Reddy condemned the attacks on students and alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was deriving vicarious pleasure from it. Attacks for questioning the government have become common in Telangana and the government seem to believe that it can silence people with police terror. He said complaints would be lodged against the police officers involved in the attacks. He added that the participation of students and youngsters reflected how the party was ready to take on the government and assured that those who work for the party would be suitably rewarded. Later, the Congress leaders garlanded the statue of Srikanth Chary, who committed suicide for separate Telangana. TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi also called on those injured and accused the government of resorting to violence to silence people. But Congress will not be terrified with police suppression, the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leaders-call-on-students-injured-in-protest-on-joblessness/article36816127.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Padayatra a flop show’||Vice Chairman of Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar has alleged that State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar was trying to divert attention from the “poor response to his padayatra” by making sensational and false allegations against the government. At a press conference here on Sunday, he said that Mr. Sanjay had in fact become a brand ambassador for the government’s welfare programmes by constantly talking about them during his walkathon. He himself had seen the Green Telangana in his tour with canals flowing and tanks filled up due to the irrigation projects. “Telangana will survive three continuous years of drought given the increased water table and the availability of water for irrigation,” he said on Sunday. Mr. Vinod Kumar said that on the education front too, Telangana’s progress was being watched curiously by the country. Hundreds of residential schools started for SC, ST, BC and minority students with government spending Rs. 1.30 lakh on each student. Similarly, students going abroad for higher education are getting Rs. 20 lakh support that no other State gives, he said. The former MP said that BJP can never come to power in Telangana and their promises of implementing new schemes are laughable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-kumar-outbursts-to-divert-attention/article36816122.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nigerian arrested on drug peddling charge||A 33-year-old Nigerian national was arrested on charges of drug peddling with police seizing four grams of cocaine and a scooter from him. The accused, Daniel Ayotunde Olamide, is a resident of Friends Colony, Shaikpet, Tolichowki. Sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) team along with Punjagutta police apprehended Olamidel at a Banjara Hills mall. His associate, John Paul (37), also a native of Nigeria and a resident of Delhi, is absconding. DCP (Task Force) Chakravarthy Gummi said Olamide came to the city in 2014 on a student visa and was pursuing a degree from Vivekananda Degree College, Kukatpally. “He got addicted to drugs, and later came in contact with Paul, a drug peddler. They started drug supply in and around Hyderabad,” the officer said. Olamide was earlier arrested by Langer Houz police in a drug supply case and was sent to prison. After being released, he resumed drug supply with the help of Paul, charging customers Rs. 8,000 to and Rs. 10,000 per gram of cocaine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nigerian-arrested-on-drug-peddling-charge/article36816113.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youngster killed in road accident||A youngster riding pillion on a sports bike was killed, while his elder brother escaped with minor injuries in a road accident at Madhapur here on Tuesday evening. Madhapur police said the accident took place at 6.35 p.m. near the regional office of the National Investigation Agency. The victim, Chaitanya Varma, 22, along with his brother Ganesh Raju (bike rider), residents of Vivekananda Nagar of Borabanda, were travelling on their high-end sports bike from Parvathnagar towards NIA. The rider rammed a car near Vishnu Vistara homes while the driver was taking a u-turn. While Ganesh was wearing a helmet and escaped with minor injuries, Varma died on the spot as he was not wearing a helmet. The siblings are native of Maliki Puram village, Razole mandal in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. “It is a case of rash and negligent driving. They were not under the influence of alcohol, nor trying to avoid the drunk driving enforcement drive,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youngster-killed-in-road-accident/article36816114.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||162 new COVID cases logged||The State recorded only 162 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday with just 32,828 samples being put to test. Results of 886 persons were awaited. The new cases included 63 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 13 from Karimnagar, 11 from Rangareddy and 10 from Nalgonda. One more COVID patient died, taking the death toll to 3,921. The State’s total infection tally now stands at 6,66,546, of which 4,455 cases are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/162-new-covid-cases-logged/article36816111.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vikramarka condemns lathicharge||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has condemned the police lathicharge on students and Congress workers fighting for their rights in a democratic manner. In a statement here, Mr. Vikramarka said that the government cannot be autocratic in a democracy and policemen too were crossing their constitutional limits while dealing with such protests. “Police are suppressing the democratic rights of people. And indiscriminate house arrests of leaders including MPs and MLAs is highly objectionable,” he said. He added that if the government thinks it can suppress the agitations with police brutality, it was mistaken and reminded that these students fought for a separate Telangana State with dreams of better jobs and life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vikramarka-condemns-lathicharge/article36816125.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Contractor held for drowning of techie||Narsingi police of Cyberabad Commissionerate on Sunday arrested GHMC contractor and sub-contractor in connection with the death of a techie, who died after falling in a trench laid for storm water drain pipelines last month. The accused are contractor Narra Raj Kumar and sub-contractor Shivaratri Kumara Swamy. “They are responsible for the death of Rajinikanth (42) from Puppalaguda, who died on September 25,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contractor-held-for-drowning-of-techie/article36816118.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dattatreya’s ‘Alai Bhalai’ on October 17||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya will hold his annual post-Dussehra ‘Alai Bhalai’ programme of convergence of leaders of all parties on October 17 at Jala Vihar. The programme would be attended by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy respectively. The Alai Bhalai Celebrations Committee chairperson Bandaru Vijayalakshmi said that Haryana Chief Minister Manoharlal Khattar, Union Ministers Bhupender Yadav and G. Kishan Reddy and Governors of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Vishwabhushan Harichandan and Tamilisai Soundararajan will also participate apart from representatives of all political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dattatreyas-alai-bhalai-on-october-17/article36816123.ece
04 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||London Bathukamma on October 9||Telangana NRI Forum (TeNF) is planning the biggest ever Telangana Bathukamma (Floral Festival) celebrations ever seen outside of India on October 9 at the all-weather 3G Cranford Super Dome in London. TeNF Founder Chairman Venugopal Gampa said that over 4,000 people will attend the festival where Telangana culture would be presented to the world. This is the 11th year of celebrations that started during the peak of Telangana agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/london-bathukamma-on-october-9/article36816124.ece
04 October 2021||KALABURAGI,TELANGANA||Four youths drown in tank||Four youths drowned in a tank at Godawadi village of Humnabad taluk in Bidar district on Sunday. According to sources, the victims have been identified as Syed Junaid Syed Khaleed, 15, Mohammad Julaid Khan, 19, Mohammad Fahad Khan Saleem Khan, 18, and Syed Akbar Syed Usman, 17, residents of Borbanda locality in Hyderabad, Telangana. They came to the Ismail Shah Quadri Dargah and went for a swim in the tank nearby. Venturing into the tank, all the four suddenly disappeared below the surface. The Humnabad police and the Fire and Emergency Services team took up the rescue operation and and recovered the body of Syed Akbar. Efforts were on to trace the other three. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-drown-in-tank/article36815874.ece
04 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Protest on podu issue tomorrow||The CPI (M), the CPI and the CPI (ML-New Democracy) and the organisations affiliated to them are all geared up to stage ‘sadak bandh’ (road blockade) at multiple locations along a length of 400-km of highways and rural roads in predominantly tribal areas spanning around 16 districts of the State over podu farmers’ issues on October 5. The Podu Rythu Porata Committee, a State-level umbrella body of various political parties and farmers’ organisations, called for the sadak bandh to press for grant of pattas to all podu farmers as per the provisions of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act 2006. The committee has chalked out an action plan to organise a slew of rasta rokos at different locations on the highways/district and rural roads in two segments — Aswaraopet to Adilabad and Wanaparthy to Mattampally — from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday. The sadak bandh will be organised at select places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Warangal rural, Mulugu, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mancherial, Nirmal, Adilabad, Asifabad, Nagar Kurnool, Nalgonda, Suryapet, Wanaparthy, Nizamabad, and Kamareddy districts, a statement issued by the Podu Rythu Porata Committee said. The highest number of places finalised for sadak bandh are located in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district where the road blockade will be held at as many as 16 locations including the bridge centre in Bhadrachalam and Yellandu cross roads in Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-on-podu-issue-tomorrow/article36816324.ece
04 October 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Managements asked to stop ‘harassing’ journalists||Journalist union leaders urged managements of newspapers to stop harassing journalists working in rural areas in the name of targets. “The managements of newspaper organisations are pressurising journalists to meet advertisement targets. Journalists are forced to commit suicide,” said Virahat Ali, State secretary, Telangana Union of Working Journalists. Along with several journalists, Mr Ali came to Narsapur on Sunday and offered tributes to Praveen Kumar Goud, who died by jumping into a tank. He reportedly left a two-page suicide note in which he allegedly blamed harassment by newspaper management for the step.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: 04066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/managements-asked-to-stop-harassing-journalists/article36816321.ece
04 October 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||First community dialysis centre inaugurated at Pastapur||A community dialysis centre was inaugurated at Pastapur on Sunday. Dr. Rajiv Pal and Dr. Sanjay Maitra stressed on the need for creating an awareness on kidney related problems. They said that the Deccan Development Society (DDS), which has started the centre, can create awareness among rural masses. The programme was presided over by DDS director P.V. Satheesh. The facility will be open for public after obtaining all permissions. It will provide service to poor dialysis patents, who had to go all the way to Sangareddy or Hyderabad for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-community-dialysis-centre-inaugurated-at-pastapur/article36816129.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Poll heat is back in Telangana||With the schedule for Huzurabad Assembly byelection announced, it is time for leaders to hurl challenges and counter challenges at political rivals.  Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to accept his challenge to resign if the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) lost the Huzurabad polls. He also said the voters of Huzurabad were very sensible and will vote for party that stood by justice despite collecting money offered by the TRS. On the other hand, Congress MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy said he was game for anything if Energy Minister G. Jagdish Reddy won the next election. He also offered to resign if the Dalit Bandhu programme was implemented in Munugode constituency represented by him. Mr. Reddy said the next election was going to be the last for the Minister.   The ongoing monsoon session of the legislature has been adjourned for three days thanks to the copious rains that lashed the State under the impact of cyclonic storm Gulab. With the eight-day session terminated for three full days, questions are now being raised on whether the government/ruling party will take steps to compensate the loss. Though the legislature resumed the sitting on October 1, no indication was given on the extension of the session. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao the other day asserted his willingness to conduct the session to any number of days provided members take up meaningful debates. There was however, no indication about the lost days in his reply during the Question Hour or the short discussion. Hopefully, the business advisory committee will meet soon to take a decision on the session’s tenure.   Intense campaigning by political parties for the upcoming byelection to Huzurabad sparked off fears of upsurge of COVID pandemic yet again. The apprehensions are not unfounded given the reports of COVID surge after the Nagarjunasagar bypoll. Officials concerned are advising candidates as well as people to follow COVID appropriate behaviour besides making sure that health workers were posted in each polling booth as precautionary measure. Karimnagar Collector and DEO R.V. Karnan has asked senior officials to depute only such personnel who took their two doses of vaccine on duties for the bypoll. Other restrictions like stopping the campaign after 7 p.m. have also been put in place in the district.  (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poll-heat-is-back-in-telangana/article36816121.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||I reside at Golden Heights Colony, Upperpally, and am receiving excess electricity bill for past one year for my meter - 5414854, ERO - 322, USC - 102696185. From Rs. 1,500 a month earlier, it has jumped to Rs. 6,000- Rs. 8,000. I have complained several times to the department but no action had been taken yet. Fawad T., Rajendernagar   I have experienced the shock and anguish of calling ‘100’ and the call not going through. I have written to the Hyderabad police about this but not received any response. Why not make direct connect easier? Sandeep, Secunderabad  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article36816112.ece
04 October 2021||Bhopal,||Kamal Nath throws challenge at Chouhan to test fitness||Amid a “debate” over his health, Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath, 74, has challenged state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is 12 years younger than him, to run a race with him to see who is fitter. Mr. Nath’s fitness challenge comes in the wake of Mr. Chouhan, 62, repeatedly targetting him over his age and health, saying that he was resting in Delhi. “There is a lot of debate over my health. Shivraj ji is saying that Kamal Nath ji is sick and old. Shivra ji , I throw a challenge to you, come let us have a race,” Mr. Nath, who is also the leader of the opposition, said in a media statement. “I did go for my post COVID-19 check up because I had pneumonia, which anyone can have. I got all the tests done. All reports came out good,”he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kamal-nath-throws-challenge-at-chouhan-to-test-fitness/article36816206.ece
04 October 2021||Bhopal,||Wild monkey takes away towel containing Rs. 1 lakh from autorickshaw in M.P.||A wild monkey snatched a towel, in which Rs. 1 lakh cash was wrapped, from an autorickshaw that was stuck in a traffic jam on a narrow road in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Katav Ghat on the afternoon of September 30 when the owner of the cash was travelling in an autorickshaw along with two others, Majholi police station in-charge Sachin Singh said. Stuck in taffic jam “When the three came out of the vehicle to peer ahead and find out what was causing the traffic jam, a monkey took away a towel in which Rs. 1 lakh cash was wrapped. It shook the towel after climbing up a tree, spreading currency notes all around. The owner managed to collect Rs. 56,000, while the rest got lost,” he explained. He said it was not known who took the rest of the money, adding that no case was registered in connection with the incident as monkeys were involved. No CCTVs in area There are no CCTV cameras in the area either to ascertain facts for a probe, the official added.He said the people often feed monkeys in the area and many of the animals even enter vehicles. Singrampur police station in-charge Dharmendra Upadhyay said complainant Mohammad Ali, a resident of Katangi, had come there but was directed to Majholi police station.  The monkey shook the towel after climbing up a tree, spreading currency notes all around Sachin Singh Majholi police station in-charge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wild-monkey-takes-away-towel-containing-rs-1-lakh-from-autorickshaw-in-mp/article36816022.ece
04 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Rs. 445 cr. given to discoms to prevent jumbo deaths||The Odisha government has provided Rs. 445.75 crore to distribution companies to increase the ground clearance of electrical networks and replace bare conductors in elephant corridors and movement areas. The overhaul is aimed at preventing elephant deaths due to electrocution. According to the Energy department, 79,000 interposing poles have been erected and more than 2,300 circuit bare conductors replaced by covered ones. In a recent meeting with Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, the companies and the Forest Department have been asked to interact regularly to achieve zero casualty of elephants. Mr. Mohapatra also directed officials to involve the local community in elephant protection and come up with a scheme of rewarding the villagers, who would give information about illegal hooking for poaching wild animals. He laid emphasis on remaining extremely vigilant during the harvest season and undertaking regular joint patrolling to prevent illegal hooking in elephant corridors and movement areas. According to the Wildlife Society of Orissa (WSO), 862 elephants have lost their lives between April 2010 August 2021. “Inadequate patrolling and breakdown of supervision and monitoring by senior officers has made it easy for the poachers to wipe out Odisha’s magnificent elephants,” said Biswajit Mohanty, chief of the WSO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-445-cr-given-to-discoms-to-prevent-jumbo-deaths/article36816024.ece
04 October 2021||Dewas/Neemuch,||3 policemen suspended in Dewas||Three policemen were suspended on Sunday in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas district after an old video showing them celebrate the birthday of an alleged drug smuggler surfaced on social media and other online platforms, an official said. In the video, Jaikumar Sabnani alias Babu Sindhi, currently lodged in jail in a drug smuggling case, can be seen cutting a cake with a 12-bore gun in the presence of the three policemen, said Dewas ASP Manjeet Singh Chawala. The Superintendent of Police (SP) has suspended constables Sajan Singh, Arun Ahirwar and Sunil Rajoriya, while one constable, identified as Pankaj Kumawat (also seen in the video) was suspended earlier after he stopped coming to work in August this year following his transfer from Neemuch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-policemen-suspended-in-dewas/article36816211.ece
04 October 2021||Gurugram,||Waste management: Gurugram societies show the way||Omaxe Nile, a group housing society with 400-odd flats in Sector 49, Gurugram, generates around one tonne of solid waste, including 350 kg kitchen waste, every day. But unlike many other societies, residents here make sure that all of their waste is recycled and does not end up at Bandhwari landfill on the outskirts. It all began three years ago when Jagriti Jagat, an interpersonal skills trainer, who had practised waste segregation at her house for over a decade, and her educator friend Mandeep Bakshi, decided to turn this into a campaign, involving all residents of the gated community. The duo is helped by Tarun Lakhwani, a member of the residents’ welfare association (RWA). Besides the usual wet and dry waste, the residents segregate the hazardous and e-waste and hand it over to different agencies for recycling as per the norms. The wet waste is made into a compost. “Many agencies approached us offering to pay Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 per month in return for collecting our dry waste. But we found that these agencies took out a portion of the waste for recycling and dumped the rest at Bandhwari. So, we refused. The agency now hired for collecting the dry waste, though free of cost, ensures that it is all recycled and reused. What’s the point in putting in so much effort, if the waste eventually ends up at the landfill?” Ms. Jagat asks. Representatives of Ecogreen, the waste collection agency appointed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, also approached the society many times, but failed to meet its criteria. But the journey has not been easy. To being with, the trio, with support from the RWA, conducted training sessions in waste segregation for all domestic helps, went from door to door to explain the concept to the residents and the need to do it. Regular audits are now conducted to ensure that the directions on waste segregation are strictly adhered to. The society imposes fines ranging from Rs. 50 to Rs. 150 per day on those not falling in line. ‘Waste reduction’ Going beyond the routine waste management, the society now focuses on “waste reduction”. The residents are not allowed to use the liners (garbage bags) in the dustbins; the gardeners, security guards and the housekeeping staff have been provided jugs and glasses to minimise the use of disposables; and the shops in the society have been directed not to use polythene bags. “Disposables are not allowed at the community functions inside the society,” Ms. Jagat says. Meetings with residents and campaigns involving children are held regularly for constant motivation. But all this activism comes at a cost, says Ms. Bakshi. “People mock at you. You earn a bad name for constantly nagging them. It is a thankless job, but the passion continues to drive you,” she says. Ms. Jagat regrets how several group housing societies, the bulk waste generators, surrounding them are completely indifferent to waste segregation. “Creating awareness and motivation does not work for all. Enforcement by the authorities is all needed. But it is completely missing,” Ms. Jagat says. Residents of The Castle, another group housing society with 40-odd flats in Sector 56, were forced to turn to waste management during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The waste collection by Ecogreen became erratic during the lockdown and the piling of garbage inside the society led to foul smell and attracted rodents. Practice turns passion “We took up segregation of waste and composting to deal with the problem of growing waste in the society. But now it has become a passion for us. And no one is willing to go back to the earlier method of waste disposal,” says Lt. Col. (retd.) Rajan Prabhakar, the force behind the initiative. Mr. Prabhakar also involved the neighbouring housing society, Mariners Home, to make the project cost effective. “Being an Army man, I look for workable and not theoretical solutions. The simple and cost-effective solutions are sustainable, unlike the complicated methods. Instead of segregating the waste in four ways, we just segregate it as wet and dry,” says Mr. Prabhakar. For less than Rs. 2,000 per month, the society manages to make compost from the wet waste and hands over the dry waste to an agency for recycling. “We have stopped giving our waste to Ecogreen. It is a monthly saving of Rs. 1,500 levied by the agency towards collection charges,” says Mr. Prabhakar. Into the bargain, the society makes a few hundred bucks by selling the compost and the leachate. Though Mr. Prabhakar is all set to hand over the baton to new RWA by the end of the year, he hopes the new committee would continue with the waste segregation. “I believe people have adopted waste segregation. It is a cleaner and more responsible way of handling waste. Still, if the new RWA reverts to the old system, they will have to undo a lot of things done over the past one year. It will not be easy,” says Mr. Prabhakar. Spread across 37 acres with 1,500 flats and 37 villas, Orchid Petals, one of the largest group housing societies in the Millennium City, has been successfully practising waste segregation for more than four years now. Compositing plant “We generate around 1.5 tonnes of wet waste daily and have achieved 85% segregation at the source. With increase in waste generation over the years, we upgraded to better technologies for composting and set up our own organic compositing plant. We hand over our dry and hazardous waste to different agencies making sure that nothing lands up at Bandhwari,” says Sachin Gupta, a board member of the Orchid Petals Residents Association (OPRA). Rajiv Asthana, general secretary, OPRA, says the society took up waste segregation out of its concern for the environment, but there were challenges. “Being a big society, it took us almost six months to conduct training for the domestic helps, housekeeping staff, and residents before we could introduce waste segregation. We also incurred an additional monthly cost of around Rs. 1 lakh on account of hiring nearly half-a-dozen housekeeping staff, and also spent on procuring equipment and machines for composting,” Mr. Asthana says. The efforts of the society in waste management were also lauded by the district authorities at the Republic Day programme last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/waste-management-gurugram-societies-show-the-way/article36816011.ece
04 October 2021||Gurugram,||Haryana govt. extends lockdown by fortnight||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the COVID-19-induced lockdown in the State for another fortnight to continue the precautionary measures to contain the pandemic. Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said the lockdown would remain in place from October 4 to 18. Though the initial orders allowed the residential universities to conduct physical classes after following standard operating procedures, the government took a U-turn a few hours later and directed the universities to continue with the online classes till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-by-fortnight/article36816014.ece
04 October 2021||Kolkata,||Documenting the rich history of Durga Puja||Last weekend saw the publication of 50 illustrations by Kolkata artist Prabir Krishna Deb who, through those works of art, has sought to tell the story of the Durga Puja that’s held at his ancestral home. If you wonder what’s so extraordinary about his effort — considering that the city is home to a few thousand such celebrations, including those held by once-aristocratic families — it was his ancestor who began the festival of Durga Puja, making it a public event, in the newly-founded British city of Calcutta back in the eighteenth century. Until then, Durga Puja was largely a religious affair, confined mostly to the homes of zamindars; but the victory of the East India Company at the Battle of Plassey, in 1757, changed it all, deciding not only the future of modern India but also transforming Durga Puja into a major public event that it is today. That year, Naba Krishna Deb, who overnight became Calcutta’s wealthiest man and earned the title of ‘raja’ for having helped Robert Clive in the battle, decided to begin Durga Puja celebrations at his newly-built palace — the rest, as they say, is history. And now Prabir Krishna Deb, an eighth-generation descendant of Naba Krishna Deb, is seeking to preserve a bit of that history on paper. “There was a risk of the history being lost over time, so I decided to document it,” said Mr. Deb, 69, who is a student of the Indian College of Arts and Draftsmanship. The 50 illustrations are also being exhibited at the Kolkata Centre for Creativity, where the book, Shobhabazar Rajbari — A Tryst with Heritage and History , was released last Saturday. “I began working on the illustrations some seven years ago, but the idea to put them together occurred more recently when I published a similar pictorial book about our family deity. That book was originally meant for family members but even the general public started showing interest in it. That’s when I thought of documenting the history of our Durga Puja,” Mr. Deb said. The chief guest at Naba Krishna’s maiden Durga Puja celebrations in 1757 was Robert Clive himself. This grand event — there was music and dance, food and wine — went on to inspire wealthy Bengalis into organising Durga Puja at their homes and competing with one another in inviting high-ranking sahibs for the occasion — a practice that continued until the early decades of the twentieth century. Naba Krishna Deb, since he had no heir for a long time, went on to adopt his brother’s son, Gopi Mohun. Later, though, when he fathered a son, Rajkrishna, through another wife, he began another Durga Puja across the road, either in 1788 or 1790. Subsequently he split his wealth between the two homes — boro taraf (loosely translated, from the elder wife’ side) and chhoto taraf (younger wife’s side). Mr. Deb, the artist, belongs to the chhoto taraf . The wing of the chhoto taraf palace where Durga Puja is held — intricately depicted by him in one of the illustrations — is said to have been designed by the grandson of the architect of the Taj Mahal. Next project The artist’s next project will be on the various forms of transport used by Naba Krishna Deb and his descendants. “Naba Krishna was the first in Calcutta to use the elephant as the mode of transport. He was also the first to use the palanquin for personal transport. Then the horse-drawn cars came. The family was also the first to own motor cars in the city. In a way, they shaped modern transport in Kolkata and I am going to document all that,” said Mr. Deb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/documenting-the-rich-history-of-durga-puja/article36816210.ece
04 October 2021||Kozhikode,||T.P. murder case: Rema demands SC lawyer as new prosecutor||With the Kerala High Court considering a batch of petitions in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case this week, a demand by Vadakara legislator K.K.Rema that the Home Department appoint a Supreme Court-based lawyer to take up the case of her slain husband appears to have put the State government in a real predicament. Ms. Rema, leader of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP), who won with the support of the United Democratic Front (UDF) said that it was up to the government to decide after special public prosecutor C.K. Sreedharan expressed his inability to continue the case citing health reasons. “I have already sent a request to the Home Secretary,” she told The Hindu on Sunday. Incidentally, advocate K. Gopalakrishna Kurup, who had appeared for the accused is now Advocate General and K.K. Ragesh, who was acquitted in an interim verdict is now private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The High Court will examine the petitions on the verdict of the Special Additional Sessions Court in January 2014. Ms. Rema said all the accused by the trial court should be punished and the killer gang hired by the CPI(M) local leadership deserved capital punishment. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government has been spending crores of rupees by engaging senior lawyers to conduct cases involving that party. “So far, I have not received any response from the government,” she said. The previous Congress-led UDF government had subscribed to Ms. Rema’s appeal. However the accused had also appealed against the verdict saying that they were innocent and sought acquittal. The trial court had convicted 12 accused, including three functionaries of the CPI(M). Eleven were sentenced to life imprisonment and another awarded a jail term of three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tp-murder-case-rema-demands-sc-lawyer-as-new-prosecutor/article36816021.ece
04 October 2021||Mumbai,||Cruise drug party: Athawale calls for severe punishment||Against the backdrop of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) detaining Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and others after busting a drug party onboard a cruise ship near Mumbai, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday said anybody involved in such wrong acts should face severe punishment. Speaking to reporters at Ulhasnagar in the Thane district, Mr. Athawale said he would request Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that the state and Mumbai are rid of drugs. “After the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the cases of drugs in the film industry have come to light. The film industry is plagued with the misuse of drugs. We want Maharashtra and Mumbai to be free of drugs. We will raise this demand with the CM,” he said. Mr. Athawale also took potshots at Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, saying its constituents are involved in “infighting” instead of addressing the issue of pothole-ridden roads. The RPI (A) Chief further said his party would ally with BJP in the upcoming elections including the one to the Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC). Athawale said the elections to the Mumbai civic body will be held along with the KDMC. “I am confident that a BJP nominee will be elected as mayor and RPI candidate as Deputy Mayor,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cruise-drug-party-athawale-calls-for-severe-punishment/article36816215.ece
04 October 2021||Neemuch/M.P.,||Mob vandalises religious place in M.P. on suspicion of conversion||A place of worship was damaged using explosives and its priest and a devotee were thrashed with sticks allegedly by two dozen masked people at Jawad tehsil in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, police said on Sunday. The attackers left behind a pamphlet claiming the shrine was involved in converting Hindus to Islam. The attack lasted for four hours from around 11 p.m. on Saturday to 3 a.m. on Sunday, police said. The injured devotee, identified as Abdul Rajjak, has been admitted to a hospital while the priest Noor Baba sustained minor injuries, Superintendent of Police Suraj Kumar Verma said. Mr. Noor has lodged a complaint with the police following which an FIR was registered against 24 unidentified people on the charges of rioting, damaging the place of worship etc., under the Indian Penal Code, he said over the phone. Explosives used Prima facie, the place of worship was damaged with the use of some explosive substance. When asked about the explosive used, the SP said it would be known after forensic analysis. This religious place is located in a forested and deserted area under the Ratangarh police station in the Neemuch district, he added. Mr. Verma confirmed the attack lasted for four hours. Asked about the pamphlet, he said that it might have been dropped to misguide the investigators and give the incident a different turn. Mr. Verma, however, said he was not in a position to say anything about the identity of the accused, adding the investigation was under way.  The SP also said the place of worship sustained just “5% damage” but also admitted that the attack had weakened its pillars. He denied reports that the attackers were armed with swords and spears but said they were carrying lathis. Meanwhile, a video showed the priest of the shrine and a devotee couple narrating the sequence of events. The wounded priest, writhing in pain with one of his legs bandaged, said he was tied, bundled, and bashed by masked men. The woman says at least 20 to 25 armed and masked people were involved in the incident. In the video clip, the woman shows an injury she claimed to have suffered in the attack. She claims that her husband Abdul Rajjak was held captive and tied. Meanwhile, members of the Muslim community took out a march against the incident in the Neemuch city. They handed over a memorandum to police officers seeking stern action against the attackers.  The pamphlet might have been dropped to misguide the investigators and give the incident a different turn Suraj Kumar Verma Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mob-vandalises-religious-place-in-mp-on-suspicion-of-conversion/article36816023.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Why Delhi roads get flooded every monsoon?||During the monsoon, many parts of Delhi, including arterial roads, get waterlogged leading to traffic snarls even with an hour’s rainfall. The main reason is the problems related to the city’s storm water drains. The city works on a drainage master plan made in 1976 and one such plan prepared by IIT Delhi for the Delhi government in 2018 is yet to be implemented. In an interview with The Hindu, Professor Emeritus of IIT Delhi, A.K. Gosain, whose team prepared the new plan, tells how the story of a new master plan turned out to be one of disappointment. Why does Delhi face urban flooding? In Delhi’s case, flooding could be due to two reasons: floods in the Yamuna or local rainfall. In 1978, Delhi had witnessed a flood due to a rise in the Yamuna water level. But the annual urban flooding we see is due to local rainfall. The run-off water (water left after being absorbed by the earth) from the local rainfall is supposed to drain into the Yamuna through storm water drains. But due to a combination of reasons, including sewage flowing in storm water drains, it does not properly drain into the Yamuna and leads to urban flooding. The drains were made decades ago to handle a particular amount of run-off water. Over the years, the paved area has increased due to development. So, if earlier, a particular amount of rainfall generated 50% of run-off water and the rest was absorbed by the earth, now the run-off water is about 90%. Also, due to climate change, the intensity of rainfall has increased and this also increases the amount of water. But the drainage system is the same and it is unable to handle the excess water. Is Delhi’s natural topography a reason for urban flooding? West Delhi is at a higher altitude and there is a slope towards the Yamuna and this actually aids water to drain into the Yamuna. If a city’s topography is flat, then it will be more prone to urban flooding. So, compared to Kolkata or Patna, Delhi is at an advantage in terms of topography. But the part of the city east of the Yamuna is a low-lying area. How did IIT Delhi start working on Delhi’s drainage master plan? In 2012, I was heading the civil engineering department at IIT Delhi and used to have meetings with the government on different issues. It was during one such meeting that the then secretary of the Irrigation Department of the Delhi government told me that they were trying to get a drainage master plan made for the city. The government had floated tenders and private companies were asking for Rs. 10-Rs. 11 crore. We said that we could create a simulation model for the whole Delhi. This would be a framework that the government could upgrade and keep using. We submitted a proposal and agreed to do it for Rs. 80 lakh, which was less than 10% of what the private companies had quoted. What is the master plan and why is it needed? A master plan is needed to study why flooding is happening even with light rain and come up with a plan to fix it. We used data provided by departments ranging from soil type, topography and land use to rainfall and existing storm water drain network to create a mathematical model (a software), which can generate solutions for waterlogging for the whole city. We generated four solutions for different drains — adjusting slope of the existing drain, diverting water to existing water bodies, using additional storages, and other development works. These solutions considered the rainfall, slope of the drain, and many other factors and were done with a bigger picture in mind to provide a comprehensive solution to the city, rather than isolated ones. The model is a dynamic one and can be used to even assess the impact even constructing new drains. The model will keep on giving solutions as you change the different parameters. That is the beauty of the model we have created. Rather than giving the work to a contractor without knowing the impact, the government can actually assess the impact of proposed changes. The master plan was commissioned in 2012, but why did it get delayed? The government was supposed to give us data of the drains and we were told that the data was digitised. But we were shocked when we saw the data. In the name of digitisation of drains, there was only a line showing that a drain was passing through an area. The size, depth, slope etc., which are needed for analysis, were not there. We immediately sought a meeting with the Chief Secretary and said that nothing could be done with this data. He understood the issue and directed 11 departments, under whose jurisdiction the drains fall, to provide us with data of the drains. These departments in turn engaged contractors to give the data. What happened after that? It took more than a year to get the data. But there were problems in that too. We kept on telling them that in many segments the data given to us showed that the drain was going up instead of down. We call them adverse slopes. A drain needs a gradual slope for water to flow through it of its own under gravity. So, an adverse slope means that either the data is wrong or the construction of the drain in that area is problematic. We kept on asking the departments to verify the data; some did it, but majority of them did not verify the data given to us. We even sent 900 students over the course of four-five years to observe the condition of the drains. They had clicked about 2,500 geo-tagged photos of the drains. These photos showed that the drains were full of muck, which went against the government’s claim of cleaning them. When did you submit the report? We submitted the draft report in December 2016 and then the departments kept correcting the data and we submitted it again in April 2017, May 2017, November 2017, and the final report was submitted in July 2018. We mentioned in the report also that the data was not verified by the departments. As part of the report, we gave them suggestions to divert water coming to the drains by digging rainwater harvesting pits in parks and diverting water to water bodies. We also told them that we could help them with how to remove silt in drains and verify it. These were things that could be done right away, but they didn’t do anything. Was it implemented? On August 1, 2018, we gave a presentation to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the master plan. The CM asked different departments to implement the recommendations made in the report and we thought that the project was over from our side. But nothing happened after that. A technical expert committee was formed in 2012 to be involved with us from the beginning on the project, but it had never met with us. In 2019, suddenly, it met for the first time and it was decided that the departments should verify at least 10% of the data. Again, the departments were not responding and after a lot of pressure, in 2021, some departments said that of the 10% data, there was 50% error — it took two years for this. Now we are disappointed and feeling very foolish that we decided to help the government. Many people will say that the project didn’t work because IIT didn’t do its job. Can the master plan be implemented in the current form? No, the study has to be reworked with validated data. The best way forward will be to identify the perpetually flooded areas and identify drainage networks belonging to those locations. The data of these networks should be verified on priority and the rest can be taken step by step. Since we have provided them the complete modelling framework, the government should close this phase and discuss the way forward as a separate project. So, is the project over now? No, the project is not concluded. After nine years, we haven’t been given even one third of the agreed payment. Two months ago, we had written to the government to end the current project, but there has been no reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/why-delhi-roads-get-flooded-every-monsoon/article36816012.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects bail plea of woman caught with contraband drug||The Delhi High Court has denied bail to a woman, who was caught with 600 gm of highly addictive drug methamphetamine — also known as meth or crystal meth — at Nizamuddin railway station here saying her “clean and tidy track record” does not absolve her from the offence. Unaware of content Sonia Shamrao Naik Goankar, hailing from Goa who had moved to Mumbai in 2017 for a job in the film industry, claimed that she did not know the contents of the bag given by to her by a Nigerian acquaintance. “An uneducated person may claim no knowledge of the substance found in his/her possession and may raise a defense of the substance being planted on them but being a highly educated person, there is greater presumption that carrying large quantities of narcotics is a crime and that it would entail consequences in law which could be harsh and irrevocable,” Justice Subromonium Prasad said. As the quantity recovered from Ms. Goankar is commercial quantity, the court dismissed her regular bail plea. As per the case report, on February 22, 2018, Ms. Goankar was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai by train from Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station when she was intercepted by officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a secret tip. She was then searched by two lady railway police officers but nothing was found on her body. The woman officer then checked her baggage, in which, amongst other things they found a small pouch kept clandestinely. Inside the pouch, they found the crystalline substances in two plastic packets tied together in a linen cloth. A test of that crystalline substance was done on the spot and it tested positive to be methamphetamine. Ms. Goankar disclosed that she got the contraband from Moses Henry Onyendu when she was at the house of Charles Ezih, both Nigerians. The NCB conducted raids at Charles Ezih and Henry Onyendu houses where large commercial quantities of methamphetamine and cocaine respectively were seized. The NCB also discovered that these two accused were living illegally in India on fake passports. Material on record discloses that Ms. Goankar is a part of a network which deals in supply/sale of narcotics, the court said, while dismissing her plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-woman-caught-with-contraband-drug/article36816003.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘We will demolish illegally built temple’||The Delhi government has told the Delhi High Court that the authorities plan to demolish an illegally constructed temple on a footpath, a public land, at Bhishma Pitamah Marg in South Delhi’s Defence Colony. The Delhi government made the submission while responding to a petition by a man who had sought removal of the encroachment in front of his property at Defence Colony. It said that the authorities were “conscious of its duty” and has already planned to demolish the illegal encroachment at the said site on October 4. Necessary assistance Advocate Anupam Srivastava, representing the Delhi government and DCP (South), also assured the High Court that the Delhi police will render the necessary assistance to the authorities to carry out the proposed demolition drive. In view of the statement of the counsel, Justice Rekha Palli asked the authorities to submit a status report on the issue by October 8, the next date of hearing. The man, in his petition, said during the COVID-19 pandemic, unknown person trespassed and illegally constructed a temple on the footpath in front of his property. He stated that taking advantage and shelter of the illegal construction, people gather there and indulge in “rowdiness and gambling and suspected drinking of alcohol and consuming illegal substances”. The petitioner said that the illegal structure and the gatherings behind it impedes full access to his property. The resident stated that severalrepresentations made to the authorities who engage in planning, designing, constructing and maintenance of government assets have failed to remove the illegal encroachment on public land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-will-demolish-illegally-built-temple/article36816001.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Four sharpshooters of Gogi gang arrested||Four sharpshooters of the Gogi gang, who had allegedly come to the national capital to kill the leader of their rival gang Tillu Tajpuriya, were arrested by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell, officials said on Sunday. The arrests come days after Jitendra Gogi, the leader of the Gogi gang, was shot dead inside a Rohini courtroom on September 24 by two assailants at the behest of Tajpuriya. The assailants were killed in retaliatory firing by the police. The police said in view of recent incidents of gang-related violence, a dedicated team of the Special Cell was constituted on the directions of Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana to trace criminals and gangsters as part of an inter-State operation. Through surveillance, it was learnt on October 1 that the accused would be going to Prahaladpur and Khera village in Delhi to murder some members of their rival gang, said a senior police officer. The police team spotted the car of the accused and blocked their way, he said. After the accused found themselves surrounded, they opened fire at the police team. However, the police team managed to overpower the accused. Two other members of the Gogi gang, who were in another car, managed to escape. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the arrested accused are members of the Gogi gang and had come to Delhi to murder Tajpuriya, who is the leader of their rival gang and the mastermind of Gogi’s murder. The accused planned to kill Tajpuriya when he was either being produced in court or being taken to a hospital for a medical examination, he said.  The accused planned to kill gang rival Tajpuriya when he was either being produced in court or being taken to a hospital for medical examination Sanjeev Kumar Yadav DCP (Special Cell)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-sharpshooters-of-gogi-gang-arrested/article36816009.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||In a first, DMRC to construct flyover-cum-metro viaduct||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said that it is building an integrated flyover-cum-metro viaduct along with a vehicle underpass near Soorghat on the Majlis Park–Maujpur corridor of phase IV in north-east Delhi, in association with the Public Works Department (PWD). The DMRC said the flyover and vehicle underpass are part of a proposed elevated road along the Yamuna parallel to Ring Road between Wazirabad flyover (Signature Bridge) and Ring Road near DND and it is for the first time in the history of Delhi Metro that such a project is being undertaken. “Integrated portals will be erected on which a road flyover as well as a Metro viaduct will be placed. While on one side of the portal, the Metro viaduct will be placed, a PWD flyover used for vehicular movement will be constructed on the other side. On these portals, the flyover and the viaduct will rest and run parallel to each other for a length of (approximately) 450 metres,” the DMRC said in a statement. It added that a vehicle underpass will also be constructed below these portals which will cater to movement of vehicles coming from Outer Ring Road. The work is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. Under phase IV, the DMRC is already building two integrated double decker flyovers on which the Metro viaduct and the flyover will be placed one over the other. However, this particular stretch is unique, since the flyover and the Metro viaduct will be parallel to each other, the DMRC said. The Majlis Park–Maujpur corridor is 12.098 km long comprising eight stations and is completely elevated. This extension of the Pink Line will complete the ring of the Majlis Park–Shiv Vihar corridor and will be the first ever ring corridor in the country with a length of about 70 km, the DMRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-a-first-dmrc-to-construct-flyover-cum-metro-viaduct/article36816016.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 33 COVID-19 cases, zero death; positivity rate 0.07%||The Capital reported 33 cases of COVID-19 and zero death in a day while the positivity rate stood at 0.07%, according to data shared by the Health Department on Sunday. Delhi has recorded only one death in October so far. Last month, five people had succumbed to the disease. With the new cases, the novel coronavirus infection tally in the city climbed to 14,38,966. Of this, over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. The death toll stands at 25,088. According to the health bulletin, authorities conducted 50,631 tests, including 43,365 RT-PCR ones, the previous day. There are 386 active cases in Delhi, of whom 115 are in home isolation. The number of containment zones stands at 96. In April and May, Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a number of lives with the issue of oxygen shortage at hospitals adding to the woes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-33-covid-19-cases-zero-death-positivity-rate-007/article36816013.ece
04 October 2021||New Delhi,||Three men open fire outside elderly woman’s house||Three unidentified bike-borne men allegedly opened fire outside the house of a 78-year-old woman in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar, the police said on Sunday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday when the elderly woman along with her family members were asleep, the police said. No one was injured in the incident, the police said. Three men arrived at the house and one of them who had a gun allegedly fired four rounds in the air following which the trio sped off, a senior police officer said. Three empty cartridges along with a live cartridge was recovered from the spot. CCTV footage from and around the spot are being being scanned to identify the accused, the officer said. DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap said a case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-men-open-fire-outside-elderly-womans-house/article36816004.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Making sense of Sobti||While reading the English translation of a literary work of an Indian writer, we often wonder how one could access the cultural context or the literary tradition from which the original text may have evolved. Sometimes, we can smell the soil and sweat, but, at times, the characters remain confined between covers. Routledge UK and South Asia has come up with Writer in Context Series to help fill this gap in critical literary studies. With Sukrita Paul Kumar and Chandana Dutta as the series editors, nearly a dozen books will be published over the next couple of years. The editors have picked up writers from different Indian languages, belonging to the post-Independence period. This week, the first book in the series, the UK edition of the volume Krishna Sobti: A Counter Archive, edited by Sukrita and Rekha Sethi, hit the stands. Sukrita says though translation poses challenges that, at times, seem insurmountable, it needs to be pursued and supported for better understanding of differences, within the country and outside. “Translation arouses sensitivities towards the ‘stranger’ and the activity itself can make us accommodate and respect differences.” Here Sukrita, who held the Aruna Asaf Ali Chair in the University of Delhi and is known for her poignant poetry and painstaking translations, gives us a sense of the series and what makes Sobti transcend generations and languages.  Edited excerpts:   What is the idea behind the series?   For a comprehensive understanding of a literary text, it needs also to be placed within the context of the literary cultural tradition of the language in which the text originally comes from. Each volume aims to present samples from the writer’s oeuvre, along with critical essays on the reception of the works, the major literary contribution of the writer, a biochronology, reminiscences, memorabilia, etc. This will greatly facilitate in understanding and teaching of the writer in translation. This is a collective venture, an important intervention in literary studies in India and abroad.  What makes Sobti special or different when it comes to translation?   Indeed Sobti is special. Extraordinary, because in each of her novels she uses a different Hindi that negotiates with Punjabi or Gujarati or Rajasthani, or even the language of ‘Old Delhi’. The language of her story is born from the geographical and cultural region her characters belong to. That makes it very difficult to translate the inflections and tonal quality of her different voices into English. She is an excellent wordsmith… the translator has to match her linguistic skills with hers.  When did you first meet Sobti? What are your memories of her?   I met her way back in the early ’90s first. I remember her as very warm and generous, both in emotions as well as in giving gifts, but also she came across as a person of strong convictions, one who would not let go of anything easily. The manuscript of her first novel, Channa , remained locked in a box for over half a century… She would not take it out for publication till nearly the last year of her life when she was persuaded to have it published. She was someone who lived in total autonomy and rejoiced in narrating anecdotes that vouched for this. She believed that her antecedents could be traced to Greece because she had seen a Greek coin that carried the name Sobti. She was also very alert and attentive to politics; day to day news affected her and she reacted strongly by also protesting and writing on some political issues. Our volume on her brings out these varied aspects of her being.  How can a translator become one with the author?   One of the great virtues of a translator is to be absolutely humble andhave the ability to submit to the experience of the text to be translated. The owning of the experience is mandatory. Also, one must translate a text that one likes and, in fact, loves it to be able to sacrifice one’s own ideas, opinions and biases. After all, when one is in love, one is ready to die for the other!  You have been translating texts for years. Have you arrived at a process?   There is no rigid or fixed process that one arrives at conclusively. That is why I enjoy it asmuch as perhaps writing my own poetry. Translation too needs to be thought of as dynamic and creative, something that seeks innovative ways of dealing with new dilemmas and choices. Fresh strategies need to be worked out all the time. For example, now I find reading a translation aloud to match with the tonal quality of the original very helpful. Several drafts of translation may be done… sometimes, only to discover that the first one was the best.  What is more difficult to put in context: poetry or prose?   Maybe poetry. Usually, prose inthe form of a narrative may give away the context of place, time, political underpinnings, historical references, biographical information etc. In poetry, generally the subtlety of expression and ambivalences in meaning can conceal the context. This is not to say that knowing the context would not enhance its understanding. Amrita Pritam’s poem ‘Ajj Akhaan Waris Shah Nu’ becomes more poignant and intense in its pain after getting to know of its context, that of the Partition in 1947.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/making-sense-of-sobti/article36816213.ece
04 October 2021||Washington,||‘Pandora Papers’ expose top world leaders||More than a dozen heads of state and government, including the King of Jordan and the Czech Prime Minister, have hidden millions in offshore tax havens, according to an investigation published on Sunday by the ICIJ media consortium. The so-called “Pandora Papers” investigation — involving some 600 journalists from media including The Washington Post , the BBC and The Guardian — is based on the leak of some 11.9 million documents from 14 financial services companies around the world. Some 35 current and former leaders are featured in the documents analysed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) — facing allegations ranging from corruption to money laundering and global tax avoidance. Over 700 Pakistanis, including some Ministers and key members of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s inner circle, were among the individuals whose names were linked with the “Pandora Papers”. According to the documents, Finance Minister Shaukat Tarin, Minister for Water Resources Moonis Elahi, Senator Faisal Vawda, the family of Minister for Industries and Production Khusro Bakhtiar, among others, had links with offshore companies, Geo News reported. Some retired army officials, businessmen — including Axact’s CEO Shoaib Sheikh — and media company owners, have also been named in the leaks. According to the report, leaked documents revealed that “key members” of Prime Minister Khan’s inner circle, including Cabinet Ministers, their families and major financial backers “have secretly owned an array of companies and trusts holding millions of dollars of hidden wealth”. The documents notably expose how King Abdullah II created a network of offshore companies and tax havens to amass a $100 million property empire from Malibu, California to Washington and London. The BBC cited lawyers for King Abdullah saying all the properties were bought with personal wealth, and that it was common practice for high profile individuals to purchase properties via offshore companies for privacy and security reasons. The documents also show Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis — facing an election later this week — failed to declare an offshore investment company used to purchase a chateau worth $22 million in the south of France. In total, the ICIJ found links between almost 1,000 companies in offshore havens and 336 high-level politicians and public officials, including country leaders, Cabinet Ministers, Ambassadors and others. More than two-thirds of the companies were set up in the British Virgin Islands. In most countries, the ICIJ stresses, it is not illegal to have assets offshore or to use shell companies to do business across national borders. But such revelations are no less of an embarrassment for leaders who may have campaigned publicly against corruption, or advocated austerity measures at home. The “Pandora Papers” are the latest in a series of mass ICIJ leaks of financial documents that started with LuxLeaks in 2014, and was followed by the Panama Papers, the Paradise Papers and FinCen. The documents behind the latest investigation are drawn from financial services companies in countries, including the British Virgin Islands, Panama, Belize, Cyprus, the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and Switzerland. The Panama Papers were based on the data of a Panama-based law firm called Mossack Fonseca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandora-papers-expose-top-world-leaders/article36815782.ece
04 October 2021||Kabul,||Five killed in Kabul mosque blast||At least five civilians were killed in a bomb blast outside a Kabul mosque Sunday, a Taliban official said. It was the deadliest attack in the Afghan capital since U.S. forces left at the end of August. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but suspicion fell on Islamic State extremists who have stepped up attacks on the Taliban in recent weeks, particularly in an IS stronghold in eastern Afghanistan. An apparent roadside bomb went off at the gate of the sprawling Id Gah Mosque in Kabul at a time when a memorial service was being held for the mother of chief Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid. Five people were killed, said Qari Saeed Khosti, the spokesman of the Interior Ministry. Three suspects were arrested after the explosion in Kabul, said Bilal Karimi, a Taliban spokesman. He said Taliban fighters were not harmed. The area around the mosque was cordoned off by the Taliban, who maintained a heavy security presence. Later in the afternoon, the site was cleaned. The only signs of the blast was slight damage to the ornamental arch by the entrance gate. The blast, which could be heard across the centre of the capital, came shortly after the new Taliban “interim government” staged a rally just outside the capital, from which they were driven out in 2001 in a U.S.-led operation launched after the 9/11 attacks.  Sunday’s pro-Taliban rally in Kohdaman township in the hilly outskirts of Kabul was attended by 1,500 men and boys. “This is the day we waited for,” said Khalil Haqqani, the new minister for refugees who in 2011 was labelled a terrorist by the U.S. with a $5 million bounty on his head. He is a prominent leader of the Haqqani militant network founded by his brother Jalaluddin. “We have achieved our goal, but it requires protection,” he told the gathering, with his rifle leaning against the lectern. “My advice to the world is that they leave Afghanistan to Afghanistan.” IS militants have stepped up attacks against the Taliban since their mid-August takeover, signaling a widening conflict between them. IS maintains a strong presence in the eastern province of Nangarhar, where it has claimed responsibility for several killings in the provincial capital of Jalalabad.  Attacks in Kabul have so far been rare, but in recent weeks IS has shown signs it is expanding its footprint beyond the east and closer toward the capital. On Friday, Taliban fighters raided an IS hideout just north of Kabul in Parwan province. The raid came after an IS roadside bomb wounded four Taliban fighters in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/5-killed-in-kabul-mosque-blast-after-taliban-hold-victory-rally/article36815486.ece
04 October 2021||Seoul,||N. Korea threatens UN body after emergency meet||North Korea has warned the UN Security Council against criticising the isolated country’s missile programme, in a statement on Sunday that included unspecified threats against the international body. During an emergency closed-door meeting of the top UN body on Friday, France circulated a proposed statement that expresses concern over North Korea’s missile launches and calls on it to fully implement council resolutions that ban its ballistic missile firings. On Sunday, Jo Chol Su, a senior North Korean Foreign Ministry official, warned the UNSC it “had better think what consequences it will bring in the future in case it tries to encroach upon the sovereignty” of North Korea. Mr. Jo also accused the UN body of a “double-dealing standard” because it doesn’t equally take issue with similar weapons tests by the U.S. and its allies, according to the statement circulated by state media.  Six-month break After a six-month hiatus, North Korea resumed missile tests in September, launching newly developed missiles, including nuclear-capable weapons that place South Korea and Japan within their striking distances. The country still offered conditional talks with South Korea, in what some experts call an attempt to pressure Seoul to persuade Washington to relax crippling economic sanctions on it. Under multiple UN Security Council resolutions, North Korea is banned from engaging in any ballistic missile activities as the country aims to mount nuclear weapons on its ballistic missiles. North Korea has argued its nuclear programme is meant to cope with U.S. military threats, though Washington has said it has no hostile intent toward Pyongyang. Despite its recent launches, North Korea maintains a 2018 self-imposed moratorium on a long-range missile directly threatening the American homeland, a sign that it still wants to keep alive chances for future diplomacy with the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-threatens-top-un-body-after-emergency-meet/article36815490.ece
04 October 2021||Washington,||Thousands march for U.S. abortion rights||Wearing pink hats and T-shirts and shouting “Hands off my body,” tens of thousands of women took to the streets across the U.S. on Saturday in protests aimed at countering a conservative drive to restrict access to abortions. In Washington, about 10,000 protesters rallied in a square near the White House under sunny skies before marching to the U.S. Supreme Court, which will have the final say on the contentious issue. The protesters held signs that read “Mind your uterus” and “Make abortion legal,” with several women — and men — dressed like late Supreme Court justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, America’s iconic women’s rights crusader, who died last year. The perennial fight over the procedure in America has become even more intense since a Texas law went into effect on September 1 banning almost all abortions, unleashing a fierce counterattack in the courts and Congress, but with few public demonstrations until now. Two days before the Supreme Court is due to reconvene, the rallies took place in more than 600 cities, according to organizers, who said that hundreds of thousands of people gathered across all 50 States. Michaellyn Martinez, a woman in her seventies with closely cropped hair, said she got pregnant at the age of 19, several years before the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade case, when the Supreme Court guaranteed the right to an abortion up until a fetus is viable outside the womb. Ms. Martinez ended up having a daughter and getting married only to divorce two years later. “It changed my whole life — not having access to birth control and abortion,” she said. “I don’t want us to go back to the time when I was a young woman.” SC refuses to block law At the Supreme Court, the marchers were met by counterprotests. A chain of riot police kept the two groups apart. The Supreme Court has already refused to block the Texas law and has agreed to review a restrictive Mississippi law that could provide an opportunity to overturn Roe v Wade. So far this year, 19 States have adopted 63 laws restricting access to abortions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tens-of-thousands-march-for-us-abortion-rights/article36815484.ece
04 October 2021||RIO DE JANEIRO,||Protesters seek Bolsonaro impeachment||With Brazil’s presidential election one year away, tens of thousands of demonstrators marched on October 2 in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and dozens of other cities around the country to protestPresident Jair Bolsonaroand call for his impeachment over hisgovernment’s handling of the pandemic. The protests, smaller than those in support of Mr. Bolsonaro last Sept. 7, were promoted by leftist parties and some union movementslinked to the former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva’s Worker´s Party. Mr. Da Silva is widely expected to run against Mr. Bolsonaro in Brazil's October 2, 2022 presidential election. October 2nd’s protest targeted the President for hismishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Bolsonaro, who is not vaccinated and doesn’t usually wear a mask, hasunderestimated the severity of the virusand promoted crowds during the pandemic. Some 5,97,000 have died of COVID-19 in Brazil, a country of 212 million people. Demonstrators also protested surging inflation in mainstays like food and electricity. “It is very painful to see that health and education are being destroyed, and there are many starving people in the country,” Marilena Magnano, a 75-year-old retiree, said. Falling approval ratings The President’s approval ratings have steadily declined throughout the year, but he remains far more popular than prior presidents who were impeached— most recentlyDilma Rousseff of the Workers Party in 2016. Over 130 impeachment requests have been filed since the start ofMr. Bolsonaro’s administration, but the lower house’s speaker, Arthur Lira, and his predecessor have declined to open proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-seek-bolsonaro-impeachment/article36815689.ece
04 October 2021||New York,||Trump asks judge to force Twitter to restore his account||Former President Donald Trump has asked a federal judge in Florida to force Twitter to restore his account, which the company suspended in January following the deadly storming of the U.S. Capitol. Mr. Trump’s attorneys on Friday filed a motion in U.S. District Court in Miami seeking a preliminary injunction against Twitter and its CEO, Jack Dorsey. They argue that Twitter is censoring Mr. Trump in violation of his First Amendment rights, according to the motion. Twitter declined to comment on Saturday on Mr. Trump's filing. The company permanently banned Mr. Trump from its platform days after his followers violently stormed the Capitol building to try to block Congress from certifying Joe Biden’s presidential win. Twitter cited concerns that Mr. Trump would incite further violence. Prior to the ban, Mr. Trump had roughly 89 million followers on Twitter. Mr. Trump was also suspended from Facebook and Google's YouTube over similar concerns that he would provoke violence. Facebook's ban will last two years, until January 7, 2023, after which the company will review his suspension. YouTube’s ban is indefinite. In July, Mr. Trump filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against all three tech companies and their CEOs, claiming that he and other conservatives have been wrongfully censored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-asks-judge-to-force-twitter-to-restore-his-account/article36815691.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Record air intrusion by China for second straight day: Taiwan||A day after China sent a record 38 aircraft towards Taiwan, the Defence Ministry in Taiwan said Beijing had broken its record of air intrusions for a second straight day. As many as 39 aircraft in two waves on Saturday entered the Air Defence Identification Zone (ADIZ), the Defence Ministry said in two statements on Sunday, marking an unprecedented stepping up of what Taiwan has called aerial aggression by Beijing. Taiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang hit out at China for the air deployments, saying they were facts of “military aggression” and “damaging regional peace”. The 39 aircraft on Saturday, mostly J-16s and Su-30s, followed 38 on Friday, also comprising J-16s, Su-30s, and two nuclear capable H-6 bombers. The air intrusions coincided with China’s National Day, marked on Friday, and head of Taiwan’s National Day on October 10. The deployments were seen in Taipei as “a demonstration to Taiwan and United States of the PLA’s joint combat capabilities and its ability to quickly assemble assets from different units”, the official CNA news agency reported, quoting Chieh Chung, a research fellow at the Taiwan think tank Association of Strategic Foresight, as saying the four waves of incursions, over two days, had “occurred both at night and during the day, in a show of the PLA’s capabilities to deploy military assets to Taiwan at any time.” Beijing has often used these intrusions into the ADIZ as signalling, the latest coming on China’s National Day. Another intrusion on September 23 coincided with Taiwan saying it had submitted an application to join the 11-nation CPTPP (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) trade deal, days after China said it had formally applied to join the Pacific pact. Beijing previously also dispatched fighters to coincide with visits of U.S. diplomats to Taiwan. China’s Foreign Ministry had not commented on the air intrusions at the time of writing. Last month, it strongly hit out at Taiwan’s application to join the CPTPP. “There is only one China in the world,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory.” The Communist Party run Global Times quoted military expert Song Zhongping as saying “the increasing scale of exercises is normal and routine since the PLA needs more deployment to deter armed forces on the island and foreign interference from other nations.” The deployments, the newspaper said, were also related to “recent movements of US aircraft carriers” with both the USS Ronald Reagan and USS Carl Vinson sailing in waters near Taiwan recently. U.S. raises concerns Commenting on Saturday’s record air intrusions, U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the U.S. “is very concerned by the People’s Republic of China’s provocative military activity near Taiwan, which is destabilising, risks miscalculations, and undermines regional peace and stability.” “We urge Beijing to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure and coercion against Taiwan,” he said, adding the U.S. had “an abiding interest in peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait” and would “continue to assist Taiwan in maintaining a sufficient self-defence capability”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-says-record-air-intrusion-by-china/article36815482.ece
04 October 2021||Doha,||In Qatar polls, women fail to break through||Women voters voiced disappointment on Sunday after none were elected in Qatar’s first legislative polls with all eyes on whether the Emir will use his powers to appoint 15 lawmakers to boost representation. Thirty men were elected to Qatar’s Shura Council at Saturday’s polls despite more than two dozen women standing for the body which is seen as a nod to democracy rather than a full-fledged parliament. “The (emir’s) quota is the lifeline to ensure women’s representation in the next Assembly,” said defeated candidate Aisha Jassim al-Kuwari, who ran in a constituency alongside four other women against 14 male contenders. “We hope to appoint four to five women because the presence of women is very important. Some of the female candidates were disappointed, of course, because they presented strong programmes — but we should not forget that some female voters chose men and this is the will of the people.” It is not known when the Emir’s appointments will be announced or when the Council will meet. “I’m not happy because all of them (winners) are men — some of them are old. To be honest, I was surprised. It’s not fair,” said voter Shamma who declined to give her full name. “We are really sad.” Dania Thafer, director of the Gulf International Forum, tweeted “I foresee a strong likelihood of women being appointed by the emir”. Of the 284 hopefuls who went into the race for the 30 available council seats, just 28 were women although the final proportion after a number of eleventh-hour candidate withdrawals has not been published. Equal opportunities As well as counting no women amongst their number, the 30 victorious candidates were older men mostly from prominent families, many of whom had backgrounds in business or government. “You lost the battle of victory, but you won the war of participation!” popular Qatari author Ebtesam al-Saad wrote on Twitter. “We still hesitate to accept women... voters still feel that their communication with men is more free and flexible than their dealings with women.” If, as expected by many analysts, the Emir does directly appoint women to improve the gender balance it would follow what happened in Bahrain’s election. Official sources had said this was a likely outcome in the event no women succeeded at the ballot box in Qatar. The Gulf Center for Human Rights said that Qatar’s election laws would “need to be fully amended” to give women candidates a chance at future polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-qatar-polls-women-fail-to-break-through/article36815483.ece
04 October 2021||Peshawar,||Police still clueless about Satnam’s killers: family||The family of Sardar Satnam Singh has said that the police are still clueless about the assailants who managed to escape after killing the well-known Sikh ‘hakeem’ in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar. Satnam Singh, 45, who practised Unani medicine, was at his clinic on Thursday when some unidentified gunmen barged into his cabin and opened fire, killing him on the spot, the police said. The Islamic State’s Afghanistan affiliate, dubbed Islamic State Khorasan (ISIS-K), claimed responsibility for his killing. Manmohan Singh, brother of Satnam Singh, said that the police have not yet found any clue to the killing of his brother. “We have no enmity with anyone nor we had any issue with any person,” he said. “We are five brothers and sisters and belong to the Teerah area of Khyber tribal district Khyber.” However, the Peshawar police have claimed that they are close to nabbing the killers. The case is being investigated in scientific lines to trace the culprits, a senior police official said. “They will soon be in the jail,” the official said. On Saturday, an official said that the Interior Ministry has sought a report from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government into the killing of Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-still-clueless-about-satnams-killers-family/article36815687.ece
04 October 2021||Baghdad,||Iraqis set to elect new Parliament||War-scarred Iraq is set to hold parliamentary elections on October 10, a year early to appease an anti-government protest movement, in a nation that remains mired in corruption and economic crisis. It is feared turnout will again be low among the 25 million eligible voters, with many viewing the entire political class as inept and corrupt. According to UN figures, nearly a third of Iraq’s 40 million people live in poverty. Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhemi moved forward the scheduled 2022 polls as a concession to the youth-led protest movement that erupted two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraqis-set-to-elect-new-parliament/article36815489.ece
04 October 2021||Paris,||French probe finds church paedophiles||Some 3,000 paedophiles have operated inside the French Catholic Church since 1950, the head of an independent commission investigating the scandal told AFP days ahead of the release of its report. The commission’s research uncovered between 2,900 and 3,200 paedophile priests or other members of the church, said Jean-Marc Sauve, adding that it was “a minimum estimate”. The report is due to be released on Tuesday after two and a half years of research based on church, court and police archives, as well as interviews with witnesses. The commission was set up in 2018 by the Bishops’ Conference of France (CEF). The report is expected to be closely studied at the Vatican, where the issue was raised by the Pope in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-probe-finds-church-paedophiles/article36815487.ece
04 October 2021||Tehran,||Iran urges US to unfreeze $10 bn to show 'intentions'||Iran’s Foreign Minister has called on the U.S. to unlock $10 billion of Tehran’s frozen assets to clear the way for a return to a nuclear deal with major powers. If the Americans have “true intentions, let them release some of our assets, for example $10 billion frozen in foreign banks,” Hossein Amir-Abdollahian said in an interview.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-urges-us-to-unfreeze-10-bn-to-show-intentions/article36815488.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Understanding the Taliban for what it is||A realistic assessment of the circumstances in which it has to operate should have induced the Taliban regime in Afghanistan to follow a moderate course. Instead, it has sent out unmistakable signs of a preference for extremism. A peculiar state of mind is almost certainly in play, but to ascribe the dissonance solely to this factor would be a mistake. The Taliban’s obduracy Afghanistan desperately needs financial assistance from the international community. This is not only because of the looming food crisis, which could push lakhs of people to the brink of starvation within weeks. Donors will probably provide food aid in time. But the government has no money to pay salaries or get the machinery moving. Before the U.S. shut shop in mid-August, it is estimated to have taken care of 80% of public expenditure in Afghanistan. Several billion dollars worth of Afghan government funds have now been frozen by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Other donor countries and the International Monetary Fund have also cut off the flow of finance. Russia, Iran and the Central Asian republics cannot pick up the slack; China believes in loans, not grants; and Pakistan is a near basket case. The only source of revenue that the authorities in Kabul can hope to tap is customs payments and a good part of those could be siphoned off by the militias that control border check posts. Western countries are not likely to recognise the Taliban regime as the legitimate government — a necessary condition for the loosening of purse strings — unless it fulfils three conditions: Kabul will have to ensure that terrorist groups do not find sanctuary in Afghanistan; the rights of women and minorities must be protected; and the government must be inclusive. But judging by the first steps they took after taking over, the Taliban seem untroubled by these demands or the consequences of non-compliance. In forming a cabinet, the Taliban defiantly signalled that they were inclined to lead their country back to the despotism they had imposed during their earlier stint in power. Hardline Pakhtoons control most ministries, other ethnicities have only token representation, and women have been excluded. Indications about how this lot would rule soon followed. The Education Ministry ordered male teachers and students back to secondary school but made no mention of women educators or girl students. Working women were told they must stay at home until proper systems are in place to ensure their safety. There is no longer a Women’s Ministry; the Taliban have brought back the Ministry for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice. They have banned protests that do not have their approval. Minor concessions on the demand for inclusiveness of non-Pakhtoons are not likely to satisfy the world or the other ethnic groups in Afghanistan. Ministry formation has added another hindrance to the flow of funds. Many in the cabinet figure in the UN’s sanctions list and the U.S.’s terrorism list. The U.S. may even impose sanctions on other countries who provide aid to this Cabinet. Given these apparently insurmountable hurdles, why have the Taliban displayed such obduracy? A sensible course would have been to show compliance, obtain recognition in order to establish diplomatic ties and get the funds flowing. Revival of the hardline could have been postponed until the regime’s position as a legitimate entity had been secured. Other governments would have found the rupturing of ties more difficult than withholding recognition from the outset. A hotchpotch of militias The general belief is that the Taliban are fanatically devoted to a pre-modern world view. This narrative is designed to embed in the world’s consciousness the idea that the young Talibs form the core of this enterprise and are such strong believers in whatever they have been taught that they will turn against their political leaders if there is any deviation from the world view and policies they espouse. The story goes that any compromise by the elders or nominal superiors will drive these young Talibs to join the Islamic State-Khorasan Province (IS-KP). It is time to call this bluff. Young Talibs, whether drawn from the villages or the refugee camps, are probably all true Muslims and most might have some respect for their mullahs. But they are not as unexposed to the world as the generation preceding them. According to reports, they have had no inhibitions in posing for photographs or listening to music, activities frowned upon by the strictly conservative. The earlier generation of Talibs might have respected Osama bin Laden for sacrificing a life of luxury to join the jihad. But that did not motivate them to join al Qaeda even though bin Laden made an oath of allegiance to their revered leader, Mullah Omar. After all, there were no Afghans among the 19 militants associated with 9/11. If that was the case in the heyday of jihadism, there seems to be little reason to think that these young men will now drift towards the IS-KP. Are the extremists who have cornered the plum posts in the cabinet likely to make common cause with the IS-KP if they are thwarted from implementing their policies? They do subscribe to an ideology that is a mix of Pakhtoonwali (the old tribal code) and a paternalistic interpretation of the Shariah. Devotion to the cause did not prevent them from diverting aid meant for refugees to investments in the Gulf and luxury housing in Quetta. They are certainly conservative and ruthless. But their proclamation of intent to establish a system based on their own interpretation of selected Islamic texts appears nothing more than cynical politics. Overall, the impression sought to be created is that the Taliban movement is an extremist-controlled monolith and unstoppable. Actually, the Taliban are a hotchpotch of militias, which are constantly repositioning themselves in relation to one another. Designations such as Defence Minister have little meaning when the army no longer exists, and Mullah Yaqoob has full control only over the men raised from his locality. Other militias co-opted to serve with his men could drift away over time. Sirajuddin Haqqani, who has gained possession of the intelligence dossiers in his Interior Ministry, and who has the power to appoint governors, might be the only real winner here. Resistance to his appointment might have been a factor that led Inter-Services Intelligence chief Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed to intervene directly in Afghan’s ministry formation. Haqqani’s ascendancy certainly advances Pakistan’s agenda. But the road ahead is fraught in Afghanistan where fault lines run every which way. Pakistan knows that it faces a tough task inside the territory of its western neighbour. Meanwhile, it seems intent on garnering what benefits it can. In prompting its protégés to be intransigent, Pakistan can present itself before the world as the only entity capable of controlling the crazies. Kesava Menon is a senior journalist whose other articles can be read on kesavamenon@wordpress.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/understanding-the-taliban-for-what-it-is/article36815480.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Reimagining food systems with lessons from India||The first and historic United Nations Food Systems Summit (UNFSS) 2021 which was held in September this year, concluded after an intense ‘bottom-up’ process conceived in 2019 by UN Secretary-General António Guterres to find solutions and ‘catalyse momentum’ to transform the way the world produces, consumes, and thinks about food and help address rising hunger. In terms of larger goals, the food system transformation is considered essential in achieving the sustainable development agenda 2030. This makes strong sense as 11 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) out of 17 are directly related to the food system. The summit involved several activities before the run-up to the meeting of the Head of States on September 23. While the dialogues on the five tracks identified have been under way for the past 18 months, the world has seen the fragility and vulnerability of food systems, highlighted by the disruptive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that is projected to double the global hunger figure. Why the Food Systems Summit and what is the expectation from its outcome? Global food systems — the networks that are needed to produce and transform food, and ensure it reaches consumers, or the paths that food travels from production to plate — are in a state of crisis in many countries affecting the poor and the vulnerable. The flaws in food systems affect us all, but most of all they are affecting 811 million people in the world who go to bed hungry each night. The summit created a mechanism for serious debates involving UN member states, civil society, non-governmental organisations, academics, researchers, individuals, and the private sector, which is to evolve transformative themes and ideas for reimagining food systems to enhance satisfaction of all stakeholders including future generations. The debate and response focused on five identified action tracks namely: Ensure access to safe and nutritious food for all; Shift to sustainable consumption patterns; Boost nature-positive production; Advance equitable livelihoods, and Build resilience to vulnerabilities, shocks, and stress. The summit provided a historic opportunity to empower all people to leverage the power of food systems to drive our recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and get us back on track to achieve all 17 SDGs by 2030. The Statement of Action emerging from the summit offers a concise set of ambitious, high-level principles and areas for action to support the global call to “Build back better” after the COVID-19 pandemic. India constituted an inter-departmental group under the Chairmanship of one of us , with representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development, and others. Delhi-based U.N. agencies namely the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Food Programme (WFP), and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) were also actively involved in the dialogue process. The group conducted national dialogues with various stakeholders of agri-food systems to explore national pathways towards creating sustainable and equitable food systems in India. Several individuals and civil society organisations contributed ideas to the portal which was created for this purpose. Helping the developing world There are lessons from India’s tryst with food insecurity. Several themes that have emerged in the discussions and dialogues leading up to the summit find resonance with India’s past and ongoing journey towards creating and improving food and livelihood security. The long journey from chronic food shortage to surplus food producer offers several interesting lessons for other developing countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America in the area of land reforms, public investments, institutional infrastructure, new regulatory systems, public support, and intervention in agri markets and prices and agri research and extension. The period between 1991 to 2015, saw the diversification of agriculture beyond field crops and brought greater focus on the horticulture, dairy, animal husbandry, and fishery sectors. The learnings encompassed elements of nutritional health, food safety and standards, sustainability, deployment of space technology, and the like. Safety nets, challenges One of India's greatest contributions to equity in food is its National Food Security Act 2013 that anchors the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS), the Mid-Day meals (MDM), and the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). Today, India’s food safety nets collectively reach over a billion people. Food safety nets and inclusion are linked with public procurement and buffer stock policy. This was visible during the global food crises 2008-2012 and more recently during the COVID-19 pandemic fallout, whereby vulnerable and marginalised families in India continued to be buffered against the food crisis by its robust TPDS and buffer stock of food grains. A look at the challenges and the way forward towards 2050. Climate change and unsustainable use of land and water resources are the most formidable challenges food systems face today. The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report has set the alarm bells ringing, highlighting the urgency to act now. Dietary diversity, nutrition, and related health outcomes are another area of concern as a focus on rice and wheat has created nutritional challenges of its own. India has taken a bold decision to fortify rice supplied through the Public Distribution System with iron. Agricultural research institutes are about to release varieties of many crops having much higher nutrition as a long-term solution for undernutrition and malnutrition. Surplus and low nutrition It is ironic that despite being a net exporter and food surplus country at the aggregate level, India has a 50% higher prevalence of undernutrition compared to the world average. But the proportion of the undernourished population declined from 21.6% during 2004-06 to 15.4% during 2018-20. The high prevalence of undernutrition in the country does not seem to be due to food shortage or the low availability of food. The Government of India and States are seriously concerned about this paradoxical situation of being food surplus and at the same time, having 15% of the population undernourished. They are trying to address other possible reasons for low nutrition through several nutritional interventions. As announced recently, the supply of fortified rice in PDS and Poshan Abhiyan are the two steps among many to address the challenge of undernutrition and malnutrition. Reducing food wastage or loss of food is a mammoth challenge and is linked to the efficiency of the food supply chain. Food wastage in India exceeds Rs. 1-lakh crore. Why the world must eliminate hunger is the next point. An alarming escalation in global hunger is unfolding, with the ‘dramatic worsening’ of world hunger in 2020, much of it likely related to the fallout of COVID-19. While the pandemic’s impact has yet to be fully mapped, ‘The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World’ report, estimates that around a tenth of the global population was undernourished last year. It is important to reiterate that hunger and food insecurity are key drivers of conflict and instability across the world. ‘Food is peace’, is a catchphrase often used to highlight how hunger and conflict feed on each other. The Nobel Peace Prize 2020 conferred on the United Nations WFP highlighted the importance of addressing hunger to prevent conflicts and create stability. The citation communiqué articulated this well by quoting the line: “Until the day we have a medical vaccine, food is the best vaccine against chaos.” For equity, sustainability We are on the cusp of a transformation to make the world free of hunger by 2030 and deliver promises for SDGs, with strong cooperation and partnership between governments, citizens, civil society organisations, and the private sector. We must collaborate to invest, innovate, and create lasting solutions in sustainable agriculture contribution to equitable livelihood, food security, and nutrition. India has so much to offer from its successes, and learning also, to prepare itself for the next 20 to 30 years. This surely requires reimagining the food system towards the goal of balancing growth and sustainability, mitigating climate change, ensuring healthy, safe, quality, and affordable food, maintaining biodiversity, improving resilience, and offering an attractive income and work environment to smallholders and youth. Achieving the goal of “Advancing equitable livelihood” requires that the food systems transformation is anchored around small- and medium-scale production, family farmers, indigenous peoples, women, and workers in food value chains. Bishow Parajuli is United Nations World Food Programme India Representative and Country Director. Ramesh Chand is Member, NITI Aayog and India’s Convenor of the National Dialogue on Food Systems Summit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reimagining-food-systems-with-lessons-from-india/article36815470.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘Maharaja’ price to pay for an aviation homecoming||Over the last few days, there has been much speculation over who will win the privatisation bid for Air India. Under the plan, the Government of India is to sell its 100% stake each, in Air India and Air India Express, and a 50% shareholding in the joint venture, AI-SATS (between Air India and Singapore Airport Terminal Services). Though the Government of India has clarified that “media reports indicating approval of financial bids by the Government... are incorrect”, there are signs that the winning bid will be that of the Tatas. It could be a difficult merger When the Tatas, with their joint venture with Singapore Airlines, launched an airline in 2015 under the brand name Vistara, it marked the culmination of a long battle, overcoming obstacles placed in their path by all other airlines including Air India. While the group has still to wade out of the red in this aviation venture, they have now been cornered to take over Air India and Air India Express, in spite of the anti-national barb being bandied about. The other venture of the Tatas, Air Asia India, is also weighing them down. We have witnessed how Air India and Indian Airlines, which were in the black before their ill-conceived formal merger in 2007, plunged into a bottomless pit draining tax-payers’ funds. In the eventuality of the Tatas winning the Air India bid, merging the four airlines (Air India, Air India Express, Vistara and Air Asia India) will require large doses of the magic potion of Getafix of Asterix fame. Many speed bumps Vistara has just begun spreading its wings on long haul routes and also set service standards in general, with a Singapore touch. Under a Tata-owned Air India, will it concede that path to Air India or will there be a duplication of routes? Can people forget the multiple duplication of routes, offices, staff, etc. on international routes of the merged entity? If, as rumoured, staff are to be retained for a period of a year or so, with certain categories who cannot be given the golden handshake, being rehabilitated in other Tata ventures, it is going to demotivate existing efficient staff. Why did the Air India-Indian Airlines merger fail? The umbilical cord that each of these airlines had with Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan (the headquarters of the Ministry of Civil Aviation) was never cut. The kickback culture, with inflated costs, ensured that the venture only sank deeper into debt. What the Tatas would be getting now is a hydra-headed monster — the Air India-Indian Airlines entity and Air India Express . All of them work on the Peter Principle, with multiple types of aircraft. If one digs deep, the aircraft lease charges will be found to be several notches higher than what a professional outfit would have negotiated. Vistara, a very professionally managed organisation, is now going to be buffeted by indisciplined, inefficient and corrupt personnel and the shockwaves are, without doubt, going to hurt. Have the Tatas foreseen the damage it can cause to their culture? Will the Tatas run the multi-airline system independent of interference by the Ministry of Civil Aviation? Only time will tell. The Tatas may have the finances to bear the brunt of a forced buy. But do they have the means to bring in a safety and training culture of the highest standards that J.R.D. Tata, Air India’s founder, envisaged? Air India’s training standards are known to be entwined in fudged records, and on substandard simulators that lack mandatory equipment for want of spares. Trainers have been promoted not for their professional standards or competence but for their proximity to the powers-that-be. Documents have been fudged to show safety compliance, with the authority, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), turning a blind eye. Dangerous waivers and dispensations have been granted by the DGCA as they all come under a single umbrella, the Ministry of Civil Aviation! At a time when the aviation scene worldwide is in the doldrums, the Tatas would need to fork out an estimated Rs. 24,000 crore for just the airline business and the share in the SATS venture. A Rs. 40,000 crore-plus or more of Air India’s debt goes into a special purpose vehicle that will monetise Air India’s assets such as property and land banks. Air India’s training centres are also located in those land banks. So, does the deal include these, or are these hidden costs as someone else may bid higher for those and the Tatas may end up forking out a huge sum for the use of these banks of land? The training centres that the current Vistara and Air India group use will be grossly inadequate for use by the new combine. Staff issues, lax safety culture One of the major problems that Air India has is its Delhi-centric operations and staff approach. For the Tatas to bring in efficiency, many staff would need to be relocated to various parts of the country for optimum use of manpower. In this, the Tatas could face huge resistance, backed by the political clout of the deadwood in Air India. The manpower absorption issue is going to hurt the new venture in a big way. If Vistara is to be merged with Air India, the dilution in standards is going to hurt the Tatas and result in a huge motivation problem for those who helped build Vistara and Air Asia India. Another major issue is the safety culture. Except for an incident in 2019 — a case of low fuel and an emergency landing in Lucknow — (the report was covered up by the DGCA), Vistara has generally had a clean record. What the Tatas could be getting now is an ‘airline combo’ with abysmal safety standards and culture. Air India Express can be called an ‘accident/incident-a month-prone’ entity. Its failures have resulted in nearly 180 lives being lost. In addition there are cases of several close shaves at various airports and severe damage to aircraft on record. Air India too has had its share of accidents and serious incidents, fostered by the low safety culture of the DGCA. All this is going to fall into the lap of the Tatas. In the event of Tatas winning the bid, any such safety incident will be referred to as a Tata airline accident/incident. Do the Tatas want such a tag? They need to crack the whip and correct this aberration and culture, which is not going to be popular in Delhi. Maintenance is another major issue with Air India. The culture of hidden snags and verbal reporting has to end. A mindset has to emerge that every passenger life is precious and a flight cannot be cleared unless an aircraft is 100% safe. This is going to be the most difficult task for the Tatas. The flight path Finally, Air India and Vistara will be the only two full service carriers in India and need to focus on yield rather than load factor. They need to take lessons on how British Airways handled the invasion of the load factor mindset propagated by Laker Airways. They need to focus on service, safety and high training standards. They need to axe the non-performers in Air India. They must desist from filling up the airline board with cadre from the Indian Administrative Service as they have proved to be the most disastrous minds for aviation in India. The collapse of so many airlines in India and the huge debt Air India is saddled with is a living example of this. The novel coronavirus pandemic has hit several airlines worldwide. Many have been downsized. And Tatas could be acquiring a white elephant! It could be 2025 when aviation regains its glory after COVID-19. Are the Tatas prepared for the long wait? Captain A. (Mohan) Ranganathan is a former airline instructor pilot and aviation safety adviser, with over 20,000 hours of flying. He is also a former member of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-maharaja-price-to-pay-for-an-aviation-homecoming/article36815473.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||NS2, a win-win proposition?||While the Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline, the Iran-India undersea pipeline, and the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India pipeline remain pipe dreams, the Nord Stream 2 (NS2) running from Russia to Germany across the Baltic Sea is now complete despite controversy. NS2’s manufacture began in 2016 and construction in 2018. The 1,224 km, $11-billion underwater link is the shortest, most economical and environment-friendly route to double Russia’s gas export to Germany. The pipeline offers stability to the strategically important energy trade because Russia’s dependence on the European Union and vice-versa are increased and this should promote realism. Ukraine’s concerns Energy is never removed from politics. Russian authorities say NS2 can transport 55 billion cubic meters of gas each year, cover the needs of about 26 million households, and restock storage inventories, but both Germany and Russia are subject to conditions arising from a compromise between the U.S. and Germany, and EU regulations. European gas prices have broken records this year, edging close to an unprecedented $1,000 per thousand cubic meters which places many industries and food supply chains under stress. This is due to lack of viable alternatives to gas, low storage levels because of a severe winter and the post-COVID-19 economic surge. Ukraine offered extra transit capacity for Russian gas to Europe at 15 million cubic meters per day for October but Russia booked only 4.3% of this, citing domestic demand. Some European politicians accuse Russia of pressure to expedite the start of NS2, but the project needs European certification, which could take up to four more months. Germany has yet to issue an operating licence, blandly stating that it would rule on this next January. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is accused, mainly by Poland and Ukraine, of weakening the EU’s political unity and strategic coherence by giving Russia greater leverage through NS2. Ukraine’s leadership is unhappy as it believes the pipeline is a Russian geopolitical weapon aimed at depriving Ukraine of political traction and crucial revenue. These concerns have been largely disregarded by the EU, which has refused to yield to the demands of a third party. What Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky has secured are assurances from the U.S. that it will impose more sanctions if Russia abuses the advantages of its new pipeline and Germany’s undertakings to help Ukraine develop its energy sector and exert pressure on Moscow to keep its gas transiting through Ukraine even after the current contract ends in 2024. Russian President Vladimir Putin has made it clear that this is acceptable but would depend on purchase contracts from European customers. Behind the argument of protecting Western interests against Russia, the Ukraine case is that if Russia cuts its transportation of gas through Ukraine, Kiev would lose billions of dollars in transit fees, and fears that Russia could reduce energy supplies by cutting those needed for Ukraine’s own consumption. Ukraine has not diversified its economic fundamentals, whose viability is dependent on Russia moving fossil fuels through its territory. But the loss of cheap money gained through transit fees could in the long run benefit its economy. The completion of NS2 suggests that no third party can affect the project’s outcome. Any flagrant violation of the commercial rationale of NS2 by Russia would enable Ukraine to invoke the assurances it has been given; it is accordingly in Moscow’s interest to proceed in a manner that avoids friction. Assistance to Ukraine To enable a consensus on NS2, Germany has promised assistance to Ukraine for development of hydrogen energy, but such commitments are less robust in their detail; Berlin seems to offer a modest €206 million as seed money to attract a potential corporate investment envisaged to be €1 billion. President Zelensky considers this proposal inadequate, and his Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has been forthright saying, “This country has learnt a number of bitter lessons that Western promises are possibly unfulfilled. We do not believe in promises.” Despite the lack of certitudes in Germany’s financial promise, there is reason to take it seriously. The German elections could result in a coalition including the Greens, in which case the Greens might drop their opposition to NS2 in return for more substantial compensation for Ukraine. Since the hydrogen option is environmentally friendly, this presents scope for accommodating the requirements of German coalition politics and support for the Ukrainian budget and turning NS2 into a win-win proposition. It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any good. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former foreign secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ns2-a-win-win-proposition/article36815476.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Peace at the heart of education||On October 2 every year, everyone gathers to celebrate the ideals of peace by marking the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi and the International Day of Non-Violence. The day presents an opportunity to explore the causes of violence and reassert a commitment to building a culture of dialogue through education. The COVID-19 pandemic has introduced new forces of division globally. Levels of hate speech and fear of the ‘other’ have grown, as people have assigned blame for the virus. Forms of structural violence – the economic, racial and gendered forms of injustice built into social systems – have been exacerbated as marginalised groups, including displaced persons and racialised groups, have been disproportionately affected. Around the world, the consequential surge in inequality is driving instability and tension, fuelling potential social unrest. In order to rebuild in solidarity, we must understand the root causes of human animosity and make peace with one another. We must think about the structures, attitudes and skills that create and sustain peace. In ‘Pathways for peace’, a flagship 2018 report by the World Bank and the United Nations, it was shown that many of the world’s conflicts arise from exclusion and feelings of injustice. The question therefore is: how can ignorance and fear of the unknown be overcome through understanding and dialogue? A policy to strengthen equity For UNESCO, education is a significant part of the answer because it can impart the skills and values necessary to recognise and prevent potential conflicts and promote tolerance. As the educator Maria Montessori put it: “Preventing war is the work of politicians, establishing peace is the work of educationists”. Education for peace has a rich history in India. The philosophies of various religions, cultures and of Gandhi have non-violence, syncretism and tolerance at their core. The National Education Policy (NEP) of 2020 also presents a unique opportunity to contribute to strengthening equity, justice and social cohesion. The policy has a broad focus on value-based and experiential education, including promoting critical thinking, cultural exchanges, teaching in regional languages, and a commitment to education for all. This landmark document also advocates for reforms in curricula and pedagogy. As schools reopen, we believe that peace education can be even more integrated within national curricula and the broader learning environment to promote non-violence, conflict resolution and compassion. Equipping children from a young age with the skills to respect the dignity of others is key to building resilient and peaceful societies. Teachers and educators also need to be equipped with skills to promote peace through experiential and interactive methods. Intercultural competencies, like empathy and critical thinking, are best learned through intercultural exchanges and scenario-based learning and not rote learning. A way forward Global best practices, promoted through UNESCO, can offer a way forward. Our organisation’s approaches to global citizenship, education and intercultural dialogue reinforce the idea that peaceful societies are those that embrace diversity and difference. UNESCO’s work to promote media and information literacy and sports for peace equips youth with skills to eradicate harmful stereotypes and stand up against injustice. Focusing on inclusion, UNESCO highlights the need to recognise and improve opportunities for disadvantaged groups, like women and girls and persons with disabilities. UNESCO also promotes schools as safe and non-violent spaces. One year into the NEP 2020 and almost two years into the COVID-19 pandemic, it is important to assess priorities in education. Beyond discussions around innovation, technology and smart future schools, we need to understand the potential of education systems and schools in building peaceful societies. In times of crisis, education has the ability to provide hope and confidence. Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi cluster office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peace-at-the-heart-of-education/article36815477.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Locked in a stalemate||In the coming week, military commanders from India and China are expected to hold the 13th round of talks to continue the effort to find a way out of the LAC crisis. Sharp exchanges between Beijing and New Delhi have served as a reminder that relations are undoubtedly at their lowest since 1988. On September 24, the Chinese Foreign Ministry, while responding to a question about new border management protocols, laid the blame for last year’s border crisis entirely on India’s doorstep, saying India’s “illegal trespass” caused the dispute. The Foreign Ministry repeated this charge in even stronger language, describing, on September 29, India’s actions last year as a “forward policy”, implicitly invoking the 1962 war. New Delhi in turn reminded Beijing that it was its “provocative behaviour”, and amassing of troops in April 2020 following annual military exercises, that led to the flashpoints. The envoys of both countries have also made statements, at a virtual dialogue, that suggest a gulf in the state of relations. The Chinese envoy to India, Sun Weidong, called on both countries to “place the border issue in an appropriate position” and said “it is not the whole story of bilateral relations”. His Indian counterpart, Vikram Misri, said the Chinese side was “shifting goalposts” in how both countries have, for three decades, managed the border areas peacefully. This, he said, was predicated on “a well-understood distinction” between managing the border areas and resolving the boundary question. It is clear that this understanding, along with the four border agreements, has now broken down on account of China’s actions last year to unilaterally re-draw the LAC in Ladakh in the Western Sector. This week’s military commanders talks will take up disputes in Hot Springs, while disputes in Demchok and Depsang remain unresolved. Since the crisis last year, both sides have set up buffer zones in Galwan Valley and on the north bank of Pangong Lake, and have disengaged on the south bank and in Gogra. This temporary arrangement has helped prevent the recurrence of clashes, but with past agreements in disarray, a longer term understanding to keep the peace still eludes both sides. Recent incidents in Uttarakhand, and a continued military build-up in the Eastern Sector, underline the pressing need for reaching one. Mr. Misri suggested a way out of this stalemate, saying “it cannot be that only one side’s concerns are of relevance...” and acknowledging that “safeguarding territorial integrity and national security holds equal value for both sides.” He maintained both sides still had the space to cooperate on issues including tackling the pandemic, concerns about terrorism in the region and the situation in Afghanistan. Doing so will certainly build trust. Finding that space, however, will hinge on first restoring normalcy along the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/locked-in-a-stalemate/article36815463.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Tentative recovery||Two separate sets of macro-economic data, one from the Government on output at eight core industries in August, and the other, IHS Markit’s survey-based Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for the manufacturing sector from September, collectively point to a recovery in industrial activity. The provisional figures based on the Index of Eight Core Industries spanning coal to fertilizers show overall output grew 11.6% year-on-year in August, helped substantially by expansions in electricity and steel production of 15.3% and 5.1%, respectively. With weights of almost 20% and 18% in the index, respectively, the two industries were also among the only three sectors that posted month-on-month expansions from July, with natural gas being the third. Electricity output was likely buoyed by the lull in monsoon activity in August, as well as an uptick in broader industrial power consumption. And improved Government spending on infrastructure projects ought to have undergirded demand for steel. Refinery products, the largest constituent of the index, recorded 9.1% growth over August 2020 with the gradual easing of the pandemic-related restrictions. However, an almost 9% slump in diesel consumption from the preceding month saw the sector post a 5.5% sequential contraction. Reports on fuel consumption trends from September point to a significant slowdown last month, a less-than-encouraging sign especially when one considers the renewed uptrend in the pump prices of automobile fuels. Also, with rains in September exceeding the long-period average for the month by a sizeable margin, power demand too was hit last month. The more contemporary September PMI data show factory orders and output expanded faster than in the preceding month, with the PMI reading of 53.7 outpacing August’s 52.3. Manufacturers reported favourable market conditions and improvements in sales volumes, with makers of consumer goods leading the pack. While some of the increase in orders at manufacturing companies is clearly linked to improved demand for Indian products in the international markets, a trend reflected in the more than 21% jump in merchandise exports last month, a substantial part is tied to an inventory build-up in view of the festival season. IHS Markit’s survey of manufacturing firms, however, also reveals a lack of fresh hiring for the second straight month as well as price pressures from high fuel and transport costs. With the formal manufacturing industry seemingly wary of adding more employees, and the MSME sector still struggling to recover from the COVID-19 hit, the lack of employment and reduced household incomes are bound to constrain consumer spending. The current quarter holds the key to determining how durable the recovery could turn out to be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tentative-recovery/article36815464.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Moon Rover not for sale||The Lunar Roving Vehicle (LRV) left on the moon by the Apollo-15 astronauts has not yet been announced for sale, an official of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) informed a prospective buyer. The $8 millions (Rs. 6 crores) — Lunar Rover “is still in the United States Government inventory and has not yet been declared surplus equipment,” Apollo Spacecraft Manager, Mr. James McDivitt, wrote to Mr. Don Lloyd, a security man in the Boeing Company, who had offered NASA $100 (Rs. 750) for the buggy in last August. The Boeing Company had designed the Moon Rover. “My bid was as where is,” Mr. Lloyd said yesterday adding “may be if the Russians get there, I could sell it to them.” Mr. Lloyd said although his offer was made in fun, he would have gone through with the deal if NASA were willing. Mr. McDivitt replied that the vehicle, even if sold, would be hard to physically acquire since it was still on the moon. However, “you will certainly be contacted if it is ever for sale to an individual,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/moon-rover-not-for-sale/article36815474.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver lose sheen||Precious metals lost their sheen and closed on a weak note at the end of September. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar, on expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve could soon begin winding down its economic support measures, played a key role in denting sentiment towards precious metals. As a result, Comex gold fell 3.36% to settle at $1,757 an ounce at the end of September. Comex silver, too, closed on a weak note. The white metal dropped 8.2% to close at $22.05 an ounce. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures dropped 1.58% to close at Rs. 46,521 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures witnessed a steeper cut of 5.9% to settle at Rs. 59,617 per kg at the end of September. The sharp fall in price in September has confirmed the short-term weak trend in Comex gold. The recovery witnessed in the earlier months comes across as a pull-back within an overall downtrend. The short-term outlook for Comex gold is negative. The price is likely to fall to the immediate target range of $1,660-1,670. A move below $1,670 would lend further weakness and could push the price lower to the next target of $1,610-1,625. Unless Comex gold moves above $1,840, there would be a strong case for a fall to $1,660 and lower. Comex silver price has fallen sharply which has pushed the price way below its short-term moving average. The price could snap back towards the short-term moving average. While this short-term support is a possibility, the overall trend remains weak. The price is likely to resume its downtrend on the completion of the anticipated pull-back rally. Until Comex silver moves above $25, there would be a case for a fall to the $19.75-20 zone. MCX gold is still confined within the broad range of Rs. 43,500-49,000. The near-term trend depends on the direction of the breakout from this range. Above Rs. 49,000, gold price could head to the short-term target of Rs. 51,300-51,500. On the other hand, a close below Rs. 43,500 would be a sign of weakness and could push the price to Rs. 41,800-42,000. As anticipated last month, MCX silver ruled weak, and the price almost dropped to the then mentioned target price of Rs. 57,500-58,000 range. The short-term outlook for silver remains weak and a slide to Rs. 54,500-55,000 appears likely. This view would be invalidated if the price rises past Rs. 63,900.   (The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. The views and opinion featured in this column is based on the analysis of short-term price movement in gold and silver futures at Comex and the Multi Commodity Exchange of India.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-lose-sheen/article36815460.ece
04 October 2021||LIMA,||Indian teams claim four golds||Manu Bhaker and Sarabjot Singh beat teammates Shikha Narwal and Naveen 16-12 to clinch the mixed air pistol gold in the junior World Championship here. The trio of Manu, Rhythm Sangwan, and Shikha beat Belarus 16-12 to win the women’s team event. India claimed the air pistol men’s team gold through Sarabjot Singh, Naveen and Shiva Narwal by edging Belarus 16-14. Great show In the men’s air rifle team gold contest, Dhanush Srikanth, Rajpreet Singh and Paarth Makhija outplayed a strong USA 16-6. There was no denying the mixed air rifle gold to the Tokyo Olympics silver and gold-winning Mary Carolynn Tucker and William Shaner, even though Atmika Gupta and Rajpreet Singh fought hard before losing 17-15. Atmika also won the team silver along in partnership with Nisha Kanwar and Zeena Khitta in the women’s air rifle final against Hungary. With four gold and three silvers on the day, Indian jumped to the top of the table with six gold, six silver and two bronze medals. USA with two gold and two silver less slipped to second place.  The results: Men: Air pistol team: 1. India (Sarabjot Singh, Naveen, Shiva Narwal) 16 (578) 1748; 2. Belarus (Abdul-Aziz Kurdzi, Ivan Kazak, Uladzislau Dzemesh) 14 (576) 1719; 3. USA 16 (560) 1694. Air rifle team: 1. India (Dhanush Srikanth, Rajpreet Singh, Paarth Makhija) 16 (624.5) 1886.9; 2. USA (William Shaner, Rylan William Kissell, John Blanton) 6 (622.5) 1874.2; 3. Spain 16 (618.1) 1870.9.   Women: Air pistol team: 1. India (Rhythm Sangwan, Manu Bhaker, Shikha Narwal) 16 (569) 1722; 2. Belarus (Aliaksandra Piatrova, Zoya Dasko, Alina Nestsiarovich) 12 (568) 1674; 3. Ukraine 16 (566) 1695.   Air rifle team: 1. Hungary (Eszter Meszaros, Eszter Denes, Lea Horvath) 16 (623.0 (1876.9); 2. India (Nisha Kanwar, Zeena Khitta, Atmika Gupta) 14 (622.4) 1882.7; 3. France 16 (621.4) 1865.4.   Mixed: Air pistol: 1. India (Manu Bhaker, Sarabjot Singh) 16 (386) 583; 2. India-2 (Shikha Narwal, Naveen) 12 (385) 580; 3. Romania 17 (382) 571.   Air rifle: 1. USA (Mary Carolynn Tucker, William Shaner) 17 (419.9) 625.7; 2. India-2 (Atmika Gupta, Rajpreet Singh) 15 (418.5) 626.8; 3. Italy 16 (416.2) 628.1 .   Indian jumped to the top of the table with six gold, six silver and two bronze medals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-teams-claim-four-golds/article36815838.ece
04 October 2021||Carrara,||India takes bragging rights from drawn Day-Night Test||India Women put up a highly commendable performance, dominating Australia for the better part of its maiden Day-Night Test, which ended in a draw primarily due to inclement weather on the first two days. Collapse Resuming at 143 for three, Ellyse Perry (68 not out) and Ashleigh Gardner (51) went on to share an 89-run stand before the Indian pacers triggered a batting collapse, reducing Australia to 241 for nine from 208 for four. What followed was an interesting declaration by Meg Lanning at the stroke of dinner. India, 377 in the first innings, played 35 overs in the second before declaring after tea to set Australia an improbable 272-run target in just 32 overs. Shafali Verma made a fine 52 off 91 balls while Punam Raut remained unbeaten on 41 off 62 balls. The target was virtually out of reach for Australia which lost Alyssa Healy and Beth Mooney cheaply. Australia was 36 for two in 15 overs before both teams shook hands to settle for a draw. As per rules of multi-format series, both teams gained for two points. The series score stands at 6-4 in Australia’s favour. More than 80 overs were lost due to weather over the first two days, making a draw the most likely outcome of the four-day match. India could have declared at tea with a 242-run lead and 41 overs to bowl, but didn’t want to leave anything to chance and took the safety-first approach. India came into the game with only two practice sessions with the pink ball, but outplayed the Australians in all departments of the first Test between the two sides in 15 years.  Smriti played well, her hundred was fabulous. All our seamers bowled well too Mithali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-takes-bragging-rights-from-drawn-day-night-test/article36815761.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI,||No stopping Muddappa||Bengaluru’s Hemanth Muddappa (Mantra Racing) completed a double in the second round of the MMSC FMSCI National Motorcycle drag racing championship, which concluded at the MMRT, here on Sunday. Muddappa, the reigning National champion, topped the Super Sport above-1051cc category astride a Suzuki Hayabusa which attained a top speed of 231kmph, as he overcame fellow-Bengalureans Hafizullah Khan and Vignesh Purushotham. Later, Muddappa won in the Super Sport 851-1050cc category riding a BMW S1000, ahead of arch-rival Mohd. Riyaz of Hyderabad and Bengaluru’s Sugan Prasad.  The results (all 4-Stroke):   Above 1051cc (Super Sport): 1. Hemanth Muddappa (Mantra Racing, Bengaluru) 08.061; 2. Hafizullah Khan (Bengaluru) 08.396; 3. Vignesh Purushotham (Bengaluru) 08.409.   851-1050cc (Super Sport): 1. Hemanth Muddappa (07.914); 2. Mohd. Riyaz (Hyderabad) 08.058; 3. Sugan Prasad (Bengaluru) 08.421.   361-550cc (Super Sport Indian): 1. Aiyaz Rem (Bengaluru) 12.368; 2. Yogeshwaran (Speed Up Racing, Chennai) 12.620; 3. D Annish Samson (Speed Up Racing, Bengaluru) 12.658.   226-360cc (Super Sport Indian): 1. Bharath Raj (Chennai) 12.427; 2. Mohammed Shakir (Chennai) 12.655; 3. Yogeshwaran (Chennai) 13.014.   Up to 165cc (Super Sport Indian): 1. S. Madhan Kumar (Chennai) 13.826; 2. Kevin Kannan (Chennai) 13.990; 3. S. Kannan (Chennai) 14.472 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-stopping-muddappa/article36815836.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Bowlers, Gill script crucial win for KKR||Sunrisers Hyderabad’s season of misery continued as it slipped to a six-wicket defeat against Kolkata Knight Riders — its 10th loss — in Dubai on Sunday. With KKR’s Net Run Rate third-best among eight teams, it can reach the playoffs if it beats Rajasthan Royals. Mumbai Indians has to win its remaining games by big margins to qualify. KKR’s 116-run chase got off to a quiet start. Shubman Gill’s first scoring shot was a sweetly timed drive down the ground for four. Next ball, the opener nearly got caught at short-cover but Priyam Garg couldn’t get his fingers underneath the ball. Gill then welcomed debutant Umran Malik into the attack with a boundary. Malik cranked up good pace, clocking the fastest ball (151.03kph) by an Indian in this edition. Venkatesh Iyer was caught for eight off Jason Holder after adding 23 for the opening wicket. Rashid Khan was introduced into the attack in the seventh over and removed Rahul Tripathi. KKR crawled to 51 for two after 11 overs when Gill, who was going at less than run a ball, broke the shackles. He hit Holder for two fours in the 12th over before smashing two successive boundaries off Malik in the 13th. Gill brought up his fifty with a four to deep midwicket. By the time he fell for 57, SRH’s fate was sealed. Earlier, Hyderabad got off to the worst possible start after winning the toss. Wriddhiman Saha was given out lbw in the first over. The batter didn’t review but replays showed the ball was missing the stumps. It was soon 16 for two when Roy hit straight to mid-on. At the other end, Kane Williamson was playing a different game altogether. He took apart Shivam Mavi in the final over of the PowerPlay, hitting four fours. A scorching drive through cover stood out. But the Kiwi’s stay was cut short when Shakib Al Hasan, playing his first game of the second leg, caught him short of the crease with a direct hit. On a slow deck, SRH’s inexperienced middle-order struggled against the KKR spinners as only six boundaries were scored after the PowerPlay. The KKR spin trio of Shakib, Sunil Narine and Varun Chakravarthy went for a combined 58 in 12 overs.  KKR wins by six wickets Gill’s 51-ball 57 powered KKR to a six-wicket win. Morgan’s men scored 119-4 in 19.4 overs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kkr-bowlers-restrict-srh-to-115/article36815771.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Royal Challengers book playoffs berth||Royal Challengers Bangalore sealed a playoff berth following a six-run win over Punjab Kings at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Sunday. After Glenn Maxwell (57, 33b, 3x4, 4x6) powered RCB to 164, PBKS fell short despite the best efforts of Mayank Agarwal (57, 42b, 6x4, 2x6) and K.L. Rahul (39, 35b, 1x4, 2x6), with Yuzvendra Chahal impressing for RCB yet again (4-0-29-3). PBKS’ playoff hopes now depend on its final match against Chennai Super Kings and results elsewhere. For a while, PBKS seemed on course in the chase. Mayank and Rahul collected 49 runs from the PowerPlay, and in the 10th over, Mayank started to take flight, hitting Chahal for two boundaries, before sending Shahbaz Ahmed soaring into the stands. Double blow But Shahbaz broke the 91-run partnership by having Rahul caught at short third-man. Chahal’s double blow in the 16th over decisively turned the match in RCB’s favour, with Mayank caught at short third-man and Sarfaraz Khan bowled for a golden duck. Harshal Patel and George Garton then bolted the door with a few tight overs. Earlier, RCB’s total owed much to the 40-ball, 73-run fourth-wicket partnership between Maxwell and A.B. de Villiers (23, 18b, 1x4, 2x6).  Virat Kohli (25, 24b) and Devdutt Padikkal (40, 38b, 4x4, 2x6) scored 55 in the PowerPlay, but were lucky as Rahul missed stumping Kohli and dropped Padikkal in one Ravi Bishnoi over. The leggie was also unlucky when the third umpire did not give Padikkal out caught behind despite ‘ultra edge’ showing a clear spike when the ball passed the glove. Moises Henriques’ introduction changed matters as he bowled four outstanding overs for 12 runs and accounted for Kohli, Padikkal and surprise No. 3 Dan Christian. Max takes over However, the genius of Maxwell soon took over. He hit Harpreet Brar and Bishnoi for four sixes in the arc between deep square-leg and long-on and buttressed his swashbuckling form with a superb switch-hit boundary in front of square. He got to his 50 off just 29 balls. The expected end-overs flourish didn’t arrive as Maxwell and de Villiers departed within seven balls of each other. But it didn’t matter eventually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royal-challengers-bangalore-books-playoff-berth/article36815775.ece
04 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bedia sparkles in FC Goa’s triumph||Edu Bedia produced a spectacular finish curling home a free-kick midway in the extra-time as FC Goa beat home favourite Mohammedan Sporting to win its maiden Durand Cup title, at the Salt Lake Stadium here on Sunday. The two teams were locked goalless at end of regulation time before the Spanish playmaker came up with a brilliant finish in 105th minute to decide the title. The match generally remained placid as the local favourite, Sporting, failed to find the right combination that could effectively challenge the defensive orientation of FC Goa. The Goa side looked more proactive in its approach and breached the Sporting box on a few occasions. The Gaurs opened up the Sporting defence in the 40th minute as Devendra Murgaokar and Sanson Pereira combined on the left flank to release Romario Jesuraj on top of the box. The midfielder replied with a wayward attempt spoiling a good chance for Goa to gain the lead. Soggy turf The heavy underfoot conditions also contributed in slowing up the game as the teams struggled to cope with the sogginess of the turf. The action continued to languish mostly in the centre of the park after the change of ends with neither team showing the eagerness to press for attacks. Goa looked more organised but that did not translate into a goal as Sporting packed its defence with more men. Edu Bedia finally brought an end to the listless exchanges. Serbian midfielder Nikola Stojanovic had a chence to equalise in the 118th minute but his fine attempt was saved by the Goa goalkeeper Naveen Kumar.  The result:   Mohammedan Sporting 0 lost to FC Goa 1 (Edu Bedia 105).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bedia-sparkles-in-fc-goas-triumph/article36815821.ece
04 October 2021||MALE,||India begins against Bangladesh||Title favourite India begins its SAFF football Championships campaign against Bangladesh on Monday, knowing fully well that it is just “a little bit superior” than its opponent despite the domination in the regional tournament. India has won the tournament seven times out of 12 editions, but by the admission of captain Sunil Chhetri, every match will be like a “war to fight”. Difficult side “Bangladesh are very difficult side. In the two matches we played against Bangladesh in the last few months, it has been very tough,” Chhetri said. “All the games in the tournament will be tough. Despite a little bit of superiority, every game will be like a war to fight. We have to fight to the last minute. We cannot play 90%.” Head coach Igor Stimac has not minced words in declaring that India is the favourite to win , saying “we will justify ourselves”.  Stimac made no secret that he will be making the most out of the ATKMB and Bengaluru FC footballers, who had played in Maldives earlier in the AFC Cup.  Chhetri said he doesn’t want to lose any game for the country. “When you are young you play for a lot of things. I’ve played over 100 games for India, I don’t have another 100 and I want to make the most of all the games I have left. I want to win if I am playing for my country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-begins-against-bangladesh/article36815825.ece
04 October 2021||LONDON,||City fights back to hold Liverpool||Real Madrid’s stuttering form continued on Sunday when it was stunned 2-1 away at Espanyol in the LaLiga. A goal in either half from Raul De Tomas and Aleix Vidal was enough for Espanyol to secure full points. Carlo Ancelotti’s side is without a win in three games in all competitions but remains top of the table on 17 points, ahead of city rival Atletico Madrid on goal difference. Meanwhile on Saturday, Thomas Lemar and Luis Suarez heaped more misery on his old club as Atletico claimed a 2-0 victory over the Catalans. Tottenham eased the pressure on Nuno Espirito Santo as Matt Targett’s own goal capped an improved display in its 2-1 win against Aston Villa on Sunday. Spurs had lost their last three Premier League games and were wobbling again when Ollie Watkins cancelled out Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg’s opener. Locatelli strikes Manuel Locatelli struck late to earn Juventus a 1-0 win over Torino in the Turin derby as the ‘Old Lady’ stretched its winning run to four games in all competitions. Inter Milan substitute Edin Dzeko equalised a minute after coming on before winning the decisive penalty as the champion earned a 2-1 comeback win over Sassuolo.  The results:   Premier League: Crystal Palace 2 (Olise 61, Schlupp 72) drew with Leicester 2 (Iheanacho 31, Vardy 37); Tottenham 2 (Hojbjerg 27, Targett 71-og) bt Aston Villa 1 (Watkins 67); West Ham 1 (Bowen 80) lost to Brentford 2 (Mbeumo 20, Wissa 90+4).   Serie A: Bologna 3 (Barrow 14, Theate 17, Hickey 68) bt Lazio 0; Sampdoria 3 (Stryger Larsen 24-og, Quagliarella 48-pen, Candreva 69) drew with Udinese 3 (Pereyra 15, Belo 44, Forestieri 82); Verona 4 (Simeone 4, Faraoni 15, Caprari 42, Bessa 71) bt Spezia 0.   Bundesliga: Mainz 1 (Ingvartsen 40) lost to Union Berlin 2 (Awoniyi 69, 73).   Ligue 1: Rennes 2 (Laborde 45, Tait 46) Paris Saint-Germain 0.   Saturday: Premier League: Burnley 0 drew with Norwich 0; Leeds 1 (Llorente 18) bt Watford 0; Wolves 2 (Hwang 20, 58) bt Newcastle 1 (Hendrick 41); Brighton 0 drew with Arsenal 0.   Serie A: Salernitana 1 (Djuric 66) bt Genoa 0; Torino 0 lost to Juventus 1 (Locatelli 86); Sassuolo 1 (Berardi 22-pen) lost to Inter Milan 2 (Dzeko 58, Martinez 78-pen).   LaLiga: Cadiz 0 drew with Valencia 0; Atletico Madrid 2 (Lemar 23, Suarez 44) bt Barcelona 0.   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 3 (Silva 69, Nkunku 73, 78) VfL Bochum 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atletico-compounds-barcas-woes/article36815765.ece
04 October 2021||LONDON,||Jepkosgei and Lemma run to glory||Kenya’s Joyciline Jepkosgei won the women’s London Marathon on Sunday as Ethiopia’s Sisay Lemma triumphed in the men’s race in the first full-scale staging of the event since the pandemic. Brigid Kosgei, aiming to become the first woman to win three consecutive London Marathon titles since Germany’s Katrin Doerre in 1994, came fourth. Personal best Jepkosgei won in a personal-best time of 2hr 17min 43sec. Ethiopia’s Degitu Azimeraw finished second in 2:17.58 and compatriot Ashete Bekere was third in 2:18.18. Lemma failed to finish the Olympic marathon in Japan in August but bounced back to win in the British capital in 2:04.01. Kenya’s Vincent Kipchumba finished the runner-up for the second year running in 2:04.28 and Ethiopia’s Mosinet Geremew came third with a time of 2:04.41. The London Marathon returned to normality for the first time since 2019 after being held without amateur runners or spectators last year due to COVID-19 restrictions. The pandemic forced the event to be moved from April to October in 2020, with a small number of elite runners completing laps around St James’s Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jepkosgei-and-lemma-run-to-glory/article36815828.ece
04 October 2021||DOHA,||Two Indian pairs move into last four||Sharath Kamal-G. Sathiyan and Harmeet Desai-Manav Thakkar stormed into the men’s doubles semifinals of the Asian table tennis championships here on Sunday, assuring India of two more bronze medals. In women’s singles, Ayhika Mukherjee, Sutirtha Mukherjee, Archana Kamath and Sreeja Akula lost in the round of 32. Sutirtha and Ayhika had lost in the doubles quarterfinals to the Japanese duo of Miyu Nagasaki and Minami Ando. Sharath Kamal lost to Lee Sangsu of Korea 8-11, 8-11, 9-11 in the men's singles quarterfinals. With Sharath’s loss, the Indian interest in men’s singles came to an end.  Other results: Men: (round of 16): Sharath Kamal bt Abdulwahhab Mohammed (Qat) 11-8, 12-10, 11-6; Kazuhiro Yoshimura (Jpn) bt G. Sathiyan 11-9, 6-11, 11-6, 11-9.   Men: Doubles (quarterfinals): Harmeet Desai & Manav Thakkar bt Noshad Alamiyan & Nima Alamian (IRI) 12-10, 11-5, 11-6; Sharath Kamal & G. Sathiyan bt Chew Zhe Yu & Clarence & Beh Kun Ting (SGP) 11-9, 11-7, 12-10.   Women (round-of-32): Saki Shibata (Jpn) bt Ayhika Mukherjee 11-6, 11-5, 11-3; Doo Hoi Kem (HKG) bt Sreeja Akula 11-8, 12-10, 11-4; Minami Ando (Jpn) bt Sutirtha Mukherjee 9-11, 11-6, 11-7,11-7; Yubin Shin (Kor) bt Archana Kamath 11-3, 14-12, 11-8; Doubles (quarterfinals): Miyu Nagasaki & Minami Ando (Jpn) bt Sutirtha & Ayhika 11-4, 11-5, 4-11, 7-11, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-indian-pairs-in-last-four/article36815779.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chance for youngsters to showcase their talent||It will be a good opportunity for the young Indian players, travelling from across the country, to compete in the National sub-junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex from Monday. With the DCM Shriram group, which has been conducting the Fenesta National championship for many years, opting to stick to the men’s and women’s events only this time, the national federation decided to ensure the continuity by having the junior events spread over a fortnight. The under-16 and 14 events for boys and girls will be staged this week, and will be followed by the National junior championship featuring the under-18 events next week. The Fenesta National championship for men and women is scheduled to be held from October 25. Lakshmi Prabha, Suhitha Maruri, Ruma Gaikaiwari and Madhurima Sawant are the top four seeds in the under-16 girls’ event which has a bye in the first round for the 16 seeded players in a draw of 64. Dkash Prasad, Rushil Khosla, Vansh Nndal and Arunava Majumder are the top four players in the under-16 boys’ event. Riya Sachdeva, Samiksha Dabas, Thaniya Sarai and Saumrita Verma are the top four seeds in the under-14 girls’ event. Rethin Pranav is the top seed in the under-14 boys’ event, and is followed by Kriish Tyagi, Tejas Ahuja and Samprit Sharma. The organisers will be following strict COVID protocols to ensure the safety for all the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-for-youngsters-to-showcase-their-talent/article36815840.ece
04 October 2021||CHENNAI:,||Santhosh, Kowshika reign||R. Santhosh Kumar (Winwin) and V. Kowshika (Jawahar) clinched the men’ s and women’s singles titles n the MSSTTA-Tamizhaga State table tennis championships on Sunday. Olympian boxer Devarajan and S. Sagayaraj of MSSTTA gave away the prizes.  The results (finals):   Men: R. Santhosh Kumar (Winwin) bt S. Abinash Prasannaji (Ellis Mdu) 11-5, 12-10, 13-11.   Women: V. Kowshika (Jawahar) bt B. Kavya Shree (Jawahar) 11-6, 14-12, 11-4   Boys: u-17: P.B. Abhinandh (Chennai Achievers) bt S. Tharun (MCC) 9-11, 11-3, 11-9, 11-8.; u-19: S. Tharun (MCC) bt P.B. Abhinandh (Chennai Achievers) 8-11, 13-11, 11-9, 11-7.   Girls: u-17: B. Kavyashree (Jawahar) bt N. Sharvani (Mylapore Club) 11- 5, 11- 9, 11-5; u-19: B. Kavyashree (Jawahar) bt M. Nithyashree (Chennai Achievers) 11-8, 4-11, 11-8, 11- 4.   Corporate: J. Arunkumar (Amman Granites) bt G. Prasanna Kumar (Naukri.com) 9-11, 12-10, 10-12, 11-13, 13-11 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santhosh-kowshika-reign/article36815897.ece
04 October 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Seven-wicket win for Hyderabad||Hyderabad recorded a seven-wicket win over Uttar Pradesh in the BCCI women’s (under-19) one-day cricket championship at Rajkot on Sunday. Batting first, UP was skittled out for 87 in 38 overs with Ishita Koduri claiming three wickets. In reply, Hyderabad achieved the target in the 22nd over thanks to a fine knock by G. Trisha.  The scores:   Uttar Pradesh 87 in 38 overs (Sonali Singh 39 n.o., Ishita Koduri 3/27) lost to Hyderabad 88/3 in 21.4 overs (G. Trisha 39).  Baaliyan claims five Satyam Baaliyan (five for 31) helped Uttarakhand score a six-wicket win over Baroda in the BCCI Vinoo Mankad Trophy (under-19) one-day cricket championship on Sunday.  The scores:   At Hyderabad (Group D): Kerala 120 in 42.5 overs (Harshdeep Singh 5/24, Yashpaawanjot Singh 3/17) lost to Punjab 121/1 in 34.1 overs (Jaskaranvir Singh Paul 54 n.o., Rushil Shrivastava 40).   Bengal 185 in 43.5 overs (Ayush Kumar Singh 82, Rahul Chowdhary 30, Vivek Kumar 4/25, Garv Sangwan 3/25) lost to Haryana 189/6 in 43.1 overs (Dinesh Bana 50 n.o., Arun Kumar 50 n.o.).   Baroda 81 in 28.2 overs (Satyam Baaliyan 5/31, Naman Mingwal 3/14) lost to Uttarakhand 82/4 in 17.2 overs (Shaswat Dangwal 32 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/seven-wicket-win-for-hyderabad/article36816103.ece
04 October 2021||Chennai:,||Tirunelveli emerges champion||TDSA Tirunelveli bagged the overall championships with 181 points in the Tamil Nadu State aquatics meet, which concluded here on Sunday. Two new meet records were set.  The results:   Men (winners only): 100m butterfly: D. Adhithya (TSPA) 56.32s (NMR) (OR: N. Arvind (Waves) 57.00, 2016).   100m freestyle: D. Adithya (TSPA) 52.76 (NMR) (OR: M.S. Pavan Gupta (SDAT Dolphin) 53.54, 2019).   Team championships: Men: 1. SDAT Velachery (107 pts), 2. TDSA Tirunelveli (106), 3. Turtles (68).   Women: 1. SDAT Dolphin (96), 2. TDSA Tirunelveli (75), 3. SG Swim School (71).   Individual championship: Men: 1. Vinayak Vijay (SDAT Velachery) 30.   Women: 1. Sakthi Balakrishnan (ANSA Dubai) 35.   Overall championship: 1. TDSA Tirunelveli (181), 2. SDAT Velachery (167), 3. SDAT Dolphin (139) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tdsa-tirunelveli-emerges-the-champion/article36815903.ece
04 October 2021||Kochi,||KBSA to open up badminton further||After successfully conducting the State sub-junior inter-district team championship in Thrissur last week, the Kerala Badminton (Shuttle) Association has decided to open up the sport further. After the State senior (Oct. 17 & 18) and State junior (Oct. 19 & 20) inter-district championships in Ernakulam as planned earlier, the KBSA has now announced that it will conduct ranking tournaments in the junior, sub-junior and senior categories in October and November. The KBSA will also hold the State individual championships in the senior, junior and sub-junior age groups in November and December and the exact dates will announced later. These were decided during a KBSA meeting on Sunday.  The KBSA calendar (from October): State senior inter-district championship (Ernakulam, Oct. 17 & 18); State junior inter-district: (Ernakulam, Oct. 19 & 20); Ranking tournaments: Junior under-17 & u-19 (Alappuzha, Oct. 30 to Nov. 2); Sub-junior under-11, u-13 & u-15 (Vaikom, Kottayam, Nov. 6-10); Senior (Thodupuzha, Idukki, Nov. 6-10).   State individual championships: Sub-junior u-11, u-13, u-15 (Manjeri, Malappuram, Nov.-Dec.). Junior u-17, u-19 (Kozhikode, Nov.-Dec.); Senior (Kollam, Nov.-Dec.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kbsa-to-open-up-badminton-further/article36816151.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||CSK, DC to decide first among equals||Having sealed their playoff berths, Chennai Super Kings and Delhi Capitals will battle it out at the Dubai International Stadium on Monday for a place in the top two. The two teams have been the standout performers in the league with 18 points each from 12 games. Finishing in the top two affords a team a second chance in the playoffs. CSK ahead on NRR While CSK is ahead on the table on better Net Run Rate, Capitals walk into the match as favourites. Capitals have won their last three encounters and boast a potent pace line-up that can trouble the Super Kings’ batters. Capitals, who finished runner’s-up last year, will look to maintain that advantage considering these teams could end up occupying the top two positions in the table and meet in the first Qualifier. So a win here could give a psychological edge going into the next stage of the tournament. While Capitals come into the match on the back of a win against defending champion Mumbai Indians, Super Kings were outplayed by Rajasthan Royals on Saturday.  The Chennai side rested Deepak Chahar and Dwayne Bravo in the previous match and dearly missed their services. It will be interesting to see if the CSK management continues to manage the workload of key players or decides to field a full-strength side to get back to winning ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-capitals-meet-to-decide-first-among-equals/article36815769.ece
04 October 2021||Dubai,||Indian women’s football team faces Tunisia||An easy win over lower-ranked United Arab Emirates marking its first victory of the year, an upbeat Indian women’s football team takes on Tunisia in another international friendly match here on Monday. Manisha Kalyan, Pyari Xaxa, Sweety Devi and Anju Tamang scored for India on Saturday in the team’s first overseas friendly since Thomas Dennerby took charge. The friendly match was a part of preparations for the AFC Asian Cup, which will be hosted by India in January-February. The win against 100th ranked UAE was India’s first of the year. The Blue Tigress have been winless in the five previous matches this year, though all of them were against higher ranked European sides. “It was definitely a good start for the girls. “ That kind of a win helps to get some useful self-confidence into the players,” said Dennerby after his first international game with the Indian team. Monday’s opponents are ranked 77th in the FIFA charts while India is at the 57th spot. Looking ahead to the game, Dennerby feels that though it will be a tougher challenge for the girls, the aim remains to earn a victory. “I guess it is going to be a bit tougher against Tunisia, but we always try to win, and that is just what we will try to do,” said Dennerby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-womens-football-team-faces-tunisia/article36815823.ece
04 October 2021||SOFIA,||Jannik Sinner defends his crown||Italy’s Jannik Sinner swept past Frenchman Gael Monfils to successfully defend his Sofia title on Sunday. The top seed won 6-3, 6-4 to claim his fourth career title as he sights a spot in the season-ending ATP finale in November. He will move into 10th place in the race for the eight-man Turin field. Sinner now has three titles in 2021 after success in the Great Ocean Road Open and Washington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jannik-sinner-defends-his-crown/article36815834.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||United we top!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-we-top/article36815900.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||This knock was much needed: Dube||Rajasthan Royals all-rounder Shivam Dube made his selection count with a brilliant unbeaten 64 to help his side defeat Chennai Super Kings by seven wickets on Saturday. “This knock was much needed for me as well as my team. We need to qualify and if we play well (in) the other two matches, we are going to qualify,” said Dube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-knock-was-much-needed-dube/article36815772.ece
04 October 2021||NAGPUR:,||Delhi beats TN||Delhi defeated Tamil Nadu by 42 runs in an Elite-B fourth round match of the BCCI-women’s u-19 cricket tournament in Nagpur on Sunday. Due to rain, the match was curtailed to 20 overs per side.  The scores: Delhi 132/7 in 20 overs (Riya Kondal 27, Tanisha Singh 29, Riya Shokeen 33) bt TN 90/7 in 20 overs (M. S. Aishwarya 34) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-beats-tn/article36815904.ece
04 October 2021||Oslo,||Ravinder rallies to make bronze playoff||Ravinder pulled off a sensational come-from-behind ‘victory by fall’ against Bulgaria’s Georgi Valentinov Vangelov after trailing by a 0-8 margin in the wrestling World Championship repechage round to enter the 61kg bronze play-off here on Sunday. He will now fight for bronze against Armenia’s Arsen Harutyunyan, the European championship bronze medallist.  Other Indians, however, could not go beyond the pre-quarterfinals.   The results: 61kg (repechage): Ravinder bt Georgi Valentinov Vangelov (Bul).   Pre-quarterfinals: 57kg: Pankaj Malik lost to Suleyman Atli (Tur); 65kg: Rohit lost to Zagir Shakhiev (Rus); 92kg: Pruthviraj Patil lost to Osman Nurmagomedov (Aze).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravinder-in-bronze-playoff/article36815842.ece
04 October 2021||Visakhapatnam:,||Chhattisgarh beats Kerala||Chhattisgarh defeated Kerala in the BCCI women’s Elite (under-19) one-day cricket championship on Sunday.  The scores: At Visakhapatnam & Vizianagaram:   Chattisgarh 202/3 in 50 overs (Aishwarya Singh 54, Kumud Sahu 73, Kriti Gupta 33 n.o.) bt Kerala 201 in 48.5 overs (Ananya K. Pradeep 50, Mahak Narwase 4/40, Aishwarya Singh 3/43).     Madhya Pradesh 77 in 44 overs (Nrupa 4/27) lost to Baroda 81/5 in 35.3 overs.   Bihar 144/9 in 50 overs (Yashita Singh 64) lost to Haryana 146/2 in 41.3 overs (Sonia Mendhiya 53, Amandeep Kaur 55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhattisgarh-beats-kerala/article36816281.ece
04 October 2021||BENGALURU,||I-League Qualifiers from today||The 2021 I-League Qualifiers will kick off at the Bangalore Football Stadium on Monday with the Group-A match between Rajasthan United Football Club and Ryntih Sports and Cultural Club. Local club FC Bengaluru United and Madan Maharaj FC are the other teams in Group-A with ARA FC, Corbett FC, Delhi Football Club, Kenkre FC and Kerala United FC in Group-B. The top two teams from each group will move into the semifinal league phase. Hyderya Sports Kashmir FC, the fifth team in Group-A, was withdrawn last week after its mandatory bank guarantee’s authenticity was called into question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-league-qualifiers-from-today/article36815822.ece
04 October 2021||KOCHI:,||Alfin guides Ernakulam to quarterfinals||Alfin Walter scored twice as host Ernakulam defeated Wayanad 3-2 and entered the quarterfinals of the 57th Kerala State senior inter-district football championship at the Maharaja's Stadium here on Sunday. In another pre-quarterfinal, Malappuram beat Idukki 2-1. On Saturday, last year's runner-up Thrissur edged past Thiruvananthapuram 7-6 through the tie-breaker and entered the semifinal. The teams were 2-2 at the end of the regulation period. Kannur also made the last-four stage after a 3-1 victory over Kasargod.  The results:   Pre-quarterfinals: Ernakulam 3 (Alfin Walter 15 & 50; Joseph Sunny 33) bt Wayanad 2 (Muhammed Shafnad 37, Ajad Saheen 80); Malappuram 2 (K. Junain 23, Muhammed Nishan 84) bt Idukki 1 (Aslam Ali 74).   Saturday's matches (quarterfinals): Thrissur 7 (J. Bibin 13, J. Jenson og-88) bt Thiruvananthapuram 6 (Eldhose George 70, Lijo Gilbert pen-75) via tiebreaker (full time 2-2); Kannur 4 (P. Vishnu 23, Safad 32 & 65; Jyothish 69) bt Kasargod 1 (P.V. Sudhan 38) .      Punjab crushed Kerala by nine wickets in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy under-19 cricket match in Hyderabad on Sunday. Punjab bowlers Harshdeep Singh (5/23) and Yashpaawanjot Singh (3/17) skittled out Kerala for 120. Jaskaranvir Singh struck an unbeaten half-century as Punjab cruised to a nine-wicket win.  The scores: Kerala 120 in 42.5 overs (Harshdeep Singh 5/23, Yashpaawanjot Singh 3/17) lost to Punjab 121/1 in 34.1 overs (Jaskaranvir Singh Paul 54 n.o., Rushik Shrivastava 40) .        Chhattisgarh survived a late fightback from Kerala to pull off a one-run win in the under-19 women’s cricket tournament in Visakhapatnam on Sunday. Chasing 203 for a win, Ananya K. Pradeep (50) with the help of the lower order launched a spirited fightback after Kerala slipped to 145/7. After Ananya’s dismissal, the last-wicket pair of Aleena and Nithya added 17 runs before Mamta dismissed the former.  The scores: Chhattisgarh 202/3 in 50 overs (Kumud Sahu 73, Aiswarya Singh 54, Kiriti Gupta 33) bt Kerala 201 in 48.5 overs (Ananya K. Pradeep 50, Mahak Narwase 4/40, Aishwarya Singh 3/43) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alfin-guides-ernakulam-to-quarterfinals/article36816153.ece
04 October 2021||JHAJJAR,||Vanshika, Kashish win titles||Vanshika Choudhary beat Renee Singh 6-2, 6-0 to clinch the title in the Rs. 100,000 AITA women’s tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy. Kashish Bhatia and Ishwari Matere won the doubles title with a hard earned 12-10 triumph in the super tie-break against top seeds Ayushi Singh and Medhavi Singh.   The results: Singles (final): Vanshika Choudhary bt Renee Singh 6-2, 6-0.;   Semifinals: Vanshika Choudhary bt Shefali Arora 6-1, 6-0; Renee Singh bt Kristi Boro 6-3, 6-1; Doubles: Kashish Bhatia & Ishwari Matere bt Ayushi Singh & Medhavi Singh 6-4, 5-7, [12-10].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vanshika-kashish-win-titles/article36815990.ece
04 October 2021||Mysuru:,||Jayanth shines for Karavali Cricketers||An unbeaten 79 by M.R. Jayanth took Karavali Cricketers to a six-wicket win over Kollegal CC in the KSCA Mysore Zone second division league at the SDNR Wadayar grounds here on Saturday.  The scores: Second division: Kollegal CC 200 in 47.4 overs (V. Shivakumar 98, S. Ravicharan 4/42, S.J. Shashank 3/33) lost to Karavali Cricketers 202/4 in 33.2 overs (M.R. Jayanth 79 n.o., S. Rajath 43).   Mysore Underwriters SC 208 in 47.3 overs (K.M. Sharath 41, Imran Khan 31, M. Naveen 35, R. Praharsha 3/27) bt Lucky Boys CC 200 in 47.1 overs (S. Raghu 57, Sarvesh Raju 37, Imran 3/29, Vinuth Kumar 3/25).   Third division: YMCC 184/9 in 50 overs (M.C. Samarth 52 n.o., R.C. Darshan 3/40) lost to Royal CC 185/8 in 28.2 overs (T.L. Venuprasad 90, C.S. Vinay 3/32).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jayanth-shines-for-karavali-cricketers/article36816247.ece
04 October 2021||SITGES (SPAIN),||India finishes with silver||Favourite Russia stopped India 2-0 to regain the FIDE World women’s team chess title on Saturday. For India, the fourth seed, the silver is the first medal in this premier championship.  The results (final): Set 1: Russia bt India 2.5-1.5.   Set 2: India lost to Russia 1-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-finishes-with-silver/article36815759.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Bondage and moksha||The Lord’s Supremacy or Swatantra is beyond all scrutiny and none can ask Him to explain why He punishes or graces a particular jivatma or why He grants moksha. As far as the jivatma is concerned, the cause of bondage is papa. But Vedanta Desika says that whatever stands in the way of moksha is papa and this includes both punya and papa karma, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Both are after all binding chains. If papa is an iron chain, punya is a golden chain since the effects of both will have to be enjoyed. Either way, we will have to be born again and again. There never seems to be an end for this. But there is hope for the jivatma in the Lord’s promise in the Charama Sloka. One can even give up the upasanas that are difficult to follow and merely surrender to Him. He promises the jivatma who seeks His help in surrender to absolve him of all sins and thereby free him from eternal bondage. Only the Lord whose uniqueness is His Absolute Swatantra can make such a promise and also keep it up. Owing to His Supremacy, He is the sole granter of Moksha. Earlier He makes known to Arjuna His Omniscience, Sarvajnatva, when He tells him that He knows about all the countless births taken by the countless jivatmas while the jivatma is ignorant about these matters. He also speaks of the Jiva’s need to be aware of the immortal nature of the soul and understand that the sarira is destructible. The jiva should also learn to differentiate between the chetana, the achetana and Ishwara Tatva. This knowledge will reveal many truths about our worldly existence. For instance, we will come to know that our priority should be moksha rather than worldly enjoyments. His swatantra or absolute independence is the cause for both bondage and moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/bondage-and-moksha/article36815728.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 07:25 IST,||Sudoku — October 4, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-4-2021/article36816512.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Talk it out||I am a mathematics graduate. In college, I joined the dance society and realised it was my passion I joined CAT coaching for my parents but am unable to concentrate. My parents don’t want me to pursue dance because they feel it’s not a respected career. How can I make them understand? Apart from dance, I’m interested in Data Science and have learnt Python and SQL from online courses. Should I do a Master’s in this field or a short-term course? — Divya Dear Divya, This is a tough battle. Have a frank chat with your parents (with or without a mediator who can be objective) and ask what they are worried about — your future or “what will society say”? Understand the exact issue and work around that. Today, some leading choreographers make a fortune with online and physical classes. Special songs, events and occasions are charged separately. It’s a great money churner, if you are good and at the right place at the right time. In the meantime, try and get a Masters underway and a stable job that keeps you financially afloat. Pursue dance only on the weekends till you get a decent break, prove yourself to your family, take time and build your confidence. I’m a 25 year old with an MBA (HR and Logistics). I appeared for the NDA, CDS and other government exams but didn’t clear any. I am now preparing for the NET exams and applying for jobs. I am getting calls from everyone else except HR and Logistics. I am confused. What should I do? — Ajay Dear Ajay, I am sorry that things are not working out in the field of your choice. Is it just bad timing due to the pandemic or do the companies feel that the CV doesn’t do justice? You need to get clarity on the issue. If it is pandemic related, things will get better. I understand that you are preparing for NET, give that your best shot. But, again, should your choice not materialise, take up anything to just get started and then explore a role shift. Identify the gap/s that are not letting you get the break that you want. Work on specific certifications and qualifications and upgrade your existing skillset so that your employability skills are enhanced. I am a PG Diploma student. All my friends from graduation are getting jobs and I am doing nothing. I have a great fear of missing out. Though I was a better student in school and college, I have lagged behind everyone. What should I do? — Harshita Dear Harshita, How can you say that you are not doing anything while you are doing your PG Diploma? What are you missing out on? Wasn’t this course your choice? I understand that your friends are working and perhaps making their own money now and that makes you feel this way. But it is only a matter of time that you will start your professional journey and your career. Start looking out for internships and some job openings side by side. Stay confident and feel good in your own skin! I am a first-year B.Ed in Delhi university. I wish to pursue a teaching career abroad. What do I need to do for this? — Riya Dear Riya, Identify what (subjects), where (countries) and who (age profile of students) you want to teach? There are specialised jobs available overseas across each segment right from kindergarten to school to university teaching, so understand what you want first. Check if TEFL/TESL/ TESOL Certification is needed (should you want to be an English teacher). Do your research. Start a dialogue with the institution on the specific skills that are prerequisites for the application process.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, and suggestions and is not a substitute for long-term therapy. Some issues may need medical intervention.  The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus. thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/talk-it-out/article36815681.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Future leaders in the making||Currently, there are over 1.8 billion young people between the ages of 10 and 24 globally, of which an estimated 20% lives in India. Engaging with this demographic group presents a unique opportunity to bring about dynamic and sustainable change in the country’s socio-economic landscape. In 2018, as part of the UN Youth Policy 2030, UNICEF launched the global Generation Unlimited (Gen-U) movement to meet the urgent needs of young people and to expand learning, skill development, employment and engagement opportunities. The India chapter of Generation Unlimited – YuWaah — was launched in 2019. “By 2030, YuWaah aims to build pathways to aspirational socio-economic opportunities for 100 million young people; facilitate 200 million young people to gain relevant skills for productive lives and the future of work; and partner with 300 million young people as change-makers and create spaces for developing their leadership,” says Dhuwarakha Sriram, Chief of Generation Unlimited (YuWaah), Youth Development and Partnerships at UNICEF India. Towards empowerment YuWaah’s mission is to enable all young people — wherever they may be — to realise their full potential. “We achieve this by partnering with young people themselves; facilitating diverse, equal-footing and multi-stakeholder platforms for listening to and amplifying young people’s voices, perspectives and priorities; optimising investments towards at-scale learning, skilling, leadership and employment opportunities; and enabling all young people’s access to the same, especially those stemming from most marginalised communities,” adds Sriram. During the second wave of the pandemic, YuWaah saw an opportunity to mobilise the youth in a pan-India movement called the #Young Warrior. Young people were engaged in a series of easy and real-life tasks, including promoting access to verified information and essential services, vaccine registration, COVID-19 appropriate behaviours and myth-busting to safeguard themselves, their families and their communities. A series of innovative channels such as WhatsApp/Facebook-based chatbot, Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), Community Radio, Capacity Building sessions and Interactive Knowledge Hub were used to support young people’s participation and leadership in this movement. Each young person was encouraged to enroll 10 more and pledge to take action to protect themselves, their families and their communities against COVID-19, collectively impacting 50+ million people across the country. This led to 2.83 million specific and measurable actions. Leveraging the successes, learnings and large partnership network created during the Young Warrior movement, an ambitious and expanded second phase, YoungWarriorNXT was conceptualised in August 2021. “It aims to deploy large-scale learning and skilling solutions for youth whose education has been disrupted. It will address the missing link of employability and life skills and use multiple channels so that no youth gets left behind in acquiring 21st century skills,” explains Sriram. This initiative will offer a range of opportunities like local demand-based skilling with job matching through quality internships and apprenticeships and promote entrepreneurship. #YoungWarriorNXT aims to empower 10 million young people with essential life and employability skills that shall enable them to pursue successful lives and careers and focuses on transforming Young Warriors into Young Leaders by equipping them with essential life skills (decision making, problem-solving, self-awareness, communication); employability skills (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), and mental health and well-being skills (stress management, self-care, self-awareness). To be #YoungWarriorNXT WhatsApp: Type YWNXT and send to +91 96504 14141 Facebook: Go to UReport India Facebook Page, Type YWNXT and hit send Visit www.yuwaah.org /youngwarrior for more information  “We achieve this by partnering with young people themselves; facilitating diverse, equal-footing and multi-stakeholder platforms for listening to and amplifying young people’s voices, perspectives and priorities ...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/future-leaders-in-the-making/article36815685.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||LearnHat rolls out scholarships worth Rs. 1 crore||LearnHat recdently announced that it will roll out scholarships for students in classes 1-10, across India through the LearnHat National Scholarship Test - LANCET. The online 30-minute test is a combination of objective and subjective questions based on critical thinking, general aptitude and creativity. Its focus is to encourage students to demonstrate academic capability, as well as logical reasoning and thinking prowess. Scholarships awarded will be a combination of annual tuition sessions across all subjects, and fee waivers on a selection of subjects. It will host the LANCET test series over the next couple of months. To register, visit, https://bit.ly/3tM64Q0   Ashoka University recently announced the setting up of The Centre for the Creative and the Critical, which will provide a forum to raise and address questions around creative practice and critical argument. It aims to bring together novelists, poets, translators, artists, scholars, filmmakers, journalists and publishers to stimulate intercultural and extra-disciplinary discussions about creative practice and be a source for interventions in contemporary debates on varied subjects and develop a new vocabulary for these debates. It will build on partnerships with other institutions around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/learnhat-rolls-out-scholarships-worth-rs-1-crore/article36815683.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Study in Canada||The Indo-Canadian Business Chamber will host a Undergraduate Virtual Series 2021 to provide information about opportunities and programmes in Canadian universities and colleges. It will also highlight scholarships, affordability, and career paths in an all-Canada context. Participating institutions include University of Toronto, University of Alberta, Bishop’s University, Huron at Western, Kwantlen Polytechnic University, Mount Allison University Lake Head University, McMaster University, Queen’s university, Ryerson University, University of Guelph, University of Saskatchewan, University of Victoria, University of Waterloo, University of Windsor, York University & Colleges such as Bow Valley College, Centennial College, NorQuest College & Seneca. This will be held on October 5 and those interested can apply at https://bit.ly/3B8pPEs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/study-in-canada/article36815684.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Future leaders in the making||Currently, there are over 1.8 billion young people between the ages of 10 and 24 globally, of which an estimated 20% lives in India. Engaging with this demographic group presents a unique opportunity to bring about dynamic and sustainable change in the country’s socio-economic landscape. In 2018, as part of the UN Youth Policy 2030, UNICEF launched the global Generation Unlimited (Gen-U) movement to meet the urgent needs of young people and to expand learning, skill development, employment and engagement opportunities. The India chapter of Generation Unlimited – YuWaah — was launched in 2019. “By 2030, YuWaah aims to build pathways to aspirational socio-economic opportunities for 100 million young people; facilitate 200 million young people to gain relevant skills for productive lives and the future of work; and partner with 300 million young people as change-makers and create spaces for developing their leadership,” says Dhuwarakha Sriram, Chief of Generation Unlimited (YuWaah), Youth Development and Partnerships at UNICEF India. Towards empowerment YuWaah’s mission is to enable all young people — wherever they may be — to realise their full potential. “We achieve this by partnering with young people themselves; facilitating diverse, equal-footing and multi-stakeholder platforms for listening to and amplifying young people’s voices, perspectives and priorities; optimising investments towards at-scale learning, skilling, leadership and employment opportunities; and enabling all young people’s access to the same, especially those stemming from most marginalised communities,” adds Sriram. During the second wave of the pandemic, YuWaah saw an opportunity to mobilise the youth in a pan-India movement called the #Young Warrior. Young people were engaged in a series of easy and real-life tasks, including promoting access to verified information and essential services, vaccine registration, COVID-19 appropriate behaviours and myth-busting to safeguard themselves, their families and their communities. A series of innovative channels such as WhatsApp/Facebook-based chatbot, Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), Community Radio, Capacity Building sessions and Interactive Knowledge Hub were used to support young people’s participation and leadership in this movement. Each young person was encouraged to enroll 10 more and pledge to take action to protect themselves, their families and their communities against COVID-19, collectively impacting 50+ million people across the country. This led to 2.83 million specific and measurable actions. Leveraging the successes, learnings and large partnership network created during the Young Warrior movement, an ambitious and expanded second phase, YoungWarriorNXT was conceptualised in August 2021. “It aims to deploy large-scale learning and skilling solutions for youth whose education has been disrupted. It will address the missing link of employability and life skills and use multiple channels so that no youth gets left behind in acquiring 21st century skills,” explains Sriram. This initiative will offer a range of opportunities like local demand-based skilling with job matching through quality internships and apprenticeships and promote entrepreneurship. #YoungWarriorNXT aims to empower 10 million young people with essential life and employability skills that shall enable them to pursue successful lives and careers and focuses on transforming Young Warriors into Young Leaders by equipping them with essential life skills (decision making, problem-solving, self-awareness, communication); employability skills (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), and mental health and well-being skills (stress management, self-care, self-awareness). To be #YoungWarriorNXT WhatsApp: Type YWNXT and send to +91 96504 14141 Facebook: Go to UReport India Facebook Page, Type YWNXT and hit send Visit www.yuwaah.org/youngwarrior for more information  “We achieve this by partnering with young people themselves; facilitating diverse, equal-footing and multi-stakeholder platforms for listening to and amplifying young people’s voices, perspectives and priorities ...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/future-leaders-in-the-making/article36815678.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Spirited away: India to the||The Americas may not be on our travel itineraries for a while longer, but we can experience it vicariously — via the native spirits of the region. Full of flavour, these form the base of some exquisite cocktails finding fans across the globe, and now they are available in India (selectively available in markets such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Gurgaon and Bengaluru). The prices may just break the bank, but their appeal in your bar is unparalleled. Mezcal I attended a mezcal tasting in 2017 hosted by Sergio Inurrigarro, a Master Mezcalier (the only certification endorsed by the Mexican government). Mezcal, like tequila, is an agave-based spirit. The key difference is that while the latter can only be made from one type of agave, the Agave Tequilana or the Blue Weber, the former can be made from up to 30 different types of agave. Inurrigarro did an expert job of guiding us through the four different mezcal brands. He also explained the importance of the kiss method (taking small sips, much like small kisses) as a way to let the enzymes in the saliva break down the alcohol. This is particularly important because the smoky, earthy spirit, he claimed, represents the purest form of alcohol. A point later reinforced by Jay Khan, owner of Coa in Hong Kong, a bar devoted to agave spirits. He explained his passion for the agave succinctly: “These spirits are the only ones that express their flavour naturally.” (The Caffeinated Negroni, with a splash of mezcal, is one of their signatures. So good, I had two!) Captivated by the brands I drank that evening, I searched for them locally, only to be bitterly disappointed. Flash forward to 2021, and we have not one, but three mezcal brands available in the market: Creyente (represented by Monika Enterprises, Rs. 7,400*), Perro de San Juan (represented by Two Friends, Rs. 9,975*), and Mezcal Meteoro (represented by The Vault, Rs. 11,600*). And although it may be late to the party, it very much appears to be a product that can ride the premiumisation wave in India, a trend that will parallel what we have seen over recent years internationally. Of late, it has gained considerable popularity among consumers and has also become a darling of the bartender community. “I love mezcal because of its extraordinary smoky character,” says Santanu Chanda, from Home in New Delhi. “While making a mezcal drink, you can use it as an aroma [such as spray, mist, etc.], but it also works radiantly as the main spirit, especially in ‘sour’ drinks.” Meanwhile, Keshav Prakash of The Vault feels that mezcal (and the other spirits profiled here) are going to be at the fore very soon and they “might run concurrent with gin post its euphoria”. Cachaca This spirit from South America is one I’ve unsuccessfully searched for in India until now. The Vault has recently introduced Capucana, a premium cachaca brand in India. The distilled spirit is made from sugarcane juice and can be considered the national spirit of Brazil. It reaches its apex in a cocktail called the Caipirinha. Visitors to the Oberoi in Mumbai can enjoy one. Capucana comes from the Piracicaba region of Brazil, and the name literally means ‘House of Canes’. It’s produced in the oldest cachaçera in Piracicaba, and the distinctive drink is a blend of nine varieties of fermented sugarcane from three farms — all distillates of different ages — which are matured for three years in American oak barrels. It has the grassiness of a typical Cachaca, but also a mellowness that comes from the time it spends in barrels.  A p isco break   I’ve always been a fan of the Pisco Sour and was pleasantly surprised to find out that Peru has a National Pisco Sour Day in February. Even better, they’d called me, not to Peru of course, but to the house of the Deputy Chief of Mission, to celebrate the day with them. In the house to talk about pisco — and La Botija, the brand imported by Monika Enterprises — was Dushyant Tanwar, their brand ambassador. Pisco for those unclear, is a grape brandy, a spirit distilled from wine. Any one of eight varieties of grapes can be used, but the one I drank, La Botija’s Pisco Quebranta (Rs. 4,499*), is distilled Quebranta grape juice, the widest grape varietal grown in Peru for the production of pisco. We started the evening by tasting the pisco neat. It’s drier in style, with aromas and flavours of fruits and some spice and, as Dushyant explained, in the case of the Peruvian pisco, nothing can be added to the spirit after distillation. Also, it’s bottled straight from the still. The Pisco Sour followed, as did two variations of it, the Amazonian Sour made with bananas and the Inca Sour, with avocados. Given the slump in the hospitality industry pan India, it was good to see the diplomatic community playing ambassador for their nation’s spirits, with the Mexican embassy supporting the launch of Creyente Mezcal in Gurugram earlier this year. Maybe a flight of fancy, but do you think someday we might see an Indian diplomat on a foreign mission, organise a f eni or m ahua tasting? Until then, let’s raise that glass of Pisco Sour high and enjoy.  * All pricing for Maharashtra   The writer is CEO of Tulleeho and co-founder of 30 Best Bars India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/spirited-away-india-to-the/article36816202.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||At the crossroads||It’s the age of image-making and everything is photographed or videotaped, from the innocuous to the narcissistic to the macabre. But for this, we might never have seen first-hand the posse of policemen shooting several times at a man running towards them with alathi, an armed posse that could quite easily have overpowered him by numbers alone. In the following moments, we see visuals, ironically, of the ‘embedded’ videographer stomping savagely upon the man’s fallen body. He was later identified as Bijay Baniya and arrested; the fallen man was identified by his Aadhaar card as Maynal Haque, a villager from the area in Sipajhar in Assam that was forcibly evacuated last week. When humans created society and planted the first seeds of civilisation, they formed some broad ethical and moral structures to govern themselves. After all, they imagined themselves as sapient beings of a higher order. Some deeds were set outside the social pale — killing, for instance, or torture were labelled the most reprehensible crimes, attracting severe punishments. Yet, today, at the supposed acme of civilisation, we regularly see videos of people indulging in the most horrific violence. Not so long ago, it was a bangle-seller being brutally beaten in Indore. These visuals reveal three things: first, the sense of impunity with which the crimes are committed. Second, the public nature of the barbarism, with no disgrace or shame attached to it. And third, the absence of horror in large segments of viewers, many often applauding the deeds. Both perpetrators and purveyors exist then in a universe that is seemingly outside civilisational boundaries. How did we get here? After all, we are widely considered a spiritual nation; with Gandhi’s help we even threw out the powerful British using non-violence, not guns. To understand, we need to unwrap a little bit the psychology that drives humans to extreme crimes like slavery, lynching or genocide. Historian David Brion Davis has written of how it was the severance of “the ties of human identity and empathy” that made slavery possible. White men deemed black people as less than human, and just as killing animals isn’t considered murder, so too slavery could be rationalised. We see this rationalisation at work when women are stripped, paraded, killed as the village watches on — the deed is not regarded as a crime but a ‘great’ act to restore the community’s ‘honour’. Before the genocide in Rwanda, the term inyenzi or cockroach was used for Tutsi people; in Nazi Germany, Jews were labelled as untermenschen or subhumans. Such abasing imagery was methodically established through propaganda first, a process American scholar Gregory Gordon describes as “verminisation, pathologisation, demonisation, and dehumanisation”. Once this sort of brainwashing takes place, large numbers of people no longer feel remorse for crimes against targeted communities, seeing themselves rather as ‘protectors’ of communal honour or national security. Look at the body language in the video from Assam. It is one of hunting, of extermination. The attacker has no pity for the wounded, bleeding person because he has decided he isn’t worthy of it. As philosopher-lecturer David Livingstone Smith says, dehumanising helps us exclude some people from “the magic circle of moral consideration”, thus overcoming our natural revulsion against killing and wounding. We see today consistent attempts to create such a cultural universe where ideas of morality are inverted, so that murder or lynching not only become acceptable but valorous acts; not done stealthily but visibly; not hushed up but filmed and shared widely. Yet, even in this moral morass, hope still sparks. The push-back has not ceased. It was widespread public abhorrence and condemnation that led to the quick arrest of the photographer from Assam and the launch of a judicial probe. Can we keep resisting? It seems an impossible task given the magnitude of the disinformation and because we think of monsters as larger-than-life, a Pol Pot or Idi Amin. In reality, though, the worst excesses are committed by ordinary people like Bijay Baniya. And it’s ordinary people who have to actively resist the onslaught of this continuous, enervating, insidious propaganda to dehumanise — failing which we will all quite quickly be transformed into monsters ourselves. Keeping brutalisation at bay is always important, but at this juncture perhaps our self-preservation depends upon it. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-the-crossroads/article36816201.ece
04 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU online admissions under first cut-off list to begin today||Delhi University will start admissions to undergraduate courses under the first cut-off list from Monday. The students can apply from 10 a.m. on October 4 to 11.59 p.m. on October 6 on the admission portal where they had submitted their application forms after the university released its first list on October 1. Colleges will complete approvals for admissions against the first cut-off by 5 p.m on October 7. The last day for payment by candidates is 5 p.m. on October 8, the university said. Before applying for admissions, the university said that candidates must recheck their marks/percentages and eligibility criteria. “The candidate is allowed to choose only one programme at a college during the particular cut-off. Selecting multiple programmes and colleges in a particular cut-off is not permitted. No change in the chosen programme and college will be permitted during a particular cut-off,” the university said. It added that selection of programme and college can be made only through the candidate’s own dashboard on the portal and no physical visit to the colleges/ university during the admission process is required. Colleges will verify the uploaded documents and based on the eligibility will either accept or reject the candidature. In case of lack of necessary documents, a candidate will be contacted on their registered email ID/phone by the respective college so that the same may be provided directly to the college, the university said. Once the candidature is accepted, students will receive a link to submit the fees. “No application will be left undecided. It will either be approved or rejected [citing reason] by the principal of the college,” the university said. It added that in case any candidate is not satisfied with the reason for rejection [as given by the college], a grievance may be registered with the College Grievance Redressal Committee through email available on the website of the respective college. The uploaded documents will be verified physically by the respective colleges at a later date. If at any stage, it is found that the information given by the candidate is incorrect/fabricated or is not supported by the documents presented, the admission will be immediately cancelled without giving any prior notice. No fees will be refunded in such cases. After the announcement of subsequent cut-off lists, any candidate who applied in any cut-off and had made the fee payment but later wishes to take admission in any subsequent cut-off, subject to meeting the eligibility conditions have to cancel his/her admission and repeat the process of taking admission. The university said that cancellation option will be available only once in a particular cut-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-online-admissions-under-first-cut-off-list-to-begin-today/article36816008.ece
04 October 2021||October 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashoka, not a nice guy?||Ravi Shankar Etteth’s The Return of The Brahmin (Westland), like its predecessor The Brahmin (2018), is a historical thriller. However, calling it just that would mean not acknowledging the vast storyscape Etteth creates for his main characters — all of whom have grown in age and stature. For the generations used to reading about India’s kings and emperors from popular comics, where they were distinctly white or black, this series shows what might have possibly been. In the process, the author also imagines how a king who perhaps did not show kindness or remorse is still revered centuries later. Food and drink occupy an important role in the proceedings, and Etteth laughs when you mention that. Think medaka or rice beer, barley bread and butter, palm liquor, and the pork soup (believed to have been invented by the Buddha) that was “made from the flesh of succulent piglets cooked with butter and parsley, and a sprinkling of ginger and spring onions”. This series is pacy and teems with a certain grandness, much like Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s films, as a reviewer for this paper wrote about The Brahmin . That makes it eminently adaptable as a web or OTT series — possibly why media company Endemol has optioned it. Excerpts from an interview: Why did you choose to write about Ashoka? His benevolent unblemished personality intrigued me. There are good kings and bad kings, but there are no nice kings. You can’t be both nice and ruthless. Ashoka was ruthless, who killed 99 siblings and burned the crown Prince in a flaming moat. He built the beautiful Palace of Hell in Pataliputra run by the torturer Chandagirika where Ashoka’s victims, including his concubines who didn’t like his skin texture, were tortured to death. His favourite pastime was feeding people to crocodiles. So, it is difficult to fathom that he turned into a gentle Buddhist and shunned war seeing 10,000 soldiers lying dead on the battlefield. In fact, he committed genocide of the aajivikas after he became a Buddhist. I was keen to explore how such a ruler could have tricked everyone into thinking that he had changed. Did he really? Ashoka was a disruptor, and he balanced Hinduism and Buddhism to retain supreme power. While the novel is set in the past, in Magadha, the language is contemporary. Also, the relationships, even between Ashoka and the Brahmin, have a certain tone of informality. Was this intentional? The relationship between Ashoka and the Brahmin has already been established in the first book. They are brothers and comrades even though Ashoka is the king, and this is something the Brahmin is conscious about. As for keeping the narrative style contemporary, it’s because I believe a book and the story must be accessible. We are creatures of our time and it does not make sense to use archaic language. It is important to feature the idioms of the age, mannerisms, fashion, food, architecture, geography, rituals, etc., to provide authenticity. Today’s historians like Wendy Doniger, William Dalrymple, Walter Isaacson etc., use contemporary language and adopt a narrative form that makes it easily relatable. How important are facts when there is a certain element of re-imagination? Facts form the endoskeleton of historical writing. That said, by and large, unlike European history which is well-recorded, many aspects of some ancient empires are not documented thoroughly. Since it was all such a long time ago, the writer has to combine conjecture with history. But you cannot tamper with facts. You can say that rice, wheat and maize were cultivated in Magadha, but not poppy. The architecture, city planning, horses, weapons and topography in the Brahmin books are real. I did take some liberties with the fashion and food.  Priced at Rs. 277, The Return of The Brahmin is available on amazon.in   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashoka-not-a-nice-guy/article36816200.ece
