05 October 2021||LAKHIMPUR KHERI,||Farmers raise pitch, protest with bodies||A day after four farmers were mowed to death in a violent incident involving vehicles in the convoy of a Union Minister, hundreds of farmers predominantly from the Sikh community gathered at the site of the incident in Tikonia. For several hours, the farmers parked a tractor next to the ground where the incident took place, and kept the bodies of the four farmers on display in freezer caskets. Farmers said they would not move from the site and would not carry out the last rites till their demands of action against Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra and his son Ashish were met. Religious slogans and chants resonated at the site. However, around 1 p.m., the tension was defused after Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait emerged after a meeting with top Uttar Pradesh Government officials, and from a makeshift platform, requested the protesters and the families of the victims to return home. Mr. Tikait, who started his speech with the slogan, “ Veer shahidon ka balidan, yaad karega Hindustan (the country will remember the sacrifice of the brave martyrs),” told the crowd that the Kisan Sanghathan had won a “big victory” as the Union Minister’s son had been booked for murder and Rs. 45 lakh compensation promised for each family, along with a Government job, and that a judicial investigation would be conducted. “The Minister and his son will not be spared... He will lose his ministerial post,” Mr. Tikait assured the protesters. The BKU leader also said that an ultimatum had been issued to the government that if it did not take satisfactory action till the funeral rituals of the dead were completed in 10 to 12 days, a mahapanchayat would be called. Following his assurances, officials of the district administration arrived at the site and moved the bodies into ambulances to take them to the district hospital for autopsy and the farmers and their leaders dispersed. An FIR under Sections 302 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the Minister’s son, who the farmers alleged was in one of the vehicles that ploughed into the waiting farmers, and 10 to 15 unknown persons. Distraught kin Among the dead, wrapped in a BKU flag, was the body of Lovepreet Singh, 20, a resident of Chauktha Farm in Lakhimpur Kheri. His mother, Sukhvinder Kaur, was inconsolable, weeping and kissing the glass casket inside which the body lay. Lovepreet, a farmer like most other Sikhs in the fertile Terai belt of U.P., was the only son of his parents. His brother-in-law Makkan Singh questioned the narrative of Union Minister Mishra that the vehicle involved in the incident was en route to receive Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the helipad of the Maharaja Agrasen ground. Makkan Singh said the administration had informed the protesters that the Deputy Chief Minister’s route had been changed but even then three cars belonging to Mr. Mishra’s convoy drove towards the farmers lined up on either side of the road at full speed. “It was a planned murder,” Mr. Singh said. Next to Lovepreet’s body lay that of Nachattar Singh, 60. Hearing the news of Nachattar’s death, his younger son, Mandeep, 25, an SSB jawan, left his post in Almora for Tikonia. The family is from Dhauraha in Kheri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-raise-pitch-protest-with-bodies/article36832857.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. moots changes to Forest Act||The Union Government has proposed absolving agencies involved in national security projects and border infrastructure projects from obtaining prior forest clearance from the Centre as part of amendments to the existing Forest Conservation Act (FCA). The FCA, which first came in 1980 and was amended in 1988, requires such permission. The proposed amendment is part of a larger rationalising of existing forest laws, the government has said. The document is open to public discussion for 15 days after which it could be readied for Cabinet and parliamentary approval. There is also a plan in the document that is now available on the Environment Ministry’s website, to exempt land acquired before 1980 — before the FCA came into effect — by public sector bodies such as the Railways. Currently, the document notes, there was “strong resentment” among several Ministries on how the Act was being interpreted over the right of way of railways, highways. As of today, a landholding agency (Rail, NHAI, PWD, etc.) is required to take approval under the Act and pay stipulated compensatory levies such as Net Present Value (NPV), Compensatory Afforestation (CA), etc. for use of such land which was originally been acquired for non-forest purposes. The Environment Ministry also proposes adding a clause to make offences under the modified Act punishable with simple imprisonment for a period which may extend to one year and make it cognisable and non-bailable. They also propose provisions for penal compensation to make good for the damage already done. The document also proposes removing zoos, safaris, Forest Training infrastructures from the definition of “non-forestry” activities. The current definition restricts the way money collected as part of compensatory cess can be spent towards forest conservation purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-moots-changes-to-forest-act/article36832853.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC lashes out at farmers’ groups||The Supreme Court on Monday lashed out at farmers’ organisations for continuing the protests against the Centre’s new farm laws, saying when the agitation snowballed into violence as in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed, “nobody takes responsibility”. “When such incidents happen, causing deaths, loss to property and damage, nobody takes responsibility,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar observed. Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal described the violence on Sunday as an “unfortunate incident”. The top law officer for the government said the court should make it very clear that protests should not continue when the challenge against the farm laws were in the highest court of the country. “No more unfortunate incidents like this should take place... The protests must stop,” Mr. Venugopal, supported by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, submitted. “But how can there be protests when the matter is sub judice here? Why are there protests when the laws have been kept in abeyance? It is intriguing, there is no Act in place at the moment. The Act is stayed. The Government has assured it will not give effect to it... So what is this protest for,” Justice Khanwilkar, flanked by Justice C.T. Ravikumar on the Bench, asked Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ organisation. The farmers’ body wanted to sit on a ‘satyagraha’ at the Jantar Mantar. Justice Khanwilkar said the farm laws were passed by Parliament. “The government is also bound by the laws passed by Parliament... We are on principle here, once you go to court, how can the same party say that matter is before court, nevertheless I will still protest,” the judge observed. The court, in its order, decided to frame legal questions in the issue. The Bench said it would first decide whether the right to protest was an “absolute right”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-lashes-out-at-farmers-groups/article36832855.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin writes to CMs of 12 States on NEET||Mustering support for his government’s fight against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday wrote to his counterparts in 12 States, calling for united efforts to restore the primacy of the States in administering the education sector as originally envisaged in the Constitution. His letter was addressed to the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal. “Our considered position has always been that the Union government’s decision to introduce the NEET goes against the very spirit of federalism and violates the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the State governments to decide on the method of admission to the medical institutions founded, established and run by them,” Mr. Stalin said in the letter, a copy of which was circulated to the media. “In this regard, we consider that the State governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-writes-to-cms-of-12-states-on-neet/article36833229.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||14 new bridges planned across Musi river||State government is planning to construct 14 new bridges across Musi river, in addition to the existing ones. Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao shared this in response to a question raised by MIM legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi during the ongoing monsoon session of the State Legislative Assembly. Mr. Owaisi, during a short discussion on ‘Welfare of minorities in the State and developmental activities in the Old City of Hyderabad’, sought to know the status of the two bridges sanctioned by the government near Salar Jung Museum for shifting of the hawkers set to be displaced by the Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP). Mr. Rama Rao, said proposals were invited for a design competition and the designs submitted are in the final stages of perusal. A decision will soon be taken. The new bridges are needed for ease in commuting, and also to prevent repetition of floods like in October, 2020, he said. In another announcement, KTR said efforts are on to revive the Quli Qutub Shah Urban Development Authority and hand over all the works pertaining to heritage conservation and development including CPP to it. He also made an announcement for beautification of the Miralam Tank, in the similar way as Durgam Cheruvu. The Minister listed out various developmental works taken up in Old City, and said funds to the tune of Rs. 14,887.26 crore have been spent by various departments in the eight constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-new-bridges-planned-across-musi-river/article36833298.ece
05 October 2021||GUNTUR,||Crack down on drug menace: CM to officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that every college and university in the State should be free from drugs and directed officials to take the strongest possible action against elements which are luring innocent boys and girls into the drug racket. During a review on law and order situation at his camp office on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “I want the police to review if there are drug cases, and map the colleges and pay special attention to drug peddling. I want a report to be submitted every month to prepare an action plan to curb the drug menace, especially in educational institutions.” Stating that the Opposition leaders had been falsely propagating a drug deal which was not connected to the State, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the Opposition was acting irresponsibly with an aim to tarnish the image of the Police Department, the government as well as the people. “Despite the fact that the drugs scandal is not true, a few media houses and websites are promoting the fake news,” he said. The Chief Minister instructed the authorities to pay special attention towards illegal manufacturing and supply of alcohol in the State. Police should also focus on the issue along with the SEB. He said about 15,000 mahila police had been deployed in village and ward secretariats and asked the officials to train them by December. He told the officials to focus on recruiting 6,000 to 7,000 police personnel in the coming year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crack-down-on-drug-menace-cm-to-officials/article36832814.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,||One killed in rain-related accident in city||One person died after losingcontrol over his two-wheeler and colliding with a tree that was uprooted following rain near South EndCircle on Monday. The deceased has been identified as B.S. Nagaraj, a 65-year-old coffee shop owner and resident of Tata Silk Farm. He was on his way to open the coffee shop when the accident happened. Motorists vented ire at the civic authorities and the police, accusing them of failingto clear debris that had fallen on the road following heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-in-rain-related-accident-in-city/article36832876.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Call for action against Alagiri||An advocate has urged the Madras High Court to initiate suo motu contempt of court proceedings against TNCC president K.S. Alagiri for having issued a statement against Justice N. Anand Venkatesh who had expressed displeasure over holding up of road traffic during government events. The advocate, M.L. Ravi, on Monday made a mention before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee about an e-mail he had sent to the Registry. The Chief Justice replied that he would look into it. In his communication to the Registry, the lawyer stated that the judge was miffed over holding up of road traffic by the police during the 93rd birth anniversary celebrations of actor Sivaji Ganesan at his memorial in Chennai. After reaching the court late due to the traffic jam, the judge had asked the Home Secretary to appear through video call. The Home Secretary expressed regret. Taking exception to the judge having summoned the Home Secretary, Mr. Alagiri said he should have avoided such comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-for-action-against-alagiri/article36833282.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||No State can deny Rs. 50,000 ex gratia: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said State governments should not deny the ex gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the families of persons who died of COVID merely on the grounds that their death certificates did not show the virus as the cause of death. A Bench led by Justice M.R. Shah underscored this point while approving the guidelines proposed by the NDMA under the Disaster Management Act for grant of ex gratia to the kin of people who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-state-can-deny-rs-50000-ex-gratia-sc/article36833145.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks model pact between builder, buyer||The Supreme Court on October 4 stepped in to protect homebuyers from exploitation by builders who delay transfer of possession and often redraft delivery schedules. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna issued notice on a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay on the lack of a “uniform or model” form for agreements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-model-pact-between-builder-buyer/article36833022.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP’s guarded response||The BJP did not respond officially to Lakhimpur Kheri incident, allowing the State unit and MoS Ajay Kumar Mishra to speak instead. However, the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh said those involved in the incident “were not farmers, they were from various political parties, and deployed ways of Leftist parties in this situation.” BJP MP Varun Gandhi called for restraint and patience, in a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-guarded-response/article36832849.ece
05 October 2021||DAteline,||Opposition slams U.P. govt.||The Opposition parties on Monday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of ‘throttling democracy’ by preventing their leaders from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, SP president Akhilesh Yadav, BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra, AAP’s Sanjay Singh, were stopped from visiting the site. Chhattisgarh and Punjab CMs Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi were barred from landing at the Lucknow airport.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-slams-up-govt/article36832850.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. announces plan to tackle pollution in winter||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a 10-point action plan to combat pollution during winter when the Capital’s air quality reaches hazardous levels every year. Mr. Kejriwal, however, accused the Centre and governments of neighbouring States of not having done anything to stop stubble burning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-announces-plan-to-tackle-pollution-in-winter/article36833021.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||No State can deny Rs. 50,000 ex gratia: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the State governments should not deny the ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 each to the families of persons who died of COVID-19 merely on the grounds that their death certificates did not show the virus as the cause of death. The court underscored this point while approving the guidelines proposed by the NDMA for grant of ex gratia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-state-can-deny-rs-50000-ex-gratia-sc/article36833023.ece
05 October 2021||Pune,||After 18 months, schools reopen in Maharashtra||After staying shut for over one-and-a-half years due to COVID-19, schools reopened across Maharashtra on Monday for students of Class V to XII in rural areas and VIII to XII in urban pockets. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urged parents to take care of their children’s health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-18-months-schools-reopen-in-maharashtra/article36833142.ece
05 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal violence: CBI, SIT submit reports before HC||The CBI and the SIT probing post-poll violence in Bengal submitted their reports to the Calcutta High Court on Monday. “Status report has also been filed by CBI in a sealed cover. It was opened. Briefly it mentions that total 40 FIRs were registered. After investigation chargesheets have been filed in seven cases,” the order read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-violence-cbi-sit-submit-reports-before-hc/article36833143.ece
05 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan bypolls: parties facing internal strife||Internal rivalries and political interference by dominant communities are some of the factors facing both the Congress and the BJP in the exercise to select candidates for the upcoming Assembly bypolls in Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-bypolls-parties-facing-internal-strife/article36833144.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Tensions break out at Lakhimpur Kheri as U.P. blocks leaders||The Opposition parties on Monday closed ranks in accusing the Yogi Adityanath Government in Uttar Pradesh of “throttling democracy” by preventing their leaders from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight people including four farmers were killed during a protest on Sunday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Satish Chandra Mishra and Aam Admi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh were among those leaders who were not allowed to go to the trouble spot, citing the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code that prohibits a large gathering of people. Chhattisgarh and Punjab Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi and the latter’s deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were also barred from landing at the Lucknow airport as the U.P. Government denied them the permission to visit the State. The U.P. government’s move prompted Mr. Baghel to ask, “Does one require a passport or visa to visit Uttar Pradesh? Have the rights of all residents been taken away in Uttar Pradesh?” He also asked why he was not allowed to land in Lucknow since Section 144 was imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri. The SP president was stopped just outside his Lucknow residence in the morning and the BSP’s Mr. Mishra has been placed under house arrest late on Sunday night. But it was the arrest of Ms. Vadra that witnessed dramatic scenes. The Congress general secretary in charge for U.P., accompanied by her colleague and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda started for Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday night after arriving in Lucknow. After being briefly stopped outside Lucknow, the Congress leaders reportedly took a different route to avoid heavy police deployment along the main route but were finally stopped at Sitapur, about an hour’s drive to violence-hit region of Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Policemen were deployed at all entry points of the district to stop the entry of outsiders. Ms. Vadra’s video of arguing with the police officials went viral as they took her a government guest house after detaining her and Mr. Hooda. “What happened [in Lakhimpur] shows that the government is trying crush and finish off the farmers,” Ms. Vadra said in a video posted on twitter handle. In Lucknow, Mr. Yadav sat on a dharna along with party workers after being denied permission to travel. BSP chief Mayawati too reiterated her party’s demand for a judicial inquiry. “The BJP and Modi government have no business to not allow political parties to reach victims of the barbarism inflicted on farmers yesterday [Sunday]. Strongly condemn this draconian throttling of democracy,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. “The voice of the farmers of the country cannot be silenced now. Blood of the bread-winners of the country was spilled on the streets. This cannot go unanswered. The government will have to repeal the farm laws,” said CPI general secretary D. Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tensions-break-out-at-lakhimpur-kheri-as-up-blocks-leaders/article36832788.ece
05 October 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Hold Sri Lanka provincial polls’||India has urged Sri Lanka to hold elections to its provincial councils without further delay, according to the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) whose delegation met visiting Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Monday. Also India does not appreciate any “third party presence” in the Tamil-majority north and east, where New Delhi had “invested heavily”, the Foreign Secretary told the TNA, which is the largest grouping representing Tamils of the north and east in the 225-member Parliament, with 10 MPs. “Foreign Secretary Shringla told us that he has conveyed to the Sri Lankan leadership that provincial polls be held immediately, along with the full implementation of the 13th Amendment,” TNA spokesperson and Jaffna legislator M.A. Sumanthiran, who was part of the delegation led by veteran Tamil leader R. Sampanthan, told The Hindu . “The government had raised some legal challenges in holding the elections, but I pointed out to the Foreign Secretary that even the Attorney-General had cleared the holding of polls with a simple amendment,” Mr. Sumanthiran, a senior constitutional lawyer, said. “The Foreign Secretary reiterated India’s continued support for the full implementation of the 13th Amendment and going beyond it to achieve meaningful devolution,” the Tamil MP said, referring to the only constitutional guarantee thus far on a measure of power devolution to the provinces. Key members within the Rajapaksa government had sought the repeal of the Amendment, and the abolition of the provincial council system. The five-year terms of the provincial councils — born out of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987 as a step to devolve political power to all the provinces — last expired in 2018 and 2019, during the time of the former Maithripala Sirisena–Ranil Wickremesinghe government. Despite the then oppositional Rajapaksa camp demanding that the polls be held to the nine provinces, the Sirisena administration, which amended the Provincial Councils Elections Act in 2017, postponed holding the elections, as it grew increasingly unpopular amid internal rifts. “On Mr. Shringla’s concerns about any third-party presence in the north and east, we told him that we do not want our country to become a Chinese colony. We said that since the north and east have historic, cultural and linguistic ties with India, we do not want any other force to change that,” Mr. Sumanthiran said. Earlier this year, the TNA had opposed a Chinese energy project in Delft island off Jaffna peninsula, citing “security threats” to the Tamil people and India. New Delhi, too, voiced concern and offered an alternative grant to Colombo to pursue the project. Malaiyaha Tamils Mr. Shringla also met prominent leaders representing the Malaiyaha (hill country) Tamils, including the Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA), in Opposition, and the Ceylon Workers’ Congress — part of the Rajapaksa government. In his delegation’s meeting, TPA Leader and MP Mano Ganesan underscored the importance of the 16th Amendment, along with the 13th Amendment, that ensured language rights to Tamils. “We urged India to give equal importance to both while raising our concerns with the government,” Mr. Ganesan told The Hindu . The TPA flagged proposed electoral reforms that they fear would reduce the political representation of the Malaiyaha Tamils (some of whom identify as Indian-origin Tamils). “We also sought greater support of the Indian government to the plantation Tamil community that has been neglected for generations, through suitable socio-economic projects,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-sri-lanka-provincial-polls/article36832771.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||No State can deny Rs. 50,000 ex gratia: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said State Governments should not deny the ex gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the families of persons who died of COVID-19 merely on the grounds that their death certificates did not show the virus as the cause of death. A Bench led by Justice M.R. Shah underscored this point while approving the guidelines proposed by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the Disaster Management Act for grant of ex gratia to the kin of people who died of COVID-19. SDRF funds The guidelines, part of an affidavit filed by the Home Ministry, has tasked the States with providing the relief from their States Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The District Disaster Management Authorities would make the disbursements. Claims would be settled within 30 days of submission of documents. The disbursement would be made via Aadhaar-linked direct bank transfers. District-level committees would deal with grievances regarding certification of death and issue amended documents. The court said these committees should be able to directly access hospital medical records to ascertain claims. The court said such a move would help resolve cases in which families claim ex gratia but do not have medical records of COVID treatment to show. The committees would have to record the reasons for rejecting claims. The payment would continue for future COVID deaths until further notification. The guidelines have said families of those who committed suicide within 30 days of a COVID-positive diagnosis would be also be eligible for ex gratia. ‘Issue guidelines’ The court directed the NDMA and the Ministry of Health to issue the guidelines to have them implemented by the States. On June 30, the court, in a judgment based on a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal, had ordered the NDMA to frame uniform guidelines for payment of ex gratia. The government has fortified itself against the likelihood of future criticism about disbursing Rs. 50,000 and not more by saying “it is not possible to ascertain the total financial burden emanating from the ex gratia assistance. Financial prudence demands that we plan in a manner that assistance can be provided to a large number of people, should the number of deaths rise”. The NDMA guidelines had noted that States had already been incurring large expenditure from the SDRF on various aspects of COVID-19 prevention, management and response. The Centre too had, from the national budget, announced several measures to curb the spread of the virus, including the vaccination drive and providing for the welfare and support of those affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-state-can-deny-rs-50000-ex-gratia-sc/article36832810.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. promises probe into Pandora Papers||The Union Government has promised an investigation into the revelations in the Pandora Papers and assured appropriate action in such cases as per law, the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Monday evening. Stating that only “a few Indians” had been named in the papers so far, the Ministry said investigations in cases of the Pandora Papers leaks appearing in the media would be monitored through a multi-agency group. Anil Ambani, Vinod Adani, Jackie Shroff, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Niira Radia, Sachin Tendulkar and Satish Sharma, were among the 300 Indians mentioned in the list so far. “The government will also proactively engage with foreign jurisdictions for obtaining information in respect of relevant taxpayers and entities,” the Ministry said, adding that India was part of an Inter-Governmental Group that ensured “collaboration and experience sharing to effectively address tax risks associated with such leaks”.  ‘Keep a tab’ The multi-agency group headed by the Central Board of Direct Taxes Chairman, with representatives from the Enforcement Directorate, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Reserve Bank of India, would keep a tab of the phased disclosures from the Pandora Papers indicated by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) website, the Ministry said.  The ICIJ website suggests that information will be released in phases and structured data connected to the Pandora Papers investigation will be released only in the days to come on its Offshore Leaks Database. “It may be noted that following earlier similar such leaks in the form of ICIJ, HSBC, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers, the government has already enacted the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, with an aim to curb black money, or undisclosed foreign assets and income by imposing suitable tax and penalty on such income,” the Ministry pointed out. Undisclosed credits of approximately Rs. 20,352 crore had been detected in the investigations carried out in the Panama and Paradise Papers by September 15.  Rights group Oxfam India had called for immediate action by authorities and abolishing tax havens following the expose of the Pandora Papers. “Tax havens cost governments around the world $427 billion each year. Developing countries are being hardest hit, proportionately. Corporations and the wealthiest individuals that use tax havens are outcompeting those who don’t. Tax havens also help crime and corruption to flourish,” Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar said. Abolishing tax havens could go a long way towards ensuring that governments actually had the access to tax revenue they need to fund quality public expenditure, he added.  Many of the persons whose names figure on the list had rejected financial misdoings. Among others, Ms. Mazumdar-Shaw, Biocon chief, on Monday said her husband’s offshore trust was bonafide and legitimate. “Media stories reporting on Pandora Papers wrongly implicate my husband’s offshore trust, which is a bonafide, legitimate trust and is managed by Independent Trustees. No Indian resident holds “the key” to the trust as alleged in these stories,” Ms. Mazumdar-Shaw said in a tweet.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-promises-probe-into-pandora-papers/article36832777.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unions demand SC probe||Farm unions protested in various parts of the country on Monday demanding a Supreme Court investigation into the deaths of farmers allegedly run over by vehicles in a Union Minister’s convoy in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh the previous afternoon. At the same time, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha platform of the protesting unions responded to the comments made in the court on Monday, defending its right to protest against the farm reform laws even while the issue is in the court. Protests began overnight, with candlelight vigils and highways being jammed at several locations such as Ambala, Kurukshetra, Chandigarh and Puranpur, according to the SKM. Farmers also poured into Tikunia, the town where the bodies of the dead farmers were kept. Later in the day, farm unions and political workers protested in front of the offices of District Collectors in a number of States, submitting copies of a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind to district officials with the demand that Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra be immediately dismissed from his post and a case filed against him for inciting violence and spreading communal hatred. They also urged that Mr. Mishra’s son and others associated with the attack not only be booked under Section 302 (murder) but also arrested immediately, calling for the case to be handled by a Special Investigation Team under the supervision of the Supreme Court. In Delhi, an agitation was held in front of Uttar Pradesh Bhavan by the youth and women’s wings of the Congress, as well as farm unions and workers affiliated to Leftist parties. Protesters were detained by the police and then released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-demand-sc-probe/article36832784.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drone-based vaccine delivery model launched||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya launched the ICMR’s drone response and outreach in the north-east (i-Drone) here on Monday. The delivery model is aimed at ensuring that life-saving vaccines reach everyone. “This is for the first time that a ‘Make in India’ drone has been used in South Asia to transport COVID vaccine over an aerial distance of 15 km in 12-15 minutes from the Bishnupur district hospital to Loktak lake, Karang island in Manipur for administration at the primary health centre. The actual road distance between these locations is 26 km. Today, 10 beneficiaries will receive the first dose and eight will receive the second dose at the primary health centre,’’ said the Minister.  “India is home to geographical diversities and drones can be used to deliver essentials to the last mile. We can use drones in delivering important life-saving medicines, collecting blood samples. This technology can also be used in critical situations. It may prove a game changer in addressing the challenges in health care delivery, particularly health supplies, in difficult areas.” Tough terrain Launching the initiative which would facilitate vaccine delivery to tough and hard-to-reach terrains, the Health Minister said incorporating such technologies into the national programmes would help deliver other vaccines and medical supplies too as quickly as possible. The delivery model would serve remote areas and hard to reach terrains. Currently, the drone-based delivery project has been granted permission for implementation in Manipur and Nagaland, as well as the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The ICMR conducted an initial study in collaboration with the IIT Kanpur to test the capacity of the drones to carry and transfer vaccines safely. The study was conducted in Manipur, Nagaland and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. These studies provided promising results on the basis of which the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and other regulatory authorities have granted permission to fly drones beyond the visual line of sight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drone-based-vaccine-delivery-model-launched/article36832795.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Court seeks model builder-buyer pact||The Supreme Court on October 4 stepped in to protect home buyers from exploitation by builders who delay transfer of possession and often re-draft delivery schedules. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna issued notice on a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay on the lack of a “uniform or model” form for agreements entered into between builders, agents and buyers. Justice Chandrachud said Mr. Upadhyay, in his petition, had brought to the fore a “very serious issue”. Hard-earned savings of ordinary citizens who aspired to have their own homes were invested, but many families became penniless waiting for a roof over their heads that the builders had promised them. The petition said the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act of 2016 had hardly been implemented. ‘Ensure transparency’ “Frame a model builder-buyer agreement and model agent-buyer agreement to infuse transparency, ensure fair play, reduce frauds and deliberate delays, restrain builders/promoters/agents from indulging into arbitrary, unfair and restrictive trade practices and to protect the rights and interests of customers in the spirit of the RERA Act of 2016,” the petition said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for Mr. Upadhyay, and senior advocates Menaka Guruswamy and Anupam Lal Das drew the court’s attention to Section 41 and 42 of the RERA. The first provision mandated the establishment of a Central Advisory Council. The second Section said the Council would ensure the implementation of the Act, drive major policy changes, assure that consumer interests were not thwarted by builders and promoters and craft the faster growth of the real estate sector. Mr. Upadhyay said the builders, who had caused losses to buyers due to inordinate delays on the part of promoters/builders, should be asked to pay compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-seeks-model-builder-buyer-pact/article36832806.ece
05 October 2021||Mumbai,||Court extends NCB custody of Aryan, others till Oct. 7||A magistrate court in Mumbai on Monday extended the Narcotics Control Bureau’s custody of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha till October 7. The court also sent five others arrested in the alleged drug racket busted on a cruise to NCB custody till October 7. Mr. Khan, 23, Mr. Merchant, 26 and Ms. Dhamecha, 39, were arrested on October 3 and produced in court. The Additional Solicitor- General appearing for the NCB argued that the Central agency had seized 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MD (mephedrone), 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and Rs. 1,33,000 in cash at the International Cruise Terminal, Mumbai. He said the investigation revealed connections of the accused with the suppliers. In this connection, five others were also arrested. Mr. Singh said “shocking and incriminating” material was found from Mr. Khan’s mobile. He sought their custody till October 11, arguing, “Unless we investigate the consumer, how do we know who the supplier is and who is financing it?” However, advocate Satish Maneshinde, representing Mr. Khan, said nothing was recovered from him and whatever recovery was made was from the ship. He said no presumptions could show a nexus between him and the alleged crime. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R.M. Nirlekar said, “It is not disputed that as in the case of Rhea Chakraborty, all sections under Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances [NDPS] are non-bailable. I am of the view that the investigation is of prime importance. Considering this aspect, presence of the accused with NCB is necessary.” He then extended their NCB custody till October 7. Other arrested accused — Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker and Gomit Chopra — were also produced in court. Counsels for all these accused said the allegations were vague and were made in a casual manner. The court remanded them to NCB custody till October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-others-in-ncb-custody-till-oct-7/article36832775.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,||USA education loan festival attracts 3,000 applications||WeMakeScholars and The Hindu launched the ‘USA Education Loan Festival 2022’ for aspirants planning to study in the USA, and following the huge response to the event, more than 3,000 applications have been received so far. The USA Education Loan Festival, which began on October 2, is scheduled to go on till October 17 and has more than 10 public banks and private lenders taking part. Students participating in this event will be offered several benefits which include being eligible for both secured (with collateral) and unsecured (non-collateral) loans, lowest interest rates in India from 7.6% or at least 0.5% less than the usual rate of the bank or non-banking financial companies, and up to 50% discount on the processing fee for non-collateral loans. They will also benefit from faster processing of education loans — the timeline for sanction of non-collateral and collateral loans are four or five and 15 to 18 working days, respectively, a release said. As part of the loan festival, a YouTube Live event is being conducted on October 9 via the WeMakeScholars Channel. A detailed question-and-answer session will be held at the end of the event. Those interested can contact or WhatsApp the WeMakeScholars team at +91 9393344424, or can register at bit.ly/StudyUSA2022||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/usa-education-loan-festival-attracts-3000-applications/article36832808.ece
05 October 2021||Pune,||Fadnavis skips Beed during Marathwada tour||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who is on a tour of rain-hit Marathwada region, will be skipping Beed district during his visit to the stricken areas, sources said on Monday. The BJP leader, who began his tour of the region last week, said after assessing the situation in Latur, he would be proceeding to Osmanabad to take stock of the situation there and interact with flood-hit farmers. The conspicuous omission of Beed in Mr. Fadnavis’ itinerary has sparked speculation in some quarters that the real reason is his strained relationship with BJP national secretary Pankaja Munde, whose stronghold is Beed. However, quashing such speculation, Mr. Fadnavis’ aides said that Beed, Aurangabad and Jalna had never been part of the LoP’s itinerary to begin with. All eight districts in the region, including Beed, were severely hit by heavy showers last week, with lakhs of hectares of cropland destroyed. Ms. Munde unwell Ms. Munde, meanwhile, had tweeted that she was unwell the moment Mr. Fadnavis announced his four-day tour of Marathwada. “Unwell..tonsillitis n blisters in my throat adviced strick voice rest for 2 to 4 days ... can’t take calls or meet in person..,” Ms. Munde had tweeted on October 1. The coincidence caused many observers to suspect that Ms. Munde did not wish to be seen together with Mr. Fadnavis owing to their strained relations. In December 2019, Ms. Munde had staged a massive show of strength on the occasion of the birth anniversary of her father, the late Gopinath Munde, an architect of the BJP in Maharashtra. At the time, Ms. Munde, along with other OBC leaders like Eknath Khadse (now with the NCP) and former Minister Prakash Mehta, had squarely blamed Mr. Fadnavis, then the CM, for wrecking their political careers by allegedly engineering their defeats in the 2019 Assembly poll or denying them tickets. Ms. Munde had staged a ‘Swabhiman’ rally at Gopinathgadh in Beed’s Parli district where she, along with Mr. Khadse, had trained their guns on the BJP’s State leadership, while launching thinly veiled attacks on Mr. Fadnavis. Ms. Munde was defeated in the 2019 Assembly poll by her estranged cousin, Dhananjay Munde of the NCP, from the family stronghold in Parli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fadnavis-skips-beed-during-marathwada-tour/article36833146.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath releases two new DRDO policies||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday released two new policies of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) — Directed Research Policy (DRP) and Records Management Policy 2021. The Defence Minister was at an event to give away DRDO Young Scientists awards for the year 2019. Sixteen DRDO scientists, under the age of 35, were awarded for their outstanding contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-releases-two-new-drdo-policies/article36832766.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. moots changes to Forest Act||The document is open to public discussion for 15 days after which it could be readied for Cabinet and parliamentary approval. There is also a plan in the document that is now available on the Environment Ministry’s website, to exempt land acquired before 1980 — before the FCA came into effect — by public sector bodies such as the Railways. Currently, the document notes, there was “strong resentment” among several Ministries on how the Act was being interpreted over the right of way of railways, highways. As of today, a landholding agency (Rail, NHAI, PWD, etc.) is required to take approval under the Act and pay stipulated compensatory levies such as Net Present Value (NPV), Compensatory Afforestation (CA), etc. for use of such land which was originally been acquired for non-forest purposes. The Environment Ministry also proposes adding a clause to make offences under the modified Act punishable with simple imprisonment for a period which may extend to one year and make it cognisable and non-bailable. They also propose provisions for penal compensation to make good for the damage already done. The document also proposes removing zoos, safaris, Forest Training infrastructures from the definition of “non-forestry” activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-moots-changes-to-forest-act/article36832767.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses petition on cancellation of NEET-UG||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by several aspirants seeking the cancellation of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG 2021 examination held on September 12 due to alleged paper leak and malpractices. “What sort of writ petition have you filed? Lakhs of people have taken the exam. When one person comes to you, you will file a petition like this. You want us to cancel the exam? Over seven lakh students have attended it... Do you want to make them suffer?” Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked advocate Ninad Dogra, the lawyer for the petitioners.  ‘Open to complaints’ Mr. Dogra submitted that the court had itself stated that it was open to receiving complaints, even if it was injustice done to just one candidate. He argued that multiple first information reports (FIRs) had been filed alleging cheating and other malpractices in the exam. Answers were leaked on WhatsApp. The Bench, also comprising Justice B.R. Gavai, refused to budge, adding that it would not intervene in an exam where 7.5 lakh students had appeared. Dismissing the petition, the court threatened to impose Rs. 5 lakh in costs. “You know that the court will not cancel the exam in which 7.5 lakh people have taken the exam. This exam was conducted nationally and not locally,” Justice Rao addressed Mr. Dogra. The petitioners had sought a stay of the declaration of the NEET results during pendency, fresh exams and a direction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh police chiefs to file probe reports in the case in a week. They had urged the court to direct the CBI and the police chiefs of both States to file fact-finding reports on the alleged malpractices in NEET-UG 2021. The petitioners had asked the Supreme Court to direct the government, the National Testing Agency and the National Medical Commission to enhance the standard of security protocols. This would include biometric verification of candidates and use of jammers. The petition said this would help the exams to be conducted in a fair and transparent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-petition-on-cancellation-of-neet-ug/article36832768.ece
05 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Shringla pushes projects, connectivity in Sri Lanka||India on Monday underscored the need for early conclusion of bilateral projects in Sri Lanka, and the enhancement of connectivity by air and sea between the neighbouring countries, which are seeking to reset ties amid a strain in ties. Visiting Sri Lanka on a four-day visit beginning October 2, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Monday held talks with Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, Foreign Minister G.L. Peiris and Foreign Secretary Admiral Jayanath Colombage (retd.), discussing key bilateral issues, while focusing on recovery from the pandemic through enhanced cooperation in tourism and development partnership, according to tweets from the Indian High Commission in Colombo. In his remarks at the Temple Trees, the official residence of the Sri Lankan Prime Minister, Mr. Shringla said: “With the easing of the situation in Sri Lanka, it may be opportune for us to work on connectivity initiatives like the Jaffna to Chennai flight, ferry services between Karaikal and Kankesanthurai, and Dhanushkodi and Talaimanar and the Buddhist corridor with the new international airport at Kushinagar,” referring to halted, or delayed projects awaiting a push for revival or completion. A media release issued by the Sri Lankan Prime Minister’s office following his meeting with Mr. Shringla said India was looking forward to receiving the first pilgrims’ flight from Sri Lanka to Kushinagar airport in Uttar Pradesh — a popular destination for Buddhist pilgrims — that was now upgraded to an international airport. During his virtual bilateral summit with Mr. Mahinda last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a $15 million grant for the promotion of Buddhist ties, aimed at deepening “people-to-people linkages” between the two countries. “Prime Minister Rajapaksa appreciated Prime Minister Modi’s initiative to promote Buddhist ties. Secretary Shringla said it was a priority area of Prime Minister Modi,” the release said. The visiting Foreign Secretary also virtually launched a few India-backed projects from Colombo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-pushes-projects-connectivity-in-sri-lanka/article36832772.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers raise pitch, protest with bodies||His brother-in-law Makkan Singh questioned the narrative of Union Minister Mishra that the vehicle involved in the incident was en route to receive Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the helipad of the Maharaja Agrasen ground. Makkan Singh said the administration had informed the protesters that the Deputy Chief Minister’s route had been changed but even then three cars belonging to Mr. Mishra’s convoy drove towards the farmers lined up on either side of the road at full speed. “It was a planned murder,” Mr. Singh said. Next to Lovepreet’s body lay that of Nachattar Singh, 60. Hearing the news of Nachattar’s death, his younger son, Mandeep, 25, an SSB jawan, left his post in Almora for Tikonia. The family is from Dhauraha in Kheri. With the rest of his family, Mandeep sat in silent grief, as his mother was being consoled by relatives. Mandeep, too, blamed the administration and repeated the allegation made by the local people that the police had saved Ashish. Anger against the Union Minister has been simmering ever since his speech on September 25 when he asked the protesting farmers to “mend themselves” or else he would not take “more than two minutes” in clashes to do it himself if they faced him. He had also reminded the people of his record before he was elected a public representative. The Sikh community, which has been at the forefront of the farm protest in Terai, where they own and farm large tracts of land in Kheri and Pilibhit and adjoining districts, perceived it as threat. Kheri SP Vijay Dhull said the bodies of the four persons who died in clashes after the vehicles ran over the farmers had been sent for post-mortem and now those of the farmers would follow. The officer, however, said he was not sure how the other four persons were killed, amid allegations that some were lynched by the angry farmers after the cars ran amok. “Some say they were beaten up, some say the cars they were in overturned,” he said. At the site, two vehicles belonging to the convoy of the Union Minister were set on fire and on Monday they were sites of intrigue for all visitors. Eyewitnesses in Tikonia said the three vehicles raced towards them and mowed down the farmers without a warning. The farmers said they had earlier shown black flags to a block pramukh and the Union Minister’s brother-in-law. They also claimed that they had allowed several other cars to pass through before the incident. Sher Singh, a farmer, alleged that Ashish had tried to flee after the vehicle he was in overturned. Mr. Singh also alleged that the Union Minister’s son shot dead one of the farmers who tried to catch him as he tried to escape the crowd. After this, he fired several shots in the air to keep the farmers away before police rescued him, alleged Mr. Singh. However, Ashish has denied the allegations and told a news agency that he had been at an ancestral event at his village in Banveerpur from 9 a.m. till the end of the programme. “I was not at the incident site,” he said. Farmers, however, claimed they saw him in a vehicle brandishing a pistol. “He had come to the site deliberately to show his might, and scare the farmer,” said Harpal Singh, another farmer. Gurjant Singh, another local, alleged that the police helped Ashish escape from the site. Among the eight who died was Raman Kashyap, a local journalist who was covering the protests. How he died remained unresolved, especially for his family. His father, Ram Dulare, while returning after his cremation, said he suspected his son died after being crushed by the cars. Mr. Dulare submitted a police complaint naming both sides, but said he was sure it was a car that took his son’s life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-raise-pitch-protest-with-bodies/article36832773.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Response to violence reflects BJP’s dilemma||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Monday called for restraint and patience in dealing with protesting farmers a day after eight people died in violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. In a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Mr. Gandhi said a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC should be lodged against those involved in the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and a CBI inquiry instituted. The MP from Pilibhit also demanded a compensation of Rs. 1 crore for families of the dead. Mr. Gandhi, who has written earlier too on the various issues affecting farmers, said, “Agitating farmer-brothers are our own citizens,” and urged that the government should deal with them with great restraint and patience. “In any case, we should treat our farmers with sensitivity and only in Gandhian and democratic ways within the ambit of the law,” he added. Not law and order issue In a similar vein, former BJP ideologue K.N. Govindacharya too counselled that the Uttar Pradesh Government should not treat the issue and the events in Lakhimpur Kheri as just a “law and order” problem but acknowledge the scope and complication of the issue of a long-running movement by farmers’ groups and look for a solution that can satisfy all. The attempt of leaders of various political parties to reach Lakhmipur Kheri and the local administration’s actions in actively preventing them from reaching there also displayed the dilemma within the BJP response to the situation. The party did not respond officially to the events in Lakhimpur Kheri, allowing the State unit and Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra to speak instead. However, the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) did put out a statement that reflected some of the concerns within the RSS’s ideological universe. The BKS statement said those who were involved in the incident “were not farmers, they were from various political parties, and deployed ways of Leftist parties in this situation.” “We condemn the incident and want a fair, independent enquiry and suitable punishment to those who are guilty,” said the statement. All of this points to the fact that the long duration of the protests against the three farm laws (11 months) is not something that is desired by the BJP. Sources in the party said incidents like what had happened in Lakhimpur Kheri would not have been possible if the protests had not been allowed to linger and cross State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/response-to-lakhimpur-reflects-bjps-dilemma/article36832782.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Supreme Court lashes out at farmers’ groups||“But how can there be protests when the matter is sub judice here? Why are there protests when the laws have been kept in abeyance? It is intriguing, there is no Act in place at the moment. The Act is stayed. The Government has assured it will not give effect to it... So what is this protest for,” Justice Khanwilkar, flanked by Justice C.T. Ravikumar on the Bench, asked Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ organisation. The farmers’ body wanted to sit on a ‘satyagraha’ at the Jantar Mantar. Justice Khanwilkar said the farm laws were passed by Parliament. “The government is also bound by the laws passed by Parliament... We are on principle here, once you go to court, how can the same party say that matter is before court, nevertheless I will still protest,” the judge observed. The court, in its order, decided to frame legal questions in the issue. The Bench said it would first decide whether the right to protest was an “absolute right”. The court said it would decide whether farmers’ bodies could resort to protests on a subject — the legality of three farm laws — which was already sub judice . “First, we will decide these legal questions and then we will examine your question [whether permission can be granted to sit on ‘satyagraha’ at the Jantar Mantar],” Justice Khanwilkar told the Kisan Mahapanchayat. The SC fixed the case for final hearing on the two legal questions on October 21. It ordered the transfer of a case filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat in Rajasthan High Court on the same issue to itself. The Bench asked the Centre to file a consolidated counter-affidavit. On October 1, the Supreme Court had accused farmers of strangling the city with their protest against agricultural laws. “On one hand you have been strangulating the entire city and blocked highways... Now you want to enter the city and protest here?” Justice Khanwilkar had lashed out at the farmers’ body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-lashes-out-at-farmers-groups/article36832778.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||SC notice to 43 groups on right to move freely||The Supreme Court on Monday asked 43 farmers’ organisations and leaders listed by the Haryana Government to respond to a petition filed by a Noida resident who claims her right to free movement on public roads has been choked by their protests to repeal three controversial farm laws. A Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh issued notice to 43 individuals and entities, including farmers’ leaders such as Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, and Gurnam Singh. The Haryana and Uttar Pradesh Governments had earlier told the court that farmers’ leaders and organisations, on protest now for nearly a year, did not respond to invites for talks by the authorities. The State Governments had turned to the court for help. The court, in the previous hearing, asked Haryana to file an application identifying farmers' entities involved in the protest to make them parties in the case. The State filed an application naming 43 entities and individuals, and urged the court to make them respondents in the case. “Let notice be issued by the court to them so they do not have an excuse not to come,” Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for Haryana, submitted. While issuing notice, the court scheduled a hearing on October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-to-43-groups-on-right-to-move-freely/article36832780.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||70% of adult population has got first dose: Centre||Seventy per cent of India’s adult population has been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday, as the total doses given across the country crossed 91 crore. According to officials, 25% of the adult population had got both doses of the vaccine. “Strong Nation, Rapid Vaccination: India has administered the first dose of #COVID19 vaccine on 70% of the population... Under PM @NarendraModiji, India is achieving new landmarks in the fight against the pandemic. Keep it up India, let us fight Corona,” the Minister said in a tweet. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country under the nationwide anti-coronavirus inoculation drive crossed 91 crore on Monday. More than 5.67 crore (5,67,37,905) balance and unutilised vaccine doses were still available with the States and Union Territories. Monthly doses up According to government data, the average daily doses administered in a month increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in September has been 79.08 lakh per day. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/70-of-adult-population-has-got-first-dose-centre/article36832792.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||SC adjourns hearing of West Bengal’s suit||The Supreme Court on Monday adjourned the hearing of a suit filed by West Bengal alleging that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was probing several cases and registering first information reports (FIRs) without taking prior consent from the State Government. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai had to reschedule the case to October 22, post the Dasara holidays, on finding that there was no representation in the court from the Centre’s side. “There will be no more adjournments... There is no appearance for the Union of India today,” Justice Rao noted. The West Bengal government, in its original civil suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, had referred to the provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, and said that the Central agency had been proceeding with investigations and filing FIRs without getting the nod from the State government as mandated under the statute. The CBI has lodged multiple FIRs in cases of post-poll violence in West Bengal. The Supreme Court had issued notice in the suit in early September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-adjourns-hearing-of-bengals-suit/article36832769.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Survey on water supply in 500 cities’||A survey on household water supply and the condition of waterbodies in 500 cities will be carried out in 2022, officials of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said. As a part of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0, which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 1, water balance plans would be created for all cities. The survey — Pey Jal Survekshan — would be carried out in 500 cities with a population of above 1 lakh each, which were covered under the first iteration of AMRUT, said D. Thara, Joint Secretary in the Ministry and AMRUT Mission Director. The survey would be started “next year”, she said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survey-on-water-supply-in-500-cities/article36832764.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC may not hear poll bond case on Friday||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed doubts about hearing, before the Dasara holidays, a pending challenge against the government’s electoral bond scheme and amendments to the Finance Act of 2017, which allows for “unlimited donations from individuals and foreign companies to political parties without any record of the sources of funding.” Making an urgent oral mentioning before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, advocate Prashant Bhushan said the petition had been listed for Friday and should be heard that day. However, the CJI voiced reservations about whether the Bench would be able to hear the case on Friday, which is the last day before the court closes for Dasara holidays. The CJI, however, said the court would take a call on the case on Friday when it is called. The government has justified the electoral bonds scheme as a bid to promote transparency in funding and donation received by political parties. However, the Election Commission had filed an affidavit in 2019, saying the government’s electoral bonds scheme for political funding has legalised anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-may-not-hear-poll-bond-case-on-friday/article36832804.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka skips CRPF cover on way to Kheri||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra blindsided her security detail on Sunday night, giving them the slip on at least three occasions before she was detained by the Uttar Pradesh police at Sitapur. The Congress general secretary was stopped when she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri where four farmers were among eight persons killed in a protest on Sunday afternoon. Ms. Vadra has been accorded Z-plus security cover by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in November 2019 after the Centre removed the Special Protection Group security cover. A senior Government official said Ms. Vadra, who reached Lucknow from Delhi on Sunday evening, told the CRPF personnel that she would leave for Lakhimpur Kheriat 8 a.m. on Monday. “Instead, without informing the team, she started for Kheri at night. She changed cars thrice and the CRPF team lost her on all the occasions,” the official said. None of the CRPF personnel in her proximate security ring was present when she was detained by the police at Sitapur, around 45 km from Kheri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-skips-crpf-cover-on-way-to-kheri/article36832790.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||I-T Dept. conducts searches against entities who parked Rs. 750 crore of undisclosed funds abroad||The Income Tax (I-T) Department has conducted searches against some entities and individuals who, through a Dubai-based financial service provider, had parked about Rs. 750 crore of undisclosed funds overseas in the past decade. The search and seizure operation, launched on September 30, has so far covered 37 premises in Noida, Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru. The funds were parked in bank accounts in Switzerland, UAE, Malaysia and several other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-conducts-searches-against-entities-who-parked-rs-750-crore-of-undisclosed-funds-abroad/article36832802.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka Gandhi’s ‘Indira moment’, say party colleagues after video of argument with U.P. police||A short video of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra fiercely arguing with Uttar Pradesh police officials, moments after she was detained at Sitapur while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri early on Monday, has not only gone viral but has become a rallying point for party colleagues. The angry avatar of Ms. Vadra has led party colleagues and social media users to compare her to grandmother Indira Gandhi’s arrest 44 years ago to this day. In the video, she is seen questioning the police officials under what authority they were trying to push her into a police vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-gandhis-indira-moment-say-party-colleagues-after-video-of-argument-with-up-police/article36832785.ece
05 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Yogendra Yadav for Supreme Court-monitored SIT into Lakhimpur violence||Social activist and Jai Kisan Andolan founder Yogendra Yadav on Monday demanded immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra from the Union Cabinet and a probe by Supreme Court-monitored Special Investigation Team into Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur district of Uttar Pradesh. “We have seen how the ruling party has resorted to violence, terrified by the farmer stir in Lakhimpur where son of MoS of Home ran over farmers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogendra-yadav-for-supreme-court-monitored-sit-into-lakhimpur-violence/article36832779.ece
05 October 2021||Kolkata,||Killing Raaj not Ram Rajya in U.P.: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday targeted the BJP Government in Uttar Pradesh over the death of farmers during a protest, saying it was “Killing Raj” not “Ram Rajya” in that State. The Trinamool Congress chairperson also attacked the BJP government at the Centre alleging that what was going in the country was not democracy but autocracy. “They call it Ram Rajya. What kind of Rajya it is? It is ‘Killing Raj’,” Ms. Banerjee told presspersons after visiting a gurdwara at Bhabanipur in her constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/killing-raaj-not-ram-rajya-in-up-mamata/article36832789.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. mulls higher penalty for cruelty against animals||The Union Government is planning to introduce a higher penalty and jail term for persons perpetrating cruelty against animals and a draft Bill to amend the existing law is likely to come up in the next Parliament session. “We are ready with the draft amendment Bill. We are in the process of getting the Cabinet approval,” Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Poultry Minister Parshottam Rupala said on Monday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-mulls-higher-penalty-for-cruelty-against-animals/article36832791.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Former bureaucrat Shakti Sinha passes away||Shakti Sinha, former bureaucrat and an academician who had served as the Private Secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, passed away on Monday. He was 64. Sinha, a 1979-batch IAS officer, was also former Director of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML). He had worked closely with Vajpayee between 1996 and 1999, and had written a memoir titled Vajpayee: The Years That Changed India .PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-bureaucrat-shakti-sinha-passes-away/article36832793.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Navy to host its largest exercise||India is set to host its largest naval exercise, Ex Milan, early next year for which 46 countries have been invited, a senior Defence official said. “Ex Milan is being planned for February 2022 and invites have been sent to 46 countries. Several of them have already confirmed their participation,” the official said. The exercise will see the participation of all Quad countries with the U.S. being invited for the first time. Milan, which began in 1995, is held biennially and brings together Navies of all the countries in the region. It has so far been held at Port Blair but is now being shifted to Visakhapatnam which offers more space and infrastructure, the official said. The invitees include all Indian Ocean littoral states and countries from South East Asia. For the 2020 edition, 40 countries were invited but the exercise was cancelled due to the pandemic. The 10th edition in 2018 saw the participation of 20 ships. There has been a huge increase in the Navy’s engagements in the Indo-Pacific with several countries keen on exercising with India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-to-host-its-largest-exercise/article36832765.ece
05 October 2021||Patna,||Pappu Yadav gets bail in 32-year-old kidnapping case||Former MP from Madhepura and president of the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) Rajesh Ranjan, alias Pappu Yadav, got bail on Monday in a 32-year-old kidnapping case. Mr. Yadav has been in jail since May 11, 2021. Additional District Judge of Madhepura Civil Court Nishikant Thakur granted bail to Mr. Yadav for lack of evidence in the kidnapping case registered against him in 1989 at the Murliganj police station in Madhepura district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pappu-yadav-gets-bail-in-32-year-old-kidnapping-case/article36832801.ece
05 October 2021||Mumbai,||Pilot demands probe by Supreme Court judge in drugs seizure at Mundra port||Rajasthan Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Monday demanded a probe headed by a sitting Supreme Court judge in the seizure of drugs worth Rs. 21,000 crore at the Mundra port alleging that the BJP government in Gujarat was trying to suppress the issue. “This is an anti-national activity of infecting the youth with poison,” said Mr. Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-demands-probe-by-supreme-court-judge-in-drugs-seizure-at-mundra-port/article36832800.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches software to aid in police probes||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday launched a face recognition software to aid the police in investigations. The software will help compare the photos of suspects with a database of over 5.30 lakh photos uploaded in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). Sharing of information The software is expected to help track down accused persons, suspects, missing persons and unidentified corpses with the data sourced from the CCTNS, an official release said. If an accused person or a suspect is involved in another offence being probed by another police station, the information about him/her would be shared between them. It will also help in checking whether there is a history-sheet behind a person or any warrant has been pending. The software can be installed in the work stations of police stations as well as in the smartphones of police personnel on the field, the release said. There is a plan to improve the software to identify faces in CCTV footage. This will help in locating those who the police search for and missing persons at bus, railway or air termini or at the venues of festivals. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Home Secretary S.K. Prabakar, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Additional Director-General of Police Vinit Dev Wankhede (State Crime Records Bureau) and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-software-to-aid-in-police-probes/article36832932.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case count falls below 1,500||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu fell further on Monday to 1,467. So far, 26,69,962 persons have been infected in the State, and 16,864 patients are under treatment. So far, 1,00,038 children aged below 12 have been infected. Chennai district continued to have the highest number of fresh cases, with 181 persons testing positive. Coimbatore recorded 155 cases, and Chengalpattu 103. Fewer than 10 fresh cases emerged in Ariyalur (6), Perambalur (5), Ramanathapuram (8), Tenkasi (2) and Theni (7). With the discharge of 1,559 persons, the total number of recovered patients has gone up to 26,17,432. In Chennai, 189 persons were discharged and 1,917 persons are under treatment. So far, 5,50,582 persons have been infected, 5,40,170 have been discharged and 8,495 persons have died in the district. According to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, 16 persons died, taking the toll to 35,666. All the dead had some pre-existing health conditions. Four persons died in Chennai and three in Thanjavur. In Madurai and Tiruvallur each, two persons lost their lives to the infection. One death each was recorded in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Thoothukudi. Three persons among those who died were aged 45-48. The youngest was a 45-year-old diabetic woman from Pudukottai who was admitted to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on September 20. She tested positive on September 18. She died on Saturday of COVID-19 pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-case-count-falls-below-1500/article36832939.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cinemas must provide purified drinking water free of cost: HC||Cinemas, which do not allow patrons to carry even water bottles due to security concerns like the possibility of undesirable elements carrying liquor or even acid, must provide purified drinking water to them free of cost, the Madras High Court has ordered. Justice S.M. Subramaniam made it clear that it would not be sufficient for a theatre to provide any kind of water and that the government officials concerned must make sure that only purified drinking water was provided. The judge directed the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department officials to conduct periodical inspections in cinemas and ensure that they also maintain hygiene in the toilets. The Joint Commissioner of Legal Metrology was ordered to take prompt action on complaints received from cinema goers with regard to food items being sold at exorbitant prices. The orders were passed on a writ petition filed by an advocate clerk G. Devarajan in 2016. The petitioner had complained of a cinema theatre in Perambur of having charged him Rs. 30 for a 500 ml water bottle with a Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of Rs. 10 and Rs. 65 for a mango drink with a MRP of just Rs. 25. He sought action against the theatre for selling food articles at exorbitant prices. On the other hand, senior counsel Satish Parasaran, representing the theatre, told the court that dual MRP was permitted before 2017 and that manufacturers of food articles were allowed to sell their products at different prices depending upon the location where they were sold. However, the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules were amended with effect from January 1, 2018 and since then, the theatre had been selling food items only at MRP, he said. After recording his submissions, the judge directed the Joint Commissioner of Legal Metrology to conduct an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinemas-must-provide-purified-drinking-water-free-of-cost-hc/article36832929.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea filed against order to hunt tiger||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court challenging an order passed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) on October 1 to hunt tiger MDT23, which is suspected to have killed humans and livestock in Gudalur division of Nilgiris district. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu will be hearing the case on Tuesday. People for Cattle in India (PFCI), based in Chennai, had filed the case on the ground that the PCCF’s order was not in consonance with the guidelines issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The petitioner pointed out that the NTCA was a statutory body constituted under the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972 and its objective was to strengthen tiger conservation by retaining oversight through issuance of advisories or normative guidelines to forest authorities. Pointing out that the PCCF had issued hunting orders on the ground that MDT23 was dangerous to human life, the petitioner said the NTCA guidelines differentiate between human kills due to chance encounters and habituated animals that had become dangerous to human life. In its guidelines, the authority had clearly stated that tigers often use agriculture or sugarcane fields while feeding on livestock and such visits might also cause lethal encounters with human beings. “Such animals should not be declared as dangerous to human life,” the guidelines read. However, the NTCA had gone ahead to state that confirmed habituated tiger/leopard which stalk human beings and feed on the dead body are likely to be dangerous to human life and that such declaration requires considerable examination based on field evidences. The petitioner claimed that in the case of MDT23, there was no evidence to confirm habituation of stalking of human beings and avoiding natural prey. Merely because the forest officials were finding it difficult to capture the tiger alive could not be a reason to hunt it down, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-filed-against-order-to-hunt-tiger/article36832961.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women nagaswaram players to the fore||Though women have established their skill in the field of carnatic music on a par with men, not many of them could find an equally important space for themselves as nagaswaram and thavil artistes. In the past, Madurai M.S. Ponnuthai earned a name as a prominent nagaswaram player. Now, Kaleeshabi Mahaboob, a Padma Shri awardee, is a name to reckon with in that field. “But there are a lot of them. When we extended a helping hand during the pandemic, we came across over 60 women artistes. It was then we decided to feature them during the navarathri festival,” said Lalitha Ram, founder of Parivadini, an organisation dedicated to promoting carnatic music and musicians. The Navarathri Navasakthi series, to be webcast, will feature nine of them. The concerts were recorded at Kalyanapuram in the presence of the audience. All women artistes were paired with their husbands and accompanied by some of the best thavil players. “It will be easy for a woman to play [the instrument] with her husband. Unlike other carnatic concerts held in a fixed time, nagaswarm concerts organised mostly in marriages and temples, cannot be confined to a schedule. They will end late in the night and we prefer to team up with our husbands,” said Prabhavathi who will perform the first concert with her husband S.P. Palanivel. For Ms. Prabhavathi the sailing had been smooth so far because both her father Ramkrishnappa and mother Dhanalakshmiamma were nagaswaram players. “They sent me to learn from Tirupathi P. Renu, who had taught a lot of women like me. After the marriage, I settled in Bangalore,” she said. Only men In Tamil Nadu, the music schools started in 17 districts during the DMK regime between 1996 and 2001 provided an opportunity to women to learn nagaswaram. They can also learn it in the three music colleges in Chennai, Tiruvaiyaru and Madurai. “When I joined the University of Madras for a BA course in nagaswaram, I was disappointed because my classmates were only men. Since I have learnt the art from my father, I could face the situation confidently,” said B. Bageswari, who is now playing along with her husband P. Balaganesan. Ms. Bageswari, one of the women artistes performing in the Navasakthi series, also belongs to a family of nagaswaram players. She started learning the instrument at the age of seven from her father P.V.N. Devarajan. “But how many girls will get an opportunity to learn the instrument at home?” asked Ms. Bageswari, who shifted her base to Tiruvannamalai after her marriage. Her rendering of Shankar Mahadevan’s ‘Breathless’ song on social media recently became viral. Other performers are: Kaleeshabi Mahaboob and her husband; T.V. Vijayalakshmi and T.A. Viswanathan; S. Santhalakshmi and Soundararajan; T.K. Maheswari and T.C. Karunanidhi; S Shanti and K.S. Senthilmurugan; Prasanna Sivadass and Ochira V. Sivadass; T.V. Sankaree and T.P. Venkatesh.  When I joined the University of Madras for a BA course in nagaswaram, I was disappointed because my classmates were only men||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-nagaswaram-players-to-the-fore/article36832964.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow more moisture content in paddy: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday asked officials to request the Centre to increase the permissible level of moisture content in the paddy procured from farmers at direct procurement centres in view of the heavy rain in various parts of Tamil Nadu since last month. At a meeting he chaired at the Secretariat, he also asked the officials to pay the farmers at once for the paddy procured and visit the procurement centres in the Cauvery delta region to ensure smooth procurement. During the kharif marketing season 2020-21 ending September 30, 44.90 lakh tonnes of paddy had been procured by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, 12.50 lakh tonnes more than what was procured during the corresponding period last year, said an official release. For the kharif marketing season 2021-22, 752 direct procurement centres had so far been opened for paddy procurement, whereas only 608 centres were opened during the corresponding period last year, it said. The Collectors had been asked to permit the opening of additional procurement centres and mobile procurement centres, if need be. “For the first time, arrangements have been made to procure paddy only through online means for the benefit of farmers,” the release said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-more-moisture-content-in-paddy-stalin/article36832933.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Steps to check dengue in full swing||The dengue control and prevention measures have been intensified across Tamil Nadu with the deployment of 23,268 workers, Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. He was speaking to journalists after inspecting prevention measures being taken in the Adyar zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation. He said that in Chennai alone, 3,589 workers had been deployed for fogging, spraying of anti-larval chemicals and door-to-door visits to ensure that there was no water stagnation. A total of 7,757 construction sites had been identified in Chennai. As these sites were prone to water stagnation that would lead to the breeding of dengue-causing mosquitoes, inspections were being conducted at all the sites, he said. Pointing out that 2,930 dengue cases had been reported so far this year, Mr. Subramanian said the State conducted 83,409 dengue tests in the same period, four times more than the number of tests done earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-to-check-dengue-in-full-swing/article36832937.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination awareness drive to be launched||The Sundaram Group will conduct an awareness drive to increase the COVID-19 vaccination rate in the State, especially for the age group of 18-50 years, as part of its public service programme. “The public service programme will aim to tackle the root cause of hesitancy and reluctance people have towards the vaccine,” said Harsha Viji, executive vice-chairman, Sundaram Finance. According to him, it will have two or three layers in terms of execution. The first layer is the media, followed by a digital awareness programme and an outdoor campaign. “We have a significant ground-level presence across all our companies across the State, which we will be using to drive things down to the local level. Hopefully, that will have an extended impact. If you look at vaccine hesitancy in Tamil Nadu in particular, rural areas seem to be a larger issue and that is something we need to address at a local level,” he said. “About Rs. 7 crore has been earmarked for this programme,” Mr. Viji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-awareness-drive-to-be-launched/article36832945.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report on K.P. Park tenements submitted||The Centre for Urbanisation Buildings and Environment (CUBE), which was engaged to assess the quality of construction of the tenements built by the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) at Kesava Pillai Park, has submitted its report, running to 441 pages, on Monday. The content or key findings of the report were not made public. However, sources in the Housing and Urban Development Department said PST Engineering Construction, the private contractor who constructed the buildings, would be asked to fix the issues in construction raised by the committee. “The private contractor is liable to fix these issues as the building is within the shrinkage period of five years,” an official said. While the report is believed to have found lapses in the construction work, officials did not confirm if any action on the officials or the contractor had been recommended. “The report has made observations on the issues in the construction. We will decide on further action soon,” another official from the department said. A committee involving members of CUBE, an organisation formed in collaboration between IIT Madras and the Government of Tamil Nadu, was engaged to assess the quality of the building following complaints of poor quality of construction, particularly with the plastering work, a few months ago. The committee was constituted in the third week of August. It was initially expected to submit a report within three to four weeks. Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan, who is also handling the TNUHDB portfolio, said in the Assembly on September 1 that the committee would submit its report in two weeks. However, TNUHDB officials said CUBE asked for an extension. Soon after the complaints emerged, the TNUHDB had suspended two Assistant Engineers involved in quality control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-kp-park-tenements-submitted/article36832948.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KMC celebrates World Heart Day||The Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital’s Department of Cardiology celebrated World Heart Day recently by creating awareness on healthy eating and exercise to maintain a healthy heart. Heart attack and other non-communicable diseases have been on the rise due to improper diet, sedentary lifestyle and increasing mental stress. The hospital conducted an awareness programme among its patients and attendants by urging them to take up 30 minutes of brisk walking, jogging or swimming for at least five days a week. The department, set up in 1989, receives on an average 13,000 new outpatients and 45,000 old outpatients annually. While around 900 patients are admitted, the hospital performs around 12,000 echocardiographies every year. Within 2.5 years of establishing a catheterisation laboratory in the hospital, over 2,000 procedures had been performed, including angiogram, angioplasty, pacemaker implants and pericardiocentesis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmc-celebrates-world-heart-day/article36832950.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kathipara Urban Square may open this month||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is likely to open the Kathipara Urban Square, a multi-modal space near Alandur Metro station, within two weeks. Originally meant to be ready in May, the facility is now almost complete, sources said. The urban square is being constructed at a cost Rs. 14 crore over an area of 55,000 square metres under the Kathipara flyover. It will consist of bus bays, food stalls, retail outlets, a play area for children and landscaped space. A Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) official said: “Some landscaping and work on laying the roof tiles for the retail spaces will be done in a few days.” While the walking area and bus bays will be immediately available for public, the retails outlets and food kiosks will come up much later. CMRL has floated tenders to develop the space for retail outlets and other facilities, which will take a few months. The idea is to encourage people to use Alandur Metro station, the largest elevated connecting station in the phase I project. The square will be connected to the station to provide easy access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kathipara-urban-square-may-open-this-month/article36832966.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested in Tiruvottiyur railway station for theft of gold bars||The Kilpauk police arrested two persons at the Tiruvottiyur railway station for cheating an owner of a jewellery making unit of nearly 1 kg of gold within 24 hours of the complaint being filed on Monday. The two persons, identified as K. Arul of Poonamallee and C. Ramesh of Tiruvottiyur, were later produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. The police team is in search of their accomplice Tapan Rubidas, of West Bengal. A police official said a complaint was filed by A. Arunkumar, of Rajarathinam Street, Kilpauk, who was engaged in gold jewellery making. He had employed Arul, Ramesh and Tapan Rubidas. The three robbed him of nearly 1 kg of gold over a few years. 300 g of gold recovered The police immediately formed a special team and rounded up the two accused Arul and Ramesh at Tiruvottiyur railway station. Based on the initial investigation, the police recovered nearly 300 g of gold from various persons to whom the accused had sold the gold bars. The police have dispatched a team to West Bengal to nab Tapan Rubidas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-in-tiruvottiyur-railway-station-for-theft-of-gold-bars/article36832969.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Dept. sports ground in Mylapore opened to public||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu inaugurated the sports ground located in Mylapore on Monday. The facility, spread over 46 grounds, was retrieved by the HR&CE Department recently. Kapaleeshwarar temple After inaugurating the sports facility, Mr. Sekarbabu said the vacant land belonging to the Kapaleeshwarar temple was occupied by a private school, which owed a rent amount of Rs. 1 crore. While the school administration has deposited Rs. 18 lakh as first instalment amount, the HR&CE Department has directed the school to pay the rest. The sports ground can also be rented by private entities for events. The Minister said the department had retrieved more than 5,000 acres of temple land, valued at Rs. 1,130 crore, since the DMK under Chief Minister M.K. Stalin assumed power. A total of 188 cases relating to temple land encroachment are pending in courts. The HR&CE Minister said the department has proposed to survey the lands belonging to temples and would install boards on these lands to prevent encroachments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-dept-sports-ground-in-mylapore-opened-to-public/article36832971.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plan for satellite terminal at airport put on hold temporarily||A satellite terminal and twin tunnels, a key project that was planned at the airport, has now been put on hold temporarily as the air traffic has not seen a satisfactory growth. Three years ago, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) decided to build a satellite terminal and twin tunnels in the airside area as the existing terminals had become congested, making it difficult for passengers to go through check-in, immigration or even baggage collection owing to long delays on many occasions. Subsequently, alongside the phase II modernisation project — under which an integrated terminal is being built — the AAI had also chalked out a plan for the satellite terminal to better handle passenger traffic growth in the future. A feasibility report was prepared for the construction of this terminal with basic facilities; twin tunnels linking this terminal and the new integrated terminal were also under consideration as part of the plan. These would ferry both baggage and passengers between the two facilities. Lockdown effect But COVID-19 and the ensuing lockdown brought down the air traffic drastically. While the number of passengers and flights has been picking up, it is still a long way off from touching pre-pandemic numbers. According to officials of the Airports Authority of India, they may take a call on the need to go forward with the project later. “We have not dropped the project, but whether we need to invest another Rs. 2,000 crore for the tunnel and terminal will be reviewed in a few months based on how the passenger traffic grows. For now, we are keen on finishing the phase II modernisation project,” an official said. With an estimated cost of Rs. 2,500 crore, the new integrated terminal has been under construction for nearly two years and will be completed and operationalised in two phases in the next two years. “With the current growth, we think we should be able to manage with the new integrated terminal for the next few years,” another official said. However, there were talks of privatising the airport after four years, so it was unclear if the satellite terminal project would take off, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-for-satellite-terminal-at-city-airport-put-on-hold/article36832952.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC okays provisional tariff subsidy of Rs. 8,932.45 cr. to Tangedco for 2021-22||Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has given the nod for the government to provide a provisional net tariff subsidy of Rs. 8,932.45 crore to Tangedco for FY 2021-22. This includes an additional subsidy of Rs. 56.09 crore payable for FY 2019-20. Tangedco stated that the government had provided Rs. 8,834.68 crore in budget estimate for 2021-22 towards tariff subsidy. As per the approval, Rs. 3,469.02 crore would be provided to Tangedco towards free power supply to domestic consumers in 2021-22. The provisional tariff subsidy approved for 2020-21 was Rs. 3,377.37 crore for the domestic category. Bi-monthly consumption Tangedco estimated tariff subsidy for bi-monthly consumption up to 100 units at Rs. 637.55 crore. For consumption of above 100 units and up to 200 units, the tariff subsidy is estimated at Rs. 1,087.84 crore. For bi-monthly consumption of above 200 units and up to 500 units, the tariff subsidy is pegged at Rs. 1,398.35 crore and for above 500 units it is estimated to be Rs. 345.28 crore. Overall, the consumption across various domestic tariff subsidy categories is estimated to be 35,330.96 million units across 227.54 lakh service connections. For agriculture consumers under normal category, Tangedco estimated connected load at 1,39,79,143 horsepower for 2021-22. The subsidy payable by the government at the rate Rs. 2,875 per horsepower per annum and the total works to Rs. 4,019 crore for 2021-22, as per provisional approval by TNERC. It also approved a provisional subsidy of Rs. 789.81 crore for FY 2021-22 for agricultural consumers under self-finance scheme category. A provisional tariff subsidy of Rs. 181.38 crore for Hut consumers and Rs. 15.80 crore for place of public worship for 2021-22 have been approved. TNERC also granted provisional approval for tariff subsidy of Rs. 378.24 crore to powerloom weavers and Rs. 6.28 crore for handloom weavers for 2021-22. A sum of Rs. 16.83 crore has been approved towards subsidy for lift irrigation co-operative societies. TNERC noted that Tangedco is yet to submit the actual details of energy consumption and other load details for reconciliation of subsidy for FY 2020-21 and directed the State power utility to furnish the actual consumption and revenue assessed on or before October 31, 2021.  Tangedco is yet to submit the actual details of energy consumption and other load details for reconciliation of subsidy for FY 2020-21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-okays-provisional-tariff-subsidy-of-rs-893245-cr-to-tangedco-for-2021-22/article36833083.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PE-VC firms pump $415 mn into T.N.-based companies||Private equity and venture capital (PE-VC) firms invested $415 million across 18 deals in Tamil Nadu-based firms during the third quarter of this year, shows data from Venture Intelligence, a research service . The top PE-VC investments for the quarter, which ended on September 30, came into TVS Supply Chain Solutions ($136 million) followed by CredAvenue, the subsidiary of Vivriti Capital, which connects institutions, investors, small enterprises and individuals, who lack access to financial services in India ($90 million). Ki Mobility Solution raised $51 million from a fund managed by Exor, one of Europe’s leading holding companies. In terms of angel investments, during the third quarter of 2021 around 10 startups in the State received funding. Last year, during the same period, seven startups received angel funding. Fieldproxy, IppoPay, Chai Waale and NimbleBox.ai are some of the firms that received angel funding in recent months. Initial public offerings “While it is heartening to see the record pace of PE-VC investments in India sustaining, the highlight of the latest quarter was the successful initial public offerings (IPOs) of the Indian consumer market focused Zomato and the global enterprise software as a service (SaaS) focused Freshworks,” said Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence. “Such exemplary liquidity events will expand the share of the asset allocation pie that PE-VC investing in India commands from both domestic and foreign investors,” he added. During the same period in 2020, when businesses were slowly opening up post lifting of the first lockdown, PE-VC investors had put in $107 million across seven deals in T.N. firms. 840 deals At the national level, PE-VC firms invested a record $49 billion across 840 deals in Indian companies during the first nine months of 2021. These figures, which have already surpassed the full year investment total of $39.5 billion (across 892 deals) in the entire of 2020, represent a 52% increase over the $32.2 billion (across 651 deals) in the first nine months of 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pe-vc-firms-pump-415-mn-into-tn-based-companies/article36832958.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All co-op. societies must not be blamed for loan waiver irregularities: Raju||Former Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju said on Monday that if irregularities were found in the waiver of farm and gold jewellery loans, action must be taken against those responsible, but all cooperative societies must not be blamed. “If cooperative societies are blamed in general, members would lose trust in the cooperative movement and demand their deposits back. How will the societies function without deposits? So, action must be taken against only those who are involved in irregularities,” the AIADMK leader said in a statement. He also urged the government to take steps for the efficient functioning of the societies that formed the core of agriculture in rural areas. Mr. Raju said, “In its election manifesto and campaign, the DMK did not set any condition that the loans of only one member of a family would be waived.” Several families got gold jewellery loans, having been “misled” by the DMK’s promise. “The DMK’s promise is the reason for the confusion. Now, people are forced to pay interest on these loans unnecessarily.”  If cooperative societies are blamed in general, members would lose trust in the cooperative movement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-co-op-societies-must-not-be-blamed-for-loan-waiver-irregularities-raju/article36833062.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free medical camps at Metro stations||Chennai Metro Rail Limited and Forits Hospital conducted free medical camps at Tiruvottiyur and Chennai Airport Metro stations. Another camp will be held at the High Court Station on Wednesday and on Friday at New Washermenpet and Vadapalani stations from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-medical-camps-at-metro-stations/article36832946.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pseudophedrine seized||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized 8 kg of pseudophedrine at the airport from two consignments bound for Australia recently. Two consignments of hashish oil, on their way to Bahrain from Ernakulam, were also seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pseudophedrine-seized/article36832953.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Road named after freedom fighter||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday named a road in Erode district after late freedom fighter Tiruppur Kumaran on the occasion of his birth anniversary. During a virtual event at the Secretariat, Mr. Stalin unveiled the name board ‘Thiyagi Kumaran Road’. A main road in Sampath Nagar, opposite the Erode Collectorate, has been named after the freedom fighter, who is fondly known as ‘ Kodi Katha Kumaran’ . On October 3, the government issued a G.O. in this regard. The order followed a request made by the Collector after a resolution was adopted at the Erode Corporation Council meeting. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, Rajya Sabha member Anthiyur P. Selvaraj, Erode (East) MLA E. Thirumahan Everaa, Collector H. Krishnanunni, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and family members of the freedom fighter were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-named-after-freedom-fighter/article36832962.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Repco bank hands over dividend to CM||The Repco Bank handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.42 crore as 20% dividend to the State government on Monday. The dividend cheque was handed over to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin by D. Jagannathan, chairman of the bank. In a press release, the Repco Bank has earned a net profit of Rs. 61 crore, recording a growth of 9% over the previous financial year. The bank’s net worth now stands at Rs. 794 crore, with a capital to risk weighted assets ratio of 12.77%. The bank’s primary objective being rehabilitation of repatriates, it has implemented several schemes for 33,928 repatriates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repco-bank-hands-over-dividend-to-cm/article36832970.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB’s final film song released||Annaatthe Annaatthe , the first single from Superstar Rajinikanth’s upcoming film Annaatthe , was released on Monday, leaving fans of the late legendary singer S.P. Balasubramanyam in a state of joy and sadness, as the track is his final film song. Following the song’s release, actor Rajinikanth posted an emotional note remembering the singer, whose first death anniversary was observed recently. Taking to Twitter, Rajinikanth said, “For 45 years, SPB’s voice gave life to my characters. Not in my wildest dreams did I think that the song he sang for Annaatthe would be his last. My dear SPB. lives on through his voice (sic).” Written by Viveka, the song is a peppy number and is reported to be Rajinikanth’s introduction song in the film that has music by D. Imman. Directed by Siva, known for his family entertainers, Annaatthe is billed to be a family drama  and will hit screens on Deepavali this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spbs-final-film-song-released/article36832959.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Release white paper on power situation’||Pattali Makkal Katchi founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Monday demanded that the State government release a white paper periodically on how it plans to turn the electricity department, which is operating at a yearly loss of Rs. 13,000 crore and has a total debt of Rs. 1.59 lakh crore, profitable. AP decision In a statement, he pointed out that the Andhra Pradesh government had decided to give back Rs. 126 crore to the consumers in the first quarter of the year by reducing the cost of electricity purchased from companies. “The energy companies owned by Andhra Pradesh government have saved up to Rs. 126 crore in the last three months and Rs. 2,342 crore in the last two years. With the government fixing the cost of procurement at Rs. 4.55, the companies have procured power at Rs. 3.12/unit. This is the lowest price paid for a unit of electricity in the open market,” said Dr. Ramadoss. The PMK founder underlined the point that Tamil Nadu was buying an unit of electricity at Rs. 5.02 and sometimes at a maximum cost of Rs. 7/unit. He said the news made one wonder when Tamil Nadu Electricity Board would rake in profits. “In the last 15 years, the TNEB has been purchasing power from private companies at a high cost and have not implemented any power projects. Nobody can deny this,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss referred to the State government’s announcement that it would generate 17,970 MW by setting up power plants in the next 10 years. “The 5,700 MW power projects that have been in slumber can be finished in the next year. The rest can be implemented in the next 50 months.”   In the last 15 years, TNEB has been purchasing power from private companies at a high cost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-white-paper-on-power-situation-in-tn-ramadoss/article36833085.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASG says he recommended deferring of polls||Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan on Monday told the Madras High Court that he has made a recommendation to defer the Puducherry local body polls till the anomalies in the reservation of wards to the Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and others are set right. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, the ASG said he had written to the Chief Secretary, highlighting the anomalies, and suggested that the elections be postponed. Decision soon The letter was expected to be placed before the Chief Minister and a decision would be taken soon. The submission was made during the hearing of a couple of writ petitions which highlighted the anomalies in the reservation of wards and insisted on getting the election notification quashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asg-says-he-recommended-deferring-of-polls/article36833278.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress to protest against Lakhimpur deaths today||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Monday condemned the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur in which eight persons were killed. He asked the party workers to stage a protest all over the State on Tuesday against the detention of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. He said farmers were protesting across the country against the BJP government’s “atrocities” on those who had been protesting against the three farm laws. It was condemnable that the Uttar Pradesh police had stopped Ms. Vadra from meeting the families of the victims. To protest against the police high-handedness, Mr. Alagiri asked the Congress workers to protest in front of the Collectorates across the State. ‘Yogi must quit’ Earlier in the day, Congress Legislature Party leader K. Selvaperunthagai led a protest against the “brutality of the BJP towards farmers” and the detention of Ms. Vadra. “[Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi] Adityanath must apologise to Ms. Vadra for the conduct of the police and resign,” he said. Tamil Nadu Youth Congress members staged a protest at Satyamurthy Bhavan, the Congress headquarters. Velachery MLA Aassan Maulaana led the agitation, in which an effigy of Mr. Adityanath was burnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-to-protest-against-lakhimpur-deaths-today/article36832930.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teach DMK a lesson, says AIADMK||AIADMK leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday appealed to the voters in nine poll-bound districts to teach a lesson to the DMK government, which they claimed had “lost its popularity” over the past four months. In a joint statement, the AIADMK leaders alleged that the DMK, which won the Assembly election by making “unimplementable” promises, would attempt the same tactic for the rural local bodies elections. Referring to the orders passed by the Madras High Court on the pleas of the AIADMK against the two-phase elections, they said, “The DMK, which does not respect the Assembly or the courts, would not mind these orders.” Recalling the 10-year-rule of the AIADMK, they claimed that only their party could deliver good governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teach-dmk-a-lesson-says-aiadmk/article36832936.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK flays nod for n-waste centre at Kudankulam||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan opposed the Centre’s move to provide clearance for Kudankulam nuclear plant to set up nuclear waste centre within its premises stating that it is a ‘dangerous move’. In a statement issued here on Monday, the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder said any accident could lead to severe repercussions. The Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan suffered a great deal because the waste was stored on premises itself, the VCK leader said. Mr. Thirumavalavan pointed out that the Supreme Court said in a case filed by Poovulagin Nanbargal that nuclear waste should not be stored within the premises and that it should be stored in a deep geological repository. “The deadline was extended till 2022. To provide clearance to setting up a space to manage nuclear waste within the premises was akin to playing with people’s lives,” Mr.Thirumavalavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-opposes-nod-for-n-waste-centre-at-kudankulam-plant/article36833086.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two Corporation wards record over 98% vaccination||Two wards in the city have over 98% of the population getting at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccination. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said 99.75% of the eligible population in Ward 96 (Kurichi) and 98.73% in Ward 11 (K.K. Pudur) had taken at least one dose of vaccine. Of the 13,340 persons in Ward 96, the Corporation had identified 10,790 persons to be over 18 years of age. Of those, 10,764 persons had taken at least one dose of vaccine. Likewise, of the 7,932 persons in Ward 11, the Corporation had identified 6,708 to be eligible for vaccination and recorded that 6,623 had been vaccinated. The sources said that while four persons refused to get vaccinated in Ward 96, it was 10 in Ward 11. The Corporation had asked its field staff to take it in writing from those persons that they were unwilling to get vaccinated. The high percentage of vaccination in those wards was recorded after fever survey volunteers went door-to-door to record vaccine status, identify persons who had not taken vaccines and deliver vaccines at doorstep to those who were willing to take vaccines. The survey volunteers passed on the information to the staff at the nearest urban primary health centres, from where medical staff went to houses to administer vaccines. Majority of such persons who took vaccines at houses were the elderly or those under medication and could not wait in queues at vaccination centres. The sources also said that among those excluded from vaccination in the wards were those with acute illness or those who had suffered from COVID-19 in the last 90 days. The Corporation had asked its staff to start randomly verifying vaccination certificates of people in those wards and also record details of those who had taken vaccines in private hospitals or other districts to cross verify their claims. Meanwhile, the Corporation was also identifying wards with high vaccination percentage to take those to the 100% vaccine status – at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-corporation-wards-record-over-98-vaccination/article36832988.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Beautification works in tanks pose a threat to water birds in Coimbatore district||Developmental activities and beautification works in various tanks in Coimbatore district could seriously hamper the habitats of the avifauna, experts and nature enthusiasts warn. Clearing of bushes, plants and trees on the sides of the water bodies for beautification works and strengthening of bunds have caused damage to the habitats of many birds, primarily water birds, they say. According to P. Pramod, senior principal scientist with the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, the traditional wetland system in Coimbatore has changed over the years, making them less friendly for avian visitors. “The tanks in the Noyyal system were designed for seasonal storage of water with natural draining. They had sluices for draining water as against the overflow system now. Tanks with water to its brim will only attract floating birds like pelicans and ducks. Waders, plovers and sandpipers will not be able to use them due to the absence of shorelines and shallow water areas. Developmental works were carried out in the tanks without considering the ecological aspects,” he said. While the works and beautification were done in some of the tanks under the Smart Cities Mission, a few other tanks were ‘strengthened’ by the Water Resources Department of the Public Works Department (PWD) under its ‘Extension, renovation and modernisation of Noyyal River system in Cauvery Basin’. “Kannampalayam tank used to be an excellent place to observe different species of birds, mainly shore birds. Now, the tank is full of water which cannot be used by any of the shore birds,” said Prasath Selvaraj, an independent researcher, who has been observing water birds in some of the tanks as part of his research. Apart from resident birds, the tanks also attract migratory birds. “Lesser sand plover, Pacific golden plover, Curlew sandpiper and Spotted redshank are among the migrant shore birds that stay for a short period in some of the tanks in Coimbatore. Such birds will skip the tanks if they do not have shorelines,” he said. Sensing the dangers in the unscientific developmental works, Mr. Selvaraj submitted petition to the Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary, Coimbatore District Collector and the PWD in September 2020. However, no productive measure was taken. D. Gajamohanraj, a city-based wildlife photographer and nature enthusiast, said that removal of vegetation on the shores of tanks such as bushes, reeds and trees will reduce space for nesting and roosting. “Such growths on the sides of tanks should be left free for various species of birds and animals,” said Mr. Gajamohanraj, a regular visitor to many of the tanks here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beautification-works-in-tanks-pose-a-threat-to-water-birds-in-coimbatore-district/article36832996.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose land acquisition for industrial estate near Annur||Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayeegal Sangam (a farmers’ association) have opposed the State Government’s move to acquire land for establishing an industrial estate near Annur. In a petition submitted to Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday, the association led by T. Venugopal said the State Government had proposed to acquire 1,504 hectare in four revenue villages in Annur and two in Mettupalayam blocks for establishing an industrial estate. The move had come as a rude shock to over 50,000 people who were looking for brighter prospects as the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme was to be implemented. Not only farmers but farm labourers were also shocked by the Government’s move. People in five panchayats had passed resolutions opposing the move, sent petitions to the Chief Minister and taken several democratic steps to oppose the industrial estate plan. The district administration should intervene on farmers’ behalf to place their grievances before the Government and get the plan scrapped, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-land-acquisition-for-industrial-estate-near-annur/article36832976.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||G.O. on land acquisition welcomed||The Government Order dated September 23 on sanctioning of funds to acquire land for expansion of the Coimbatore International Airport is a landmark decision that will benefit the entire western region of the State, according to A. Sakthivel, chairman of Kongu Global Forum, and Vanitha Mohan, its vice chairperson. The Central government is only waiting for the land to be handed over so that it start works to expand the airport and the runway. The land acquisition issue is on for more than seven years and Kongu Global Forum has been actively pursuing it for nearly six years, along with other associations, they said. When a new government was formed for the State, the Forum and other associations sought priority for airport expansion. “Coimbatore is the catchment area for not only the entire western region of the State but also for a couple of districts in Kerala,” says Ms. Mohan. This is the single largest allocation for the project and the Forum welcomes the orders. “Now, we will work with the government to expedite and complete the land acquisition process,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-on-land-acquisition-welcomed/article36832977.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from police quarters||Unknown persons broke into a house at the police quarters in Gandhipuram and took away 4.5 sovereigns of jewellery. The Kattoor police said that the theft happened at the house of V. Indrani, head constable attached to the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore central. Ms. Indrani and family members left for her house in Sulur around 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. They returned to the quarters at 8.45 a.m. on Sunday and found the front door broken open and 4.5 sovereigns of jewellery missing. The police are investigating. 36 SDPI workers detained A total of 36 members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were detained and removed by the police as they attempted to stage a rail blockade here on Monday. They attempted to enter Coimbatore Railway Station to condemn the deaths of four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. Two detained under Goondas Act Two men who were arrested in connection with multiple burglary cases were detained under the provisions of the Goondas Act on Monday. Coimbatore District (Rural) Police said in a statement that Karthik, who was involved in several burglaries in Sirumugai police station limits, was detained under the Act. Similarly, provisions of the Act were invoked against Selvakumar alias Gopal who was involved in several burglaries in Mahalingapuram police station limits. District Collector G.S. Sameeran issued the detention orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-police-quarters/article36832980.ece
05 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Weekly grievance redress meeting resumes; over 400 petitions received||After more than a year, people turned up in good numbers at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Monday to submit petitions at the weekly grievance redress meeting after the State Government lifted the restriction it had imposed after COVID-19 spread. At the end of the day, the district administration said it had received over 400 petitions from various sections of the society. In a petition, the representatives of Saraswathi Thunai Nadhaswara Matrum Thavil Isaik- Kalaignargal Nalasangam, Coimbatore, said the lockdown and the restriction the Government had imposed on opening of temples for devotees and weddings had a negative impact on their livelihood. There were around 300 artistes in Coimbatore, almost all of who were without earning opportunity for the past year-and-a-half. They sought monthly financial assistance, assistance to buy thavil or nadhaswaram , monthly pension for artistes above 58 years of age, bus pass to travel free of charge in State-owned buses, free lands for artistes without land and opportunity to play in government functions. More than 20 representatives who turned up at the Collectorate played their instruments to draw the authorities’ attention. Farmers’ protest The Coimbatore Committee of Tamil Nadu Vivasayeegal Sangam staged a protest in front of the Collectorate condemning the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh. Led by president S. Palanisamy, around 40 persons participated in the protest. The Uttar Pradesh Government should immediately arrest those responsible for the death of farmers, the protestors said and sought a fair inquiry. ‘Reopen temples’ Sakthisena Indhu Makkal Yeyakkam has urged the Government to reopen temples on weekends. The outfit said , the Government had permitted reopening of commercial establishments, running buses and even restaurants. But it had ordered closure of temples on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. The Government should take steps immediately to reopen temples on all days. BMS demand The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh has urged the district administration to re-employ animators, whose services were terminated because of a change in contractor. In a petition, the trade union said local bodies in the district had four years ago engaged animators on contract under the Swachh Bharat Mission to create awareness among the public. During the COVID-19 pandemic period, the animators turned frontline workers. Now, with the local bodies changing the contractor for engaging animators, the previous contractors had stopped employing the persons working as animators. In this regard, it had submitted a petition to the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis chairperson M. Venkatesan when he visited Coimbatore, a few days ago. Despite the union’s representations to him, the district administration and others, the local bodies had failed to ask the contractors to re-engage the terminated animators, it said. Tiruppur At the Collectorate in Tiruppur, District Collector S. Vineeth accepted 1,113 petitions from the residents regarding issues such as house site pattas, water supply, road connectivity and pension to senior citizens, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekly-grievance-redress-meeting-resumes-over-400-petitions-received/article36832984.ece
05 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years jail in investment fraud||The special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act, Coimbatore, on Monday sentenced one of the proprietors of an investment firm to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for duping customers of Rs. 4.73 crore. A.S. Ravi, Special Judge, Special Court for TNPID Act cases, awarded the punishment to V. Chellamuthu (50), a resident of Netaji Nagar on Manickampalayam Road in Erode district. A release issued by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the police said that Chellamuthu, his wife Parasakthi, her father Gurusamy of Mettur, Narasimmalu of Sheik Dawood Street in Erode, Krishnakumar of Bengaluru and Gnanavel of Sakthi Nagar in Erode floated Annai Infotech Enterprises in 2009. Advertisements were given in media in which the firm assured people an interest of 24 % for investments. A total of 118 people invested Rs. 4,73,94,803 in the company. However, the firm failed to give returns as promised, said the EOW. The EOW, Erode, registered a case based on a complaint lodged by one of the investors, namely Tamilarasu of Namakkal district in 2010. The EOW filed chargesheet in the case and the TNPID completed the trial. Fine levied The court awarded 10 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 4.75 crore on Chellamuthu, while it acquitted the five others. Chellamuthu was lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-10-years-jail-in-investment-fraud/article36832991.ece
05 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BU faculty gets Royal Society of Biology nomination||T. Parimelazhagan, Botany professor at the Bharathiar University, has been nominated a Fellow of Royal Society of Biology, United Kingdom, said a release from the University. Mr. Parimelazhagan was offered the position in recognition of his contribution in the field of biological sciences. He had four patents to his name, the release said and added that he was also recently awarded the mid-career award by the UGC Faculty Research Promotion Scheme for his research on exploring ethnobotanical knowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-faculty-gets-royal-society-of-biology-nomination/article36832986.ece
05 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trains cancelled||Salem Railway Division on Monday announced the cancellation of weekly train services between Coimbatore and Silchar Junctions via Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai and Perambur due to engineering works in New Cooch Behar – Raninagar Jalpaiguri section of the Northeast Frontier Railway. Train no. 02516 Silchar – Coimbatore weekly special train, which was scheduled to leave Silchar on Tuesday and reach Coimbatore on Friday, has been cancelled. Similarly, train no. 02515 that was scheduled to leave Coimbatore on October 10 and reach Silchar on October 13 also remains cancelled, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-cancelled/article36832994.ece
05 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector flags off awareness vehicle||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday flagged off a vehicle to be used by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board to create awareness among public on rainwater harvesting. A release from the district administration said harvesting rainwater was the need of the hour. The harvested rainwater could be used for drinking, for cattle and irrigation as well. The vehicle would reach out to the people in municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats in the next 10 days, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-flags-off-awareness-vehicle/article36832985.ece
05 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for raping co-worker||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, has booked a salesman of a textile showroom in the city on charges of raping his co-worker late on Sunday. The police said that Anbuvel (26), a native of Thoothukudi, was booked based on a complaint lodged by a 22-year-old woman. According to the police , the incident took place around 10.30 p.m. when she and the accused were waiting on the shop’s premises due to rain. The woman told the police that she was rescued by her father who came to pick her. She has been admitted to a private hospital. The police registered a case against Anbuvel under Sections 324, 376, 511 and 506 (ii) of the IPC. A police officer said that Anbuvel escaped after the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-raping-co-worker/article36832979.ece
05 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Subramania Siva observed||District Collector S. Divyadarshini on Monday paid floral tributes to freedom fighter Subramania Siva on the occasion of his 138th birth anniversary at his memorial in Pennagaram. MLAs G. K.Mani, K.P .Anbazhagan, A. Govindasamy, S.P. Venkateshwaran, and former MLA P.N.P. Inbashekaran also paid their tributes to the freedom fighter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-subramania-siva-observed/article36833096.ece
05 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Seized vehicles to be auctioned||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing would be auctioning vehicles seized in prohibition cases in the district on Wednesday, a release said. According to a release, the seized vehicles would be placed for auction on October 6 on the premises of District Police office here. The auction would begin at 10 a.m and the public would be allowed to view the vehicles from 8 a.m. The full auction amount, including taxes must be paid on the day itself by interested buyers, a release said. For further details, the public can contact the office of SP, Prohibition Enforcement Wing in phone numbers 04342-230759, 262581.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-vehicles-to-be-auctioned/article36833098.ece
05 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Power supply would be disrupted in Bazaar feeder area on Tuesday for transformer maintenance between 10.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. at Arumugha Achari street, Chinnasami Naidu Street, Muhamed Ali Club Road, Chengodipuram, PR.Srinivasan Street and nearby areas, a release from Tangedco said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36833099.ece
05 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Road in Erode renamed after ‘Tiruppur’ Kumaran||As a tribute to freedom fighter ‘Tiruppur’ Kumaran on the occasion of his 118th birth anniversary, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Monday renamed Sampath Nagar Main Road in the city as ‘Thiyagi Kumaran Road.’ The Chief Minister unveiled the name board during a virtual event from Chennai. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, Collector H. Krishnanunni, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Rajya Sabha MP Anthiyur P. Selvaraj, Erode East MLA E. Thirumahan Everaa and government officials were present at the District collectorate during the event. On October 3, the government issued a G.O. in this regard. The order followed a request made by the Collector after a resolution was adopted at the Erode Corporation Council meeting. Thanking the Chief Minister, Mr. Muthusamy said that during his inspection in Erode three months ago, Mr. Stalin asked whether there is any demand for naming a road after the freedom fighter. “A month ago, Mr. Stalin said that the road at Sampath Nagar should be renamed after him on his birth anniversary on October 4”, the Minister recalled. The road that is located opposite to the District Collectorate connects Perundurai Road and Nasiyanur Road. At Chennimalai, Mr. Muthusamy and Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan paid floral tributes to the freedom fighter at his birth place in Chennimalai Town Panchayat. Ancestors of the freedom fighter were also felicitated on the occasion. Tiruppur Kumaran was born on October 4, 1904 in Chennimalai to Nachimuthu Mudaliyar and Karupayee Ammal, and led a protest against the British in Tiruppur on January 11, 1932. He was carrying the Indian National Flag that was banned by the British then. He was beaten up by the police on the banks of the River Noyyal during the protest and was asked to put the flag down. However, he held on to the flag and died after which he was called as Kodi Kaatha Kumaran .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-in-erode-renamed-after-tiruppur-kumaran/article36833093.ece
05 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Halt MGNREGS works in LBP canal ayacut areas’||Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam has urged the Central and State governments to halt works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal ayacut areas until the cultivation is completed. In a release its president, C. Nallasamy said that due to poor implementation of the scheme, the hard work of the beneficiaries were curtailed. They were paid meagre amount as wages. The release claimed that due to vote bank politics, political parties also refuse to question the irregularities in the implementation of the scheme. The request of farmers’ association asking the workers to return to farming also did not yield any results, the release said. The scheme had tremendous impact on agriculture as adequate workforce was not available for farming. “In the current year, water was released into the canal after a delay and commencing cultivation is a big challenge. If workers are not available, farming cannot be done, ” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/halt-mgnregs-works-in-lbp-canal-ayacut-areas/article36833090.ece
05 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 88 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 88 new cases taking the total tally to 1,02,267. While 105 persons were discharged, 1,109 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 51 positive cases. According to Health Department officials, 38 cases were indigenous and 13 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 49 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Dharmapuri, 32 indigenous cases were reported, 38 in Krishnagiri. Deaths As per bulletin two deaths were reported, one each in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-88-covid-19-cases/article36833088.ece
05 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Grievance day meeting resumes at Erode District Collectorate||Petitions seeking free house site pattas, old-age pension and improvement in sanitation were submitted at the grievance redress meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday. The meeting that was cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic for seven months resumed here with people submitting petitions. People from New Bombay Sizing Mill Road submitted a petition urging the district administration to relocate a Tasmac shop that was proposed to be opened in their area. Over 150 women work in the mills in two shifts and they use the road where work is on to open the liquor shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-day-meeting-resumes-at-erode-district-collectorate/article36833091.ece
05 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate arrangements in place for polls in Kallakuruchi district||Elaborate arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of the first phase of rural local body polls in the district on October 6. A total of 4,73,464 voters (2,39,603 men, 2,33,776 women and 85 others) are expected to exercise their franchise in the polls. The arrangements being made for the polls include deployment of 1,800 police personnel for law and order duty and posting of over 6,511 government employees, including 207 zonal officers, for election duty at 939 polling booths across the district. 5,717 in the fray According to Collector P. N. Sridhar, elections are being held for 1,924 posts and as many as 5,717 are in the fray in the district. Mr. Sridhar said the four panchayat unions in the district had been divided into 69 zones and arrangements were being made to despatch polling materials to the booths. Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque said the police department had made elaborate security arrangements to ensure hassle-free, free and fair polling in the district. Over 1,800 police personnel had been deployed for security on polling day. The department had also deployed six mobile parties and 27 police pickets across the district for polling. The patrolling units would cover all the polling stations. As many as 81 polling booths had been identified as vulnerable. Additional police personnel would be deployed at sensitive, vulnerable and critical polling booths. Webcasting had been arranged at 84 polling booths while arrangements had been made to videograph the polling procedures at 84 booths. As many as 690 polling booths will be under CCTV surveillance, Mr. Sridhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elaborate-arrangements-in-place-for-polls-in-kallakuruchi-district/article36833281.ece
05 October 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||LTTE involved in arms, drugs smuggling: NIA||The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was involved in the smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs seized from a Sri Lankan fishing vessel off Lakshadweep last year, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said. Suresh Raj and Soundarajan from Tamil Nadu, who were arrested in connection with the seizure of drugs, were members of the LTTE, the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ltte-involved-in-arms-drugs-smuggling-nia/article36832972.ece
05 October 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Kovilpatti achieves 99.24% vaccination||The Kovilpatti municipality has achieved 99.24% vaccination against COVID-19, thanks to the recently organised mega vaccination camps on Sundays. Of the 63,098 persons eligible for inoculation, the 477 people left out were pregnant women and those with health issues. According to Municipal Commissioner P. Krishnamurthy, 80,237 people are living in 34,728 houses in the municipality and 63,098 of them are eligible to get vaccinated as they are above the age of 18. Following three mega vaccination camps organised on Sundays, the Kovilpatti municipality attained the 99.24% vaccination status on last Sunday (October 3) with all the 62,621 persons getting vaccinated. “As per the Collector’s instruction, armed with voters’ list, we organised a survey in all 36 wards to identify the eligible persons. Though we planned to complete the survey within 15 days, it took 45 days. We collected the Aadhaar card and mobile phone numbers from the residents for identifying the left-out persons from the vaccination drive. When we used the Aadhaar card number, we could easily identify the uncovered persons and called them over phone to get themselves vaccinated at the mega vaccination camp,” said Mr. Krishnamurthy. The invitation extended to this ‘adamant group’ was not easy as most of them tried to give a slip. After a lot of persuasion, they were brought to the vaccination centres. “When a few of them were found to be sitting at home, we sent a team and administered the vaccine there. Even then, they tried to avoid it, citing some health issues, but our doctors in the ‘visiting team’ neutralised their arguments medically,” said Mr. Krishamurthy. When the first mega vaccination camp was organised on September 12, three beneficiaries were selected through lots and given gold coins while next five winners received free headphones. Ten winners of the last mega camp held on last Sunday received silk saris. “Around 44% of the residents of Kovilpatti municipality have received the second dose also. We’re trying to achieve cent per cent in administering second dose also within a month,” said Mr. Krishnamurthy.  We collectedAadhaar card and mobile phone numbers from the residents for identifying left-out persons from the vaccination drive P. Krishnamurthy Municipal Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovilpatti-achieves-9924-vaccination/article36833345.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petitioners back at Collectorate after one-and-a-half year gap||Hundreds of petitioners lined up at the Collectorate on Monday to hand over petitions to the Collector in person after the State Government allowed for physical presence of petitioners for Monday grievances redressal day. Men and women of all ages thronged the new Collectorate premises right from 9 a.m. Even as the petitions were being registered by several employees on the ground floor, the serpentine queue was seen winding outside the building right up to the vehicle parking area. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, accompanied by District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari, received the petitions and lent a patient hearing to their grievances. As many as 770 petitions were received till 3 p.m. All these months, the petitioners were asked to drop the petitions in the boxes kept in the Collectorate due to COVID-19 precautionary measure. “Probably, the people wanted to hand over the petition in person and come in large numbers,” the Collector said. The petitions were directed to the officials concerned and instructed to take action at the earliest. In between, the Collector came out from the conference hall and visited the differently-abled persons who were waiting outside the hall and collected their petitions. He also handed over various benefits, including a wheelchair on the occasion. Personal Assistant (General) to the Collector, Rajkumar, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petitioners-back-at-collectorate-after-one-and-a-half-year-gap/article36833397.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to make railway stations easily accessible for differently abled||A differently abled advocate moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a direction to the Centre, the State and Southern Railway to take necessary steps to make the railways stations in southern districts easily accessible for the differently abled and senior citizens. Advocate K. R. Raja of Madurai in his public interest litigation petition said that steps must be taken by the authorities to upgrade/improve the infrastructure at railway stations so that they are made easily accessible for senior citizens and differently abled in accordance with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. He said that he was a frequent traveller and travelled by train for long distance journeys. But, one such journey turned out to be an unpleasant experience. He had travelled to Chennai to attend a conference. After arriving at Egmore railway station, he said that he spent close to an hour trying to get help to exit the railway station. He could not access the lift during the rush hour and had to wait for a long time to finally get access to a wheelchair at the railway station. As a result, he was late for the conference. Also, at the Madurai railway station he faced similar issues. Both the railway stations were not easily accessible for the differently abled, he said. When airports in the country offered adequate facilities to the differently abled and senior citizens, railway stations also should be easily accessible. Therefore steps must be taken by the authorities to improve the infrastructure to make the railway stations, train compartments, ticket booking centres and other public utilities accessible to the differently abled, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response from the Centre, the State and Southern Railway and adjourned the hearing in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-hc-to-make-railway-stations-easily-accessible-for-differently-abled/article36833064.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Colleges open for freshers with orientation programmes||First year students of the Government Arts and Science colleges in the city on Monday attended orientation programmes conducted at their colleges. The colleges were instructed by the Directorate of Collegiate Education to commence classes for freshers. Second year and third year college students and the second year postgraduate students have already been attending classes since September 1. The colleges ensured that COVID-19 protocol that mandated wearing face masks and maintaining physical distance were followed. Orientation programme for freshers would be held in batches and it would continue for the entire first week. The college authorities said that the first year students would be given counselling and a vaccination camp would also be held for eligible students to ensure that everyone was vaccinated. “People, particularly students, are facing psychological issues due to COVID-19. They need motivation and in order to help them counselling programmes will be held”, said Principal in charge of Madurai Kamaraj University College B. George. “The students have stepped into the college for the first time. So the first week there will be orientation and then regular classes would commence. We are prepared to handle a hybrid mode of conducting classes – both online and physical,” he said. Teachers have been instructed to be friendly with the students and help them familiarise with the college atmosphere. The college authorities said that some parents still feared sending their children for in-person classes. “Our counselling cell with qualified experts will help the students and teachers have been asked to provide the necessary information to the students”, said Principal of Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women S. Vanathi. She said that vaccination camp was held for students and COVID-19 protocol was strictly adhered to during the orientation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-open-for-freshers-with-orientation-programmes/article36833392.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Changes in traffic flow at Kalavasal junction||Madurai City police have introduced certain changes in traffic flow at Kalavasal junction to put the flyover at Kalavasal to optimum usage from Monday. A statement said that people who want to cross the junction from Arapalayam to go to Palanganatham side and vice-versa have to compulsorily take the flyover. The service roads on both sides of the bridge have been closed at the junction from one end to another. And traffic signal has been modified to implement the new traffic changes. However, the motorists can continue to take right and left turns from all sides. Similarly, vehicles from Mudakkusalai can go to Arasaradi and vice-versa. Information boards have been kept on both ends of the bridge asking people to go over the flyover for going to Palanganatham from Arapalayam and vice-versa. “If some vehicle inadvertently takes the service road for crossing the signal from one end of the By-pass road to another end, they will have to either take right or left towards Theni road and take a u-turn at Mudakkusalai Road end or take u-turn at Arasaradi junction,” a senior traffic police officer said. To enable the changes, the bus stops on By-pass Roads closer to the junction have been shifted to Chokkalinga Nagar and Guru Theatre bus-stop. All the buses will have to take only the flyover to cross the junction from one end of the By-pass Road to another.  The service roads on both sides of the bridge have been closed at the junction and traffic signal has been modified||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-traffic-flow-at-kalavasal-junction/article36833399.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman lodges sexual harassment complaint against official||A woman cook at a Government school hostel in Theni district has lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against an official in the rank of Joint Director here on Monday. The widow said that she was purposefully asked to come to the JD’s office in Madurai and was made to wait from afternoon till late in the evening and was sexually assaulted. “When I objected to it, the man spat on my face and shouted at me to yield to his desires,” the complainant said in a petition handed over to Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, here on Monday. The Collector has promised to look into the issue at the earliest, said her relative, Kalyani, an elderly man who had accompanied the woman to the Collectorate. The incident is said to have occurred on September 23 following which the woman, consumed poison at the hostel premises in Theni district after the hostel warden threatened her for not falling in line with the Joint Director’s diktat. The woman was rushed to the Government Hospital in Periyakulam and later taken to Government Medical College Hospital in Theni. The Thenkarai police who got a complaint from the cook’s mother hid the facts and registered a case in favour of the officer and the warden, the complainant said. A police official tried to pacify the woman after visiting her at the hospital, the petition alleged. The woman has sent the petition to the State Human Rights Commission also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-lodges-sexual-harassment-complaint-against-higher-official/article36833079.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat to take place on October 8||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai Division, on October 8 at 11 a.m. Postal customers could send their complaints to the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai Division, before 6 p.m. on October 6. The complaint should contain full details of date and time of posting, addresses of the sender and addressee with phone number, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for money order, value of payable post, registered, insured and speed post articles. Complaints about savings schemes and postal life insurance should have the account number, postal life insurance policy number and full address of the depositor/insurant, name of the post office, details of recovery and reference from the department, if any. The complaints should be sent through ordinary/registered post, with ‘DAK ADALAT’ super scribed on the cover, said a press release from the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-october-8/article36833066.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to grant anticipatory bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday refused to grant anticipatory bail to a man from Tiruchi who allegedly posted certain remarks against School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on social media platforms. Justice B. Pugalendhi dismissed the anticipatory bail petition filed by S. Vijayakumar of Tiruchi after taking note of the fact that many cases were registered against the petitioner and he had passed similar remarks against others. The petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him. He said that someone had posted the comment on social media platforms by using fake accounts created in his name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-grant-anticipatory-bail/article36833039.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail granted||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday granted bail to Madarsha, second accused in the illegal child adoption case as the police failed to complete the investigation within the prescribed period. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail to the accused. The main accused is the Director of the Idhayam Trust G.R. Sivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-granted/article36833393.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maintain waterbodies||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice and directed the State to file a counter affidavit on a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to remove encroachments from Rajakemberam and Kottachikarai tanks in Othakadai. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by M. Dinakaran of Madurai. He said that the authorities should remove the encroachments and maintain the waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintain-waterbodies/article36833394.ece
05 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.75 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 2,414 cusecs and discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 53.71 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,881 cusecs and discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,507 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36833068.ece
05 October 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Nine fishermen return home after 20-month incarceration in Iran||When the below poverty line family from Pallam Annai Nagar near Kanniyakumari saw its sole breadwinner S. Sahaya Vijay, 23, flying to Kuwait in October 2019 to work in a fishing trawler, the family, which had lost its head only a year ago to a mid-sea mishap, hoped that the youth would bail the family out of poverty. But he has returned home empty-handed after 20 months of incarceration in an Iranian prison along with eight of his colleagues, also from Kanniyakumari district. After Mr. Sahaya Vijay lost his father Sahayam in a mid-sea tragedy in December 2018 when his catamaran capsized, the youth, a SSLC dropout, decided go abroad to work in a fishing trawler as a good number of fishermen from Kanniyakumari district are working in mechanised boats in the Middle East and earn a decent income. “As he sailed along with others on January 15, the boat accidentally entered Iranian waters that led to the detention of the trawler with the nine-member crew and their subsequent lodging in an Iranian prison on charges of espionage,” says S. Sahana, his elder sister. His family received information about his detention only after 10 days of the incident. Ms. Sahana was able to contact him 90 days later when Mr. Vijay managed to get a phone made available illegally inside the prison. “When Mr. Vijay and others went to collect the cages they had lowered, Iranian coast guard swooped on them. Since the cages were marked with sensors to send signals to the trawler, the Iranian officials found it easy to accuse them of spying in the guise of fishermen,” Ms. Sahana said. As the families of all nine fishermen launched a unified effort by hiring an Iranian advocate through the Indian Embassy there, it eventually ended up in the nine prisoners submitting clemency petition which had apparently ensured their release after 20 months of imprisonment. “My brother has returned home empty-handed. Even the dress he was wearing when he boarded the flight for Chennai was sponsored by someone else in Iran. The government, at least now, should extend a helping hand to bail us out from this misfortune,” Ms. Sahana says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-fishermen-return-home-after-20-month-incarceration-in-iran/article36832943.ece
05 October 2021||Palani,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl strangled to death in Palani||A 16-year-old girl was strangulated to death in Ganapathi Nagar here on Sunday night. The police have arrested her cousin Balamurugan in this connection. According to police, the deceased was seen speaking to someone over phone which irritated Balamurugan. After a quarrel, he thrashed the girl at around 8 p.m. Later, he strangled her following which she collapsed. The girl, daughter of a differently abled widow, was rushed to the Government Hospital here where she died. When the doctors found that she had died due to strangling, the police were alerted. “We have arrested the accused. We are enquiring him to ascertain the exact motive,” Palani Town Inspector of Police R. Balamurugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-strangled-to-death/article36833069.ece
05 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one COVID-19 death, 42 fresh infections||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 42 new cases even as the recovery rate touched 98% on Monday. Yanam reported the fatality, taking the cumulative toll to 1,842. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,443), Karaikal (248), Yanam (107) and Mahe (44). Puducherry logged 34 new cases, which were detected from 3,832 tests, followed by Karaikal (4) and Mahe (4). No cases were reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.1%, the case fatality rate 1.46% and the recovery rate 98.03%. With 96 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 654. Of them, 106 patients were in hospitals and 548 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,26,587 cases against 1,24,091 recovered patients. Of an estimated 18.11 lakh tests done so far, over 15.37 lakh samples have returned negative. Meanwhile, 2,327 people took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 10,22,249 doses of vaccines, including 3,24,391 second doses. 30 people test positive Cuddalore district on Monday witnessed 30 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection, taking the overall tally to 63,530. The district saw 62,311 recoveries, and there were 360 active cases. In Villupuram district, 13 people tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,519. Kallakurichi district reported 16 positive cases, taking the district’s tally to 31,021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-covid-19-death-42-fresh-infections/article36833287.ece
05 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress workers stage road roko||Congress workers on Monday staged road blockades in different parts of the town to protest against the detention of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while she was on her way to meet the kin of farmers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Led by former CM V. Narayanasamy, the workers staged a protest near Raja Theatre junction against the detention of Ms. Vadra. They shouted slogans against the BJP-led Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government. Former government whip R. K. R. Anantharaman was also present. Mahila Congress workers led by actress Nagma staged a road roko at Rajiv Gandhi Square. Party workers staged protests in other parts of the town and suburban areas. PCC appointments The Pradesh Congress Committee has appointed Mr. Narayanasamy as head of the committee to oversee local bodies poll in Pondicherry Municipality. The committee would include M. Vaithiyanathan, MLA, former Minister M. Kandasamy and PCC vice-president P. K Devadoss. Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam would handle the election work in Ozhukarai Municipality. He would be assisted by former Minister M.O.H. F Shajahan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-workers-stage-road-roko/article36833285.ece
05 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||IGMCRI to focus entirely on non-COVID services||Amid a steady decline in new coronavirus cases and a marked improvement in vaccination coverage, the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI) on Monday formally ended what has been a lynchpin role as a designated COVID-19 hospital since the pandemic outbreak early last year. The institution, which discharged its last remaining coronavirus patient, will henceforth entirely focus on non-Covid services. The IGMCRI will now function in a full-fledged manner for non-Covid patients, whose access to regular care had been cut back through well over a year in order to accommodate fluctuating loads of coronavirus cases, and also revive from near total disruption the access of MBBS students to medical education facilities. The IGMCRI, along with Jipmer, had been the fulcrum of the administration’s round-the-clock toil to turn around the tide in pandemic management and significantly bring down both the mortality and morbidity related to COVID-19. However, at the same time, even after the IGMCRI gradually resumed badly-affected non-Covid services after the pandemic situation improved, it was found that regular patients were hesitant to make a hospital visit for fear of contracting an infection, a health official said. Though the Health administration had issued an order on August 17 on the suspension of Covid admissions at IGMCRI in accordance with the instructions of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, a few patients could not be relocated to the Government Hospital for Chest Diseases (GHCD) or Jipmer because of their critical condition. Since August 17, the IGMCRI had initiated a process of moving out inpatients to either of these hospitals. “We still had about 25 COVID-19 patients who were too sick to be shifted out. With the last of the remaining patients discharged, the IGMCRI will henceforth deliver non-Covid services,” G. Sriramulu, Health Director, said. At present, COVID cases requiring hospitalisation are being admitted to the Government Hospital for Chest Diseases (GHCD), Gorimedu, and Jipmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/igmcri-to-focus-entirely-on-non-covid-services/article36833290.ece
05 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University establishes Mahatma Gandhi Park on campus||Pondicherry University has opened a Mahatma Gandhi Park on its campus. Gurmeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University, formally inaugurated the park during the recent 152nd birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi. He also planted a sapling to commemorate the occasion and distributed cleaning materials to the Swachh Bharat workers. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor led the tributes to the Father of the Nation by offering flowers to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The world over, the day is also celebrated as International Day of Non-violence, which is only resolution for stronger India, Mr. Singh noted. Observing that the Mahatma followed what he preached, Mr. Singh said that was the reason his life, which is an open book, is in itself a message, which all of us should feel proud and follow. S. Balakrishnan, Director (SEIRR), Rajeev Jain OSD (CCR), Amaresh Samantaraya, Registrar, D. Lazar, Finance Officer, C.K. Ramaiah, Controller of Examinations, Pramod Singh, Librarian, Deans of various Schools, Heads of Departments, faculty, and students also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-university-establishes-mahatma-gandhi-park-on-campus/article36833289.ece
05 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No holy dip’||The district administration has prohibited people from gathering at Kodiyakarai in Manamelkudi taluk on October 5 and 6 on Mahalaya Amasvaya . The public will not be allowed at Saanthaar Amman sannithi and other important places of worship on the two days, Collector Kavitha Ramu said in a pres release on Monday. The move has been taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 due to possibility of people congregating in large numbers at Kodiyakarai. The Nagapattinam administration has also announced a similar ban. The Mayiladuthurai administration too has imposed a similar ban at beaches, including Poompuhar and Tranquebar, on October 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-holy-dip-in-sea/article36833045.ece
05 October 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Lay bypass road around Rajapalayam, says CPI(M)||A bypass road must be laid around Rajapalayam to decongest vehicular traffic and the ongoing underground drainage and drinking water projects in the town must be expedited, said Communist party of India - Marxist here on Monday. These resolutions were passed at the 23rd conference of the party’s town unit. A rally was taken out from Pannaiyar Arch to the meeting venue. A nine-member office-bearers were elected on the occasion, in which the incumbent town secretary B. Mariappan was re-elected. Through another resolution, the party demanded setting up of a Government Arts and Science College in Rajapalayam and to bring down the price of yarn so that powerlooms workers got work throughout the year. The party’s district secretary, K. Arjunan, and a functionary, P. N. Deva, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lay-bypass-road-around-rajapalayam-says-cpim/article36833073.ece
05 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Petitioners back at Collectorate after one-and-a-half year gap||Petitioners were back in Ramanathapuram and Dindigul Collectorates after more than one-and-a-half years, as till March 2020 physical presence of petitioners was the norm at weekly grievance redress meetings on Mondays. In Ramanathapuram, Collector (in charge) A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan received 248 petitions from the people regarding various issues in the district. A family from Madanthai near Paramakudi complained of medical negligence that claimed the life of a mother of two children, who underwent family planning surgery at Paramakudi Government Hospital. Muniyandi, father of the the deceased Kanimozhi, said that his daughter gave birth to her second child in the hospital on September 17. “She was healthy after the delivery. However, the doctors at the hospital forced my daughter to undergo family planning operation,” Mr. Muniyandi charged. After the surgery, health condition worsened and she was rushed to Government Medical College Hospital in Sivaganga, where she died on September 19. “The body was handed over to us without post-mortem,” he said. The family members who had brought to the meeting the two children, including the newborn, demanded compensation from the government to bring up the two children. Dindigul In Dindigul, Collector S. Visakan received 232 petitions from the people. The petitioners were allowed after their body temperature was checked. They were told to follow social distancing. The Collector also handed over assistance to people, including order for old-age pension and identity card for health insurance scheme. He also handed over free housesite patta to a freedom fighter, Raj, of Maviliyarpatti in Authoor taluk. Officials from various departments were present. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy received 440 petitions. He ordered the officials of the departments concerned to act immediately on petitions and arrive at solutions for the preoblems of people. He handed over cheques for compensation to the family members of two persons, Arjunan and Urangapuli, who died while working in Saudi Arabia. The family members had sought the administration to get compensation from the employers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petitioners-back-at-collectorate-after-one-and-a-half-year-gap/article36833076.ece
05 October 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of ban, devotees throng Rameswaram temple||Devotees thronged the Ramanathaswamy Temple here on Monday. With the Ramanathapuram district administration banning entry of devotees into the temple on Tuesday and Wednesday, the arrival of pilgrims to the famous temple was unusually high. “The crowd in the temple is on the rise on Mondays, as the State government has denied permission for devotees to enter big temples on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays as a COVID precautionary measure,” said a temple official. Anticipating lakhs of devotees thronging the temple to offer prayers and the seashore to perform rituals for their forebears in connection with Mahalaya Amavasai on Wednesday, the Collector declared a ban on entry into the temple on Tuesday and Wednesday also.“ The temple has been clocking around 25,000 visitors from far and near in the last few Mondays. Today, it would have crossed 30,000,” the temple official said. A devotee from Erode, S. Manoharan, 34, said that he came with his two friends on Monday as offering prayers on the Amavasai day was not possible. “Since, I came to the temple as early as 7.30 a.m., I managed to complete the darshan with 30 minutes. But a lot of people were still arriving when we were on their way out,” the devotee added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-ban-devotees-throng-rameswaram-temple/article36833071.ece
05 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wheelchair provided to differently-abled youth||It was a moment of relief for Varadharajan, a differently-abled youth and his father Ramalingam who came to the Collectorate to petition for a wheelchair and pension under the differently-abled persons scheme. Mr. Varadharajan, a 22-year-old youth from Danishpet, over 30 km away from the city has been visiting the Collectorate for the past few years requesting for pension as he was suffering from 100% disability. Mr. Varadharajan was affected with physical development impairment, officials said. However, despite petitioning for several years, the father-son duo didn’t receive any relief. However, they did not lose hope and visited the Collectorate again on Monday. District Collector S. Karmegham heard the grievances of differently-abled persons at the specially arranged hall near the District Differently-Abled Welfare Office on the Collectorate premises. After hearing the grievance of Mr. Varadharajan, the Collector ordered the authorities to provide the youth with a wheelchair immediately. Mr. Karmegham himself lifted the youth and made him sit on the chair, rolled the chair to the portico and helped him to board the ambulance for differently-abled persons. The Collector also asked the authorities to take measures for providing the youth with pension at the earliest. Mr. Ramalingam expressed his gratitude to the Collector for taking swift action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wheelchair-provided-to-differently-abled-youth/article36833095.ece
05 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizen wants property returned from his children||A 79-year-old man from Ponnamapet has urged the District Collector to take action against his children for abandoning him and taking away the family property. In a petition to the Collector on Monday, A. M. Devaraj said that his three sons took away his properties based on unregistered will written in 2001. Mr .Devaraj alleged that his sons with the help of some revenue officials forged the documents and partitioned the property and did not provide for the medical, daily expenses. He charged that he has been undergoing treatment for cancer for the past few years and its expenses are not borne by his three sons. He requested the district administration to take necessary legal action against his sons and government officials. He also sought necessary action under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act for getting back his property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-citizen-wants-property-returned-from-his-children/article36833097.ece
05 October 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Congress stages protest against arrest of Priyanka||Congress workers, led by Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore, staged a protest here on Monday against the arrest of their party leader Priyanka Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Tagore condemned the Yogi Adityanath government for arresting the leader who was proceeding to the village to console family members of four farmers who were killed after hit by a car. Charging that son of Union Minister, Ajay Mishra, was behind the death of the protesting farmers, Mr. Tagore said that while the accused was left scot-free, Ms. Priyanka who was going to console the family members was arrested. Mr. Tagore appealed to the President to dismiss the Bharatiya Janata Party government in Uttar Pradesh. “The Centre is not ready to hold talks with the protesting farmers,” he charged. He also demanded the immediate release of Ms. Priyanka. Party’s Sivakasi MLA G. Ashokan and district secretary Sriraja Chokkar participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-stages-protest-against-arrest-of-priyanka/article36833078.ece
05 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Patronage for e-DPC system slowly picks up in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur districts||Patronage for the new e-DPC system of paddy procurement appears to be picking up with a few hundred farmers in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts registering their names online for measurement of their produce at the designated direct purchase centres. Though the new method of procurement evoked a strong negative reaction from a majority of farmers’ associations in the delta, 350 farmers in Thanjavur and 256 in Tiruvarur have opted for the e-DPC method so far. At the same time, official sources say, the old method is also being continued in order to provide time for farmers to become familiar with the new system, as suggested by a group of progressive farmers in delta districts. Stating that a total of 243 DPCs have been set up in Thanjavur district as on October 4, official sources say around 5,000 tonnes of paddy have been procured since the commencement of the current procurement season from October 1. In Tiruvarur, 244 centres have been opened and a little over 100 tonnes of paddy have been procured though more than 200 farmers have registered their names through e-DPC system. Meanwhile, Papanasam MLA M.H. Jawahirullah, who has sought the continuance of the old system of procurement, in a letter addressed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin points out a pertinent issue that may crop up for a section of farmers if they follow the new method. In his letter, Mr. Jawahirullah has said that since the registration process requires submission of survey number the siblings cultivating paddy in the apportioned areas of the family property (agriculture field) having a single survey number will be in a quandary if every one of them prefers to measure their produce at the DPC on a day convenient to them. Further, most of the Delta farmers take up paddy cultivation on fields taken on lease/rent, Mr. Jawahirullah adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patronage-for-e-dpc-system-slowly-picks-up-in-thanjavur-tiruvarur-districts/article36833052.ece
05 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers for early reopening of Sterlite Copper||A group of people from a few villages around Thoothukudi, including Saminaththam and Meelavitaan submitted a petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj on Monday seeking reopening of Sterlite Copper unit “which was ensuring better living standards for us.” The petitioners said that a few hundred families living in various villages around Sterlite Copper were getting a decent income through direct and indirect employment provided by the copper smelter. However, the sudden closure of the plant forced many of these families to move out of their native places in search of employment even in far off places, including Mumbai, where they were getting trivial income. Apart from providing employment, Sterlite Copper’s welfare schemes were of great help to the poor families of the villages around the plant. Hence, the Collector should recommend to the government to reopen the copper smelter soon, they appealed. In a petition submitted by secretary of Thoothukudi District Consumers and Public Welfare Association Sundararaj, the Government Order pertaining to acquisition of land in Allikulam, Ramasamypuram, Keezha Thattaparai, Mela Thattaparai, Umarikkottai, Paeroorani and Therkku Silukkanpatti for industrial purposes should be cancelled as this decision was unilaterally taken by the previous State government without conducting a public hearing. Congress functionary Mahendran submitted a petition seeking formation of a new taluk in the district with Pudukottai as headquarters and the constituent village panchayats as Kulaiyankarisal, Servaikaranmadam, Kattalankulam, Mudivaithaanenthal, Varthagareddipatti, Thimmarajapuram, Paeroorani, Varadharajapuram, Umarikottai, Allikulam, Koottudankaadu, Thattapparai, Silukkanpatti and Maravanmadam. A group of villagers from Manakkarai Melur submitted a petition seeking construction of a damaged bridge. They said the 300-odd families, including farmers, were unable to use the damaged bridge at Marudhur Keezhakkaal to reach the fields and the cremation ground. Since the people had to take another circuitous route, it results in waste of time and fuel and hence the bridge should be reconstructed. Coordinator of Thoothukudi District Farmers’ Cooperative Societies Nangamuthu submitted a petition seeking permission to resume a weekly market at Deivaseyalpuram to sell their farm produce. He said that the farmers from Chekkaarakkudi, Thimmarajapuram, Varththagareddipatti, Vagaikulam, Mudivaithaanenthal, Aniyabharananallur, Ellainaickenpatti and Vallannadu villages would bring their farm produce and sell them at the weekly market. Since the police had denied permission for this market in the wake of COVID-19, the farmers were facing losses. Hence, the weekly market should be revived, Mr. Nangamuthu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-for-reopening-of-sterlite-plant/article36833087.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Breast cancer awareness month observed at MGMGH||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Monday observed the beginning of breast cancer awareness month. Pink balloons were released following which doctors from the hospital interacted with the general public and told them about preventive measures against breast cancer. Nursing students stood in the shape of a pink ribbon, the symbol of breast cancer awareness, as they took an oath and released the balloons. “The release of the balloons is a symbolic representation of freeing oneself from the stigma of breast cancer,” they said. Hospital Dean K. Vanitha, who presided over the event, said that early intervention was key to treatment of all cancers. “It is easier to treat if detected early. The treatment too will be less complicated and the patient can become 100% cancer-free,” she said. S. Suresh Kumar, Associate Professor, Department of Medical Oncology, said breast cancer cases arrving at the hospital continued to be people who were in the late stages. “We are also noticing that the age of the onset of cancer is lower nowadays. The number of patients in their 30s is increasing. People who have a history of cancer in their family must get tested regularly," he said. A variant called the triple-negative had become common among Indian women, he said, adding that it was highly aggressive and multiplied fast. A booklet on the prevention of breast cancer was printed and distributed to the public at the GH. A continuous medical education was conducted for nursing students and doctors where ‘Breast Cancer Screening - The Indian Perspective’ was discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/breast-cancer-awareness-month-observed-at-mgmgh/article36833051.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||GH prepares to tackle dengue||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has made arrangements to tackle dengue amid the onset of seasonal rain with separate wards for pediatric and adult cases. A total of 30 beds for adults and 30 for children has been readied at the hospital. Another ward on the first floor has also been prepared. While the number of cases reported this year has been low compared to the previous years, doctors continue to create awareness of the importance of early detection. In September, 20 cases were reported, while it was 23 in July and 29 in August, according to district-wide data provided by the Directorate of Public Health (DPH). “While a few clusters are being identified in rural parts of the district, there is no reason for panic,” Deputy Director of Health Services A. Subramani said. Dengue cases usually report a spike during the monsoon, and since there has been no continuous wet spell so far, the number of cases reported is low, K. Vanitha, Dean, said. Awareness programmes are being condcuted by urban and rural local bodies on keeping a check on stagnated water. “People still believe that mosquitoes breed only in water. It can be water in your buckets and flower pots too. Water should not be allowed to stagnate,” a senior doctor said. A team of workers have been deputed by the DPH to monitor dengue in the district. “If a patient suffers from fever, people nowadays think it may be COVID-19. It is advisable that the patient also gets tested for dengue if the symptoms persist and the COVID-19 test results are negative,” the doctor added. According to Dr. Vanitha, MGMGH has only five patients admitted to the ward and only two are dengue positive. The hospital has also made arrangements for sufficient stock of platelets for transfusion in emergency cases. "While there was a shortage of blood at the blood bank during the peak of COVID-19, various groups are conducting camps and are helping out. We have sufficient stock,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-prepares-to-tackle-dengue/article36833060.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, raises cassava seed villages in Pudukottai district||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Sreekariyam, Thiruvananthapuram, has promoted cassava seed villages in Gandharvakottai taluk in Pudukottai district. The seed villages have been established through distribution of planting materials of cassava varieties such as Sree Reksha and Sree Athulya developed by CTCRI. Similar seed villages have been raised at Kolli Hills in Namakkal district and Gudamalai in Salem to overcome shortage of planting material. In Gandharavakottai taluk, 10 farmers have been extended support to raise the crop on an acre each at Veeradipatti, Manjampatti and Mudhukulam, according to R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, Seed technology, Division of Crop Production, CRCRI. “The planting materials are distributed free of cost and fertilizers are supplied to the beneficiairies. The farmers planted the crop in February and the crop will be ready for harvest in a couple of months.The crop in the seed villages are in good condition and are found to be resistant to mealybug. The yield is expected to be good,” he told The Hindu . The seed villages have been established in select villages by identifying promising farmers in major cassava growing areas under the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) programme. The farmers are provided good quality disease-free varieties of cassava and financial assistance. The objective of the programme is to turn farmers into seed entrepreneurs to overcome shortage of quality planting materials of improved varieties of cassava. Cassava is globally recognised as a potential climate resilient crop. A team of scientists from ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, comprising Mr. Muthuraj, K. M. Senthilkumar, Scientist, Biotechnology, Division of Crop Improvement, and P. Prakash, Scientist, Agricultural Economics, Extension and Social Sciences, visited the three places in the State recently to provide farm advisory service and monitor seed village demonstration plots. A training programme for farmers on improved technologies cultivation was organised in association with the Horticulture Department at Gudamalai recently, Mr. Muthuraj said.  The farmers are provided good quality disease-free varieties of cassava and financial assistance R. Muthuraj Principal Scientist, CRCRI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icar-ctcri-thiruvananthapuram-raises-cassava-seed-villages-in-pudukottai-district/article36833055.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Inviting NSG for anti-hijack drill figures at airport committee meet||Inviting the elite National Security Guard for anti-hijack drill and other security-related issues were discussed at the aerodrome committee members meeting held at the international airport here on Monday. Presided over by Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, who is also the committee chairman, the meeting saw the participation of Airport Director, Tiruchi, S. Dharmaraj, CISF personnel, police and revenue officials and other stakeholders. During the hour-long meeting, discussions were held on informing the NSG in advance while carrying out anti-hijack exercises at the airport. The meeting was informed that 16 surveillance cameras had been installed at the vehicular parking area in the airport. Eviction of residents of Ambedkar Nagar close to the airport since the area impeded airport expansion and alternative arrangements for them through the district administration or the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board also figured at the meeting. Intensifying patrolling by city police in areas surrounding the airport, conducting checks to find out if any outsiders resided close to it and creating awareness of the ban imposed on operating drones within a three-km radius of the facility and establishing posts manned by police personnel at the entry and exit gates of the international airport also formed part of the discussions, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inviting-nsg-for-anti-hijack-drill-figures-at-airport-committee-meet/article36833044.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ killing in UP flayed||The Aikkiya Vivasayigal Munnani, AITUC and CPI on Monday staged demonstrations here condemning the killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh after a vehicle that was part of the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra was alleged to have run over them deliberately. Around 60 members of the Munnani holding placards and led by the outfit’s district organiser, Ayilai Sivasuriyan, staged the stir for an hour near Anna statue at Chinthamani here. The demonstrators urged the BJP government to take steps to stop the killing of farmers. They also demanded the arrest of those who were behind the killings of farmers in Uttar Pradesh, which triggered violence. They raised slogans condemning the killings and in support of their demands. Meanwhile, a group of about 80 Congress functionaries were arrested here after they staged a road roko condemning the detention of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra by Uttar Pradesh police in Hargaon area while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of the four farmers who were killed. The Congress functionaries marched from their party office near Main Guard gate towards Teppakulam post office where they resorted to a road roko condemning the detention of Ms. Vadra and demanding her release. The agitation was led by urban district president Jawahar. Karur MP S. Jothimani, former Mayor Sujatha and others participated. Police released them later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-killing-in-up-flayed/article36833047.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 293 fresh positive cases, five more fatalities||The central region reported 293 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, a slight dip compared to the previous days. The number of patients who succumbed to the illness in the region too witnessed a slight decrease. Five patients died of the viral infection in the region, three of whom hailed from Thanjavur, while one patient each hailed from Tiruvarur and Pudukottai. Thanjavur district continued to report a high number of fresh COVID-19 cases. On Monday 90 patients reported COVID-19 positive in the district. Tiruvarur reported a sudden spike in cases yet again, with 55 fresh cases reported in the district. Meanwhile, in Tiruchi, 50 cases were reported. Mayiladuthurai reported 25 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam reported 24, and Pudukottai 20. Karur district reported 18 COVID-19 positive cases. Both Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported a further dip, reporting six and five fresh cases respectively, the lowest numbers in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-293-fresh-positive-cases-five-more-fatalities/article36833058.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for hurling bottles containing fuel and damaging vehicle in Tiruchi||A 27-year-old man has been arrested here on the charge of hurling bottles containing fuel on a house and allegedly damaging a vehicle at Srinivasa Nagar area here. The accused, R. Divakaran, a resident of Jaihindpuram in Madurai, was arrested on Sunday night by a special police team. Police sources said Divakaran had been staying with his relative in Srinivasa Nagar. His relatives' daughters were learning to ride a scooter in Srinivasa Nagar area on October 1 when their vehicle and another two-wheeler driven by Darshan collided. A verbal quarrel erupted between Darshan and the two girls with the former seeking compensation from the girls for the accident. This led to intervention of the family members of both sides, including Divakaran, who came in support of the girls leading to a temporary truce. The sources said Divakaran reportedly called Darshan over phone and allegedly spoke in an intimidated manner leading to a verbal duel between them. Later, Divakaran went to Darshan's house and hurled a couple of bottles containing fuel believed to be kerosene. However, they did not explode but the glass pieces hit Darshan's mother Kokila, the complainant in the case. Divakaran is alleged to have hit with a sharp weapon a two-wheeler parked in Darshan's house damaging it and left the spot. Acting on a complaint, the Woraiyur police booked a case against Divakaran, who was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-hurling-bottles-containing-fuel-and-damaging-vehicle-in-tiruchi/article36833040.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special drive leads to arrest of 113 people||As many as 113 people, who were found to be indulging in various illegal activities, were arrested during a special drive conducted by Tiruchi Rural Police in the district. The drive, which was carried out from the afternoon of October 2 to the next day morning, was conducted on the instructions of Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Pa. Moorthy. Five persons who were found selling ganja and 11 others involved in sand smuggling were arrested during the special drive by Tiruchi Rural Police. Seventy people who were found selling TASMAC liquor illegally and 20 others selling banned tobacco products were also held during the drive. Cases were registered against the accused and they were sent to judicial remand, a police press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-leads-to-arrest-of-113-people/article36833048.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Banana auction picks up at Kattuputhur||Arrivals at the weekly banana auction conducted under the auspices of the Tiruchirapalli Market Committee at the Regulated Market at Kattuputhur in the district is gradually picking up after a dip in recent weeks. On Monday, about 38 tonnes of banana brought in by about 85 farmers were traded at the auction, according to sources in the market committee functioning under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business. About 1,272 bunches of banana were sold for Rs. 1.44 lakh with eight traders participating in the auction to buy the fruit. Slight dip According to the sources, the arrivals were good during August, but came down subsequently. However, with the festival season, they are expected to pick up again. Banana varieities such as karpooravalli , rasthali , elaichi and poovan are largely traded at the auction. The sources also indicate that efforts are being made to attract traders to resume auctions at the Integrated Market Complex for Banana at Thiruchendurai in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-auction-picks-up-at-kattuputhur/article36833049.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Spirited electioneering ends without untoward incidents||Intense electioneering for the first phase of rural civic polls, scheduled for Wednesday, ended on Monday evening without any toward incident. Unlike the Parliamentary and Assembly polls, electioneering for the rural civic polls, to be held in two phases in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, is intense as it is being fought on party and caste lines. Though the State Election Commission has imposed restrictions and stipulated poll codes, the candidates spent a lot and used as many vehicles as they can deploy for the campaign. While political affiliation of the candidates took the back seat, caste factor played a major role in the electioneering as the candidates, after filing their nominations, met the caste leaders to get their backing and the community votes. Whipping caste sentiments indirectly, the election campaign messages were shared among different caste groups on social media in a bid to keep the caste sentiments high. Fortunately, electioneering with caste overtones did not result in any clash, thanks to precautionary measures taken by the district administration and the police. The electioneering also marked the commissions and the omissions of those who represented the people in various local body positions in the past. Those who gave tall promises in the past to fetch votes and subsequently failed to fulfil them were mocked on the social media by their rivals in a bid to defeat them. WhatsApp messages In places such as Kuruvikulam, Avudaiyanur, Oothumalai and other areas of Tenkasi district, the voters, especially the youth, warned the aspirants, through WhatsApp messages, against indulging in corrupt practices upon getting elected. The messages shared through social media said those who get elected to serve the public should be transparent and upright throughout their term. Else it would result in questioning them during gram sabha meetings and other forum, for which they should be prepared. Though communally surcharged Tirunelveli and Tenkasi are known for the people’s volatile nature, especially during elections, an alert police exerted pressure on the troublemakers all the time. Sensing the trouble in store, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan ensured the detention of a few caste leaders under the Goondas Act well before filing of nominations. The SP made night visit to a few trouble spots, including Munneerpallam area that witnessed two gruesome murders recently with caste overtones. He said police personnel from eight districts had been deployed in the district to strengthen security arrangements. He also took out a flag march in Munneerpallam, Marudham Nagar and Mullai Nagar areas as these villages remain tense after the two murders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spirited-electioneering-ends-without-untoward-incidents/article36833350.ece
05 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Block observers deployed in all unions to monitor poll code violations||To check poll code violations till the end of polling to be held on October 6 and 9, block observers have been deployed in all nine panchayat unions of the district. Polling for electing 12 district panchayat ward councillors, 122 panchayat union ward councillors, 204 village panchayat presidents and 1,731 village panchayat ward members in nine blocks of the district are to be held in two phases – on October 6 and 9. In the first phase, polling will be conducted in 621 polling centres in Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Maanur, Palayamkottai and Paapaakudi unions. Nanguneri, Kalakkad, Valliyoor and Radhapuram unions will go for polls on Saturday Randomisation of these polling personnel was held at the Collectorate here on Monday in the presence of Election Observer J. Jayakanthan and Collector V. Vishnu. The personnel, after the end of the third phase training, will receive on Tuesday (October 5) the polling booth allotment based on this randomisation. Mr. Vishnu said block observers have been deployed to take swift and appropriate action on election model code conduct violation complaints, if any. The public and representatives of the candidates may contact the block observers at 70103 26716 (for Tirunelveli), 94454 77846 (Cheranmahadevi), 94866 57500 (Maanur), 95856 03363 (Palayamkottai), 94439 36959 (Paapaakudi), 95979 53053 (Nanguneri), 94437 91079 (Kalakkad), 98430 53352 (Radhapuram) and 87546 18584 (Valliyoor). These block observers will also monitor the counting of votes on October 12, Mr. Vishnu said. Tenkasi Block observers have been deployed in all ten unions of the district to monitor violation of election model code of conduct during the polling. For Alangulam union, the public and the representatives of the candidates may register their complaints with Sankara Narayanan via 94421 52534. For other unions: Kadayam – Nallamuthu, 99947 88829; Tenkasi – P. Kokila, 94428 13719; Keezhapaavoor – M. Kabeer, 82489 79065; Kuruvikulam – A. Ramasubbu, 94428 93039; Melaneelithanallur – Nainar Mohamed, 94434 65853; Sankarankovil – Hazrath Begam, 93425 95660; Shencottai – A. Sethuramalingam, 98942 36533; Kadayanallur – N. Ramachandran, 94450 00478 and Vasudevanallur – Mahizhamuthu, 89255 04985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/block-observers-deployed-in-all-unions-to-monitor-poll-code-violations/article36833348.ece
05 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Two boys drown in quarry||Two boys drowned in a defunct stone quarry in North Thazhaiyooththu near here on Monday. Police said K. Shakthi, 10, and his friend V. Karthik, 13, both hailing from Thazhaiyooththu, went to the quarry pit in North Thazhaiyooththu to take bath.. When they were taking bath in the quarry, the boys accidentally drowned after moving to a deep end of the pit. After passers-by saw the abandoned cycle of the boys parked near the quarry and their clothes lying nearby, they informed the Thazhaiyooththu police , who retrieved the bodies and sent it to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. During investigation, the police found that the quarry belonged to one Mayil Pandian and that it was lying defunct for the past few years. “Since good number of stone quarries around Thazhaiyooththu are defunct now, the owners should be asked to erect barbed wire fences around the quarries to prevent anyone trespassing into their property, which would also prevent loss of lives,” the locals said. Thazhaiyooththu police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-drown-in-quarry/article36833042.ece
05 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 87 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 615.97 cusecs and 504.25 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 63.90 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 157 cusecs and no water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36833352.ece
05 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ministers pay tribute to Tiruppur Kumaran||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj paid tributes to freedom fighter Tiruppur Kumaran on his 118th birth anniversary here on Monday. The Ministers, along with Tiruppur South MLA K. Selvaraj and District Collector S. Vineeth, paid floral tributes to the bust in the memorial building near Tiruppur Railway Station in the city. Mr. Saminathan told mediapersons he had received petitions regarding the construction of a memorial arch and roof for the Tiruppur Kumaran memorial pillar on Kumaran Road, where the freedom fighter was attacked by the police in 1932. These petitions will be taken to the attention of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Mr. Saminathan said. Loan waiver certificates Following this, Mr. Saminathan and Ms. Kayalvizhi inaugurated the issuing of loan waiver certificates to farmers under the Department of Cooperation at the District Collectorate. A release said that farm loans worth Rs. 529.9 crore were waived by the State government for 46,903 farmers in Tiruppur district. Among them, the loan waiver certificates were issued to 40,907 farmers on Monday in the district and the remaining certificates would be issued by the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-pay-tribute-to-tiruppur-kumaran/article36832978.ece
05 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s decision on local body polls personal: Annamalai||The Pattali Makkal Katchi’s decision to go it alone in the upcoming local body elections is “personal”, said Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Annamalai in Tiruppur on Monday. He paid tributes at the Tiruppur Kumaran memorial in the city on the freedom fighter’s 118th birth anniversary. “They [PMK] have taken this decision to strengthen their party,” he told mediapersons. However, the party continues to be a part of the National Democratic Alliance led by the BJP and commenting on their recent decision “would not be civil,” Mr. Annamalai added. On whether the AIADMK-BJP alliance would be able to win in the local body polls against the DMK, he said that the “people’s mindset could change anytime.” More women and Scheduled Caste candidates have been given opportunities to contest in the local body elections, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-decision-on-local-body-polls-personal-annamalai/article36832982.ece
05 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker rescued from well||Personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services on Sunday rescued a migrant worker who accidentally fell into an 80-foot-deep well near Palladam in Tiruppur district. Officials said Saiful Ali (23) from Assam, who was working in a private garment company, was walking while using his mobile phone at Balaji Nagar in Ganapathipalayam when he accidentally fell into the well around 7 p.m. The well had about 10 feet of water and the youth was able to swim, which helped him stay afloat. On receiving information, a team from the Palladam Fire Station led by Station Officer P. Sureshkumar reached the spot around 8.15 p.m. Special Station Officer K. Thangavel was lowered into the well by the team, which lifted the worker out of the well, the officials said. The rescue operation lasted about 30 minutes. The youth did not suffer any injuries and was sent to Palladam Government Hospital for check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-worker-rescued-from-well/article36832989.ece
05 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tiger T23 is still elusive||The ninth day of the operation to locate and tranquillise tiger T23 in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) ended on Monday, with the Forest Department no closer to its objective. Teams on elephant-back and on foot combed through the Masinagudi and Singara forest ranges in search of the tiger that has not been spotted since Saturday. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj also took part in the search, riding on a kumki elephant. Three tiger sightings were reported around the operation area on Monday. While one sighting was dismissed as that of another tiger in the vicinity, a vehicle-safari operator told officials that he spotted an injured tiger, resembling T23, along the Masinagudi-Theppakadu Road. However, teams were unable to locate it. Later, T23 is believed to have been spotted along the Sigur Road. Officials said their focus would be on the area on Tuesday. MTR Field Director D. Venkatesh said locating the tiger proved to be a challenge because of the terrain and the forest cover. Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, Deputy Director of MTR, Core Area, said the search was continuing with drones, sniffer dogs and field teams. The search area was expanded to Devan Estate at Gudalur where the tiger is believed to have attacked another person on September 24, leading to his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-t23-is-still-elusive/article36832968.ece
05 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 17 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,456, with 17 new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 48,098 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 235. The death toll is 1,123. Sixteen cases were reported in Ranipet, 18 in Tirupattur and 23 in Tiruvannamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-17-fresh-cases/article36833283.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||155 test positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district||A total of 155 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The district had 1,901 active cases of the disease and 195 persons recovered. The Health Department said that Coimbatore district’s test positivity rate stood at 1.5% on Sunday when 10,260 swab samples were tested and 158 persons were found positive. Tiruppur district reported 74 fresh cases, which took the tally to 93,347. The overall toll remained at 956 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 852 active cases and 82 patients from the district recovered on Monday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Sunday’s data was 1.5%. In the Nilgiris, 35 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,881. The number of deaths stood at 202 while 377 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/155-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-coimbatore-district/article36832992.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin writes to CMs of 12 States||A copy of the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee’s report on the adverse impact of the NEET and a copy of the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act, 2021 — adopted in the Assembly last month on the basis of the report — were also enclosed with the letter. Mr. Stalin also requested his counterparts to ensure that the students of their States, especially those hailing from rural areas and the marginalised sections, were not put to hardship in obtaining admission to higher education institutions. He also instructed the DMK MPs to hand over the “translated report of the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee to highlight the State government’s efforts” and to seek the support of the respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-writes-to-cms-of-12-states/article36832944.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foundation Day||CSIR-Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CSIR-CECRI), Karaikudi celebrated the 80th Foundation Day of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on September 26 through virtual mode. K. Sivan, Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and secretary, Department of Space, was the chief guest. He delivered an inspiring speech sharing his journey in ISRO and how he received training and guidance from giants which moulded and helped him to overcome many obstacles and transformed many failures into successes, particularly the challenging GSLV Project. He cited many success stories, including SITARA - 6D trajectory simulation software and the invention of day-of launch wind biasing strategy which the whole world is trying to emulate. Vipin Sondhi, Managing Director and CEO, Ashok Leyland, the guest of honour, talked on future trends in automotive industry and called for more industry-research- academia partnerships, emphasising the concept of ‘Create in India; Create for the World.’ Director N. Kalaiselvi and Chief Scientist V. Saraswathy also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-day/article36833081.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CAMPUS CONNECT||A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between The Universiti Teknologi MARA, Malaysia, and Bharathidasan University (BDU) recently, for jointly conducting symposia, conferences, short courses, and student and faculty exchange. Mohd. Nazip Suratman, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation), Universiti Teknologi MARA, Malaysia, and BDU Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam exchanged the MoU documents. Prof. Selvam said the MoU will bring about synergy in research. Registrar G. Gopinath said the MoU will pave way for academic collaboration amongst various departments of the two universities.   Bishop Heber College Celebrated Platinum Jubilee Celebrations of the Church of South India, and Ruby Celebrations of the Department of Social Work recently. Most Rev. A. Dharmaraj Rasalam, Moderator, Church of South India, SYNOD, opened the III Floor of UG Blocks and laid foundation for the New Bridge connecting PG block in the presence of the Principal D. Paul Dhayabaran, Principal, and Shirly Rasalam, President, Women's Fellowship CSI-South Kerala Diocese. Bishop of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Diocese and College General Body Chairman Rt. Rev. D. Chandrasekaran presided over. Rt. Rev. Dr. D. James Srinivasan, Bishop Emeritus offered felicitations. A book, Jaadhikal Illaiyadi Pappa - A Biblical Perspective, written by the former Principal, M. Marcus Diepen Boominathan, was released on the occasion. An ambulance and medical equipment were given to CSI Mission Hospital Woraiyur Tiruchi, by the Tiruchi - Thanjavur Diocese.   J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam, in association with with ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research, Hyderabad, initiated an off-campus Faculty Development Programme on Monday. The FDP over a five-day duration on 'Competency Enhancement in Agricultural Research and Education for the Faculty of TNJFU will orient faculty on technology developments in teaching and on skills to be developed by the teaching faculty to cope up with the demands in the frontier areas of fisheries sector, Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar said, presiding over the inaugural session. Inaugurating the programme, Srinivasa Rao, Director, ICAR-NAARM, dwelt on improvisation of fish production/livelihood, opportunities for fisheries research, strategies for pollution and chemical load reduction in fish ponds and to cope-up with climate change, maintenance of water quality parameters in fish farming, health benefits of fish consumption, combat malnutrition and finally on the augmentation of a fish value chain in domestic and international marketing of fish and fishery   CARE College of Arts and Science exposed first-year students to nuances of entrepreneurship on the first day in their college. Rajeev Roy, CEO, XCEED, and Professor, XLRI, spoke on the opportunities for entrepreneurship in the country. Presiding over, B. Prative Chend, CEO, CARE Group of Institutions, explained the importance of practical learning. About 200 students participated in the virtual event. Meritorious students were honoured on the occasion.   The Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering, CARE College of Engineering, joined hands with the IEEE Student branch-Madras Section and IEEE Photonics Society, Bangalore Chapter, to organise a five-day Faculty Development Program on 'Recent Advancements in Photonics and its Applications'. Lectures were delivered by faculty drawn from National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi; NMAM Institute of Technology, Karnataka; Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai; Malnad College of Engineering, Karnataka; and Preetha Sharan, The Oxford College of Engineering, Karnataka.   The NSS-WISH Forum of Bharathidasan University organised a day-long awareness programme on 'Menstrual Hygiene Management for the Adolescent Girls' in its campus. Presiding over, Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam said hygiene, and physical and mental health was quite important, especially during the pandemic period. At the technical session attended by about 150 NSS volunteers and programme officers from various colleges, N.D. Parimala Devi, formerly Dean, Government Medical College, Pudukkottai, explained how menstrual hygiene was related to women's hormonal balance, and A.K. Chithra, Associate Professor, Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College, Perambalur, on 'proven methods of menstrual hygiene and their relevance today', while M.V. Alli, Associate Professor, Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College on 'Nutritional Management for Adolescent Girls'.   Activities of the Chemical Engineering Association (ChEA) for 2021-22 was initiated by the Chemical Engineering Department of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, recently on the theme: Next Generation Engineering Materials. The chief guest Praveen Linga, Dean’s Chair Associate Professor at the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore, delivered a lecture in virtual mode on how materials like Clathrate Hydrates or Gas Hydrates were making an impact in today's world. Presiding over, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas launched the newsletter and the website for Alchemy’22 Symposium.   The PG and Research Department of Chemistry, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College, conducted a special lecture programme inviting K. Pandian, Controller of Examinations and Professor of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Madras, Guindy Campus, Chennai. In his address on 'Two-Dimensional Nanomaterials- Recent Trends', Mr. Pandian elaborated on various developments including carbon nanotube, structure of two-dimensional nanomaterials, differences between graphite and diamond, electrical and biological appliucations of graphene, drug delivery, and cancer cell imaging. M. Vasuki, Principal In-Charge, spoke.   The NSS unit of Holy Cross College, celebrated NSS Day recently through planting of saplings in the campus. Rev. Sr. Anne Xavier, Secretary, and Rev. Sr. Christina Bridget, Principal, joined the NSS programme officers and students in the greening drive. The college was among 75 institutions affiliated to Bharathidasan University to carry out the exercise to create awareness among the younger generation to safeguard their surroundings and have a better future, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article36833041.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: Celebration of India’s 75 years of Independence – Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Anna Auditorium, 4 p.m.  Adithya School of Business Management : Industry Practical Training, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36832990.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, five day virtual workshop on Technical Analysis for Security Market, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.  Salem   Sona College of Technology: One week faculty development programme on digital transformation trends in construction industry, online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article36833089.ece
05 October 2021||B.C. Road (Dakshina Kannada),KARNATAKA||Report must to include castes under Backward Classes category: Hegde||The State government cannot decide on the demand for inclusion of different castes into the Backward Classes category till the State Commission submits its report, said Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission chairperson K. Jayaprakash Hegde here on Monday. Speaking at the Antyodaya awareness programme for elected representatives of panchayats and urban local bodies, Mr. Hegde said that the Commission has started the process of collecting empirical data about the social and education status of different castes. “Empirical data is very essential. It was the absence of this data that led the Supreme Court to strike down recently a decision of the Maharashtra Government,” he said. Laborious task Collection of empirical data is a laborious task and it will take time to finish it. The Commission cannot give the report in the absence of such data. After the report of the Commission comes, the State government will take the decision, he added. States empowered Mr. Hegde said that in view of a demand from the States, the Union government recently brought in changes in the Act to empower State governments to include castes in the 1, 2A, 2B, 3A and 3B Backward Classes categories. At present, there are more than 200 castes in these five categories. The total reservation matrix for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes cannot go beyond 50%, he said. He said that a good number of people belonging to Backward Classes are not aware of the categories they are in. Officials are facing problems in issuing caste certificate for some castes as they figure both in the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes categories. Mr. Hegde called upon people to approach the Commission if they find any caste that deserves to be included in the Backward Classes categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-must-to-include-castes-under-backward-classes-category-hegde/article36833403.ece
05 October 2021||B.C.Road (Dakshina Kannada),KARNATAKA||‘HoDs accountable for use of welfare funds’||Heads of departments (HoDs) in the State governments, including the Chief Secretary, are accountable for the use of funds meant for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes welfare, said Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayanaswamy here on Monday. Speaking at an Antodyaya programme to create awareness among elected members of gram panchayats and urban local bodies about programmes of Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare departments, Mr. Narayanaswamy said that when funds under Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan are used by different departments then, each one of these departments is accountable for every single rupee that is spent. In a recent review meeting he held in Jammu and Kashmir, Mr. Narayanaswamy said, only officials from the Social Welfare Department turned up. Talking exception to such conduct, the Union Minister of State said that as the Social Justice Minister he is the custodian of all Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes. “Chief Secretaries and Principal Secretaries to governments are accountable for each rupee spent for their [Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes] welfare and how this expenditure has impacted their lives,” he said. Karnataka, he added, was among the few States that has made a law that mandates departments to use funds meant for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes welfare. Lashing out at officials for not working effectively in implementing Union government welfare schemes, the Union Minister expressed the need for Chief Secretaries and other heads of departments in the States to regularly review the use of funds and work towards uplift of the downtrodden. Earlier, in his inaugural address, Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the two departments are working towards using gram panchayats for online filing of applications for various welfare schemes. “This will be more beneficial and help stop the use of brokers,” he said. Lauding the initiative of Mr. Poojary in holding awareness conclaves for elected representatives, Dakshina Kannada MP and State Bharatiya Janata Party president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Mr. Poojary is showing the way how the State government can reach out to people on their doorsteps. After the inauguration programme, elected representatives had a detailed discussion with Social Welfare Additional Chief Secretary N. Nagambika Devi, Social Welfare Commissioner Ravikumar Surapur, Backward Classes Welfare Commissioner P. Vasant Kumar and other officials about various welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hods-accountable-for-use-of-welfare-funds/article36833405.ece
05 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Khanapur murder: ‘Arrest perpetrators of crime’||Members of the Anjuman Islam committee staged a protest in Khanapur on Monday against, what they called, the murder of Arbaz Mulla, a young businessman, by right-wing organisation members who were upset with his inter-faith relationship. The committee members walked to the tahsildar’s office and submitted a memorandum to the government demanding the immediate arrest of the accused. They urged the police to conduct a probe into the incident and ensure that the offenders are punished. The victim was tortured before he was killed, they said. There is enough evidence to implicate the accused as they have threatened him in person and over the phone, they said. The victim’s mother has revealed this to their relatives, the media, and the police, they added. Meanwhile, Inspector-General of Police, Northern Range, N. Satish Kumar visited the spot and met members of the victim’s family on Monday. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi has formed a special team to crack the case, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khanapur-murder-arrest-perpetrators-of-crime/article36833109.ece
05 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Student found dead in room||A young pharmacy college student was found dead in his room in Belagavi on Monday. Bharat Patil of Ichalakaranji in Maharashtra was found dead in his room in Nehru Nagar. The APMC Police, who searched his room, said that they had found a letter that could be considered as a death note. He seems to have ended his life due to examination tension and family troubles, the police said. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-found-dead-in-room/article36833100.ece
05 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLA seeks trifurcation of Belagavi||Satish Jarkiholi, MLA and Congress leader, has sought the trifurcation of Belagavi, as he felt the district was too big and unwieldy for smooth administration. Speaking to journalists after the public celebrations of his son Rahul Jarkiholi’s birthday on Sunday, he said the creation of Vijayanagara district should motivate the people of Gokak and Chikkodi to demand new districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-seeks-trifurcation-of-belagavi/article36833110.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain floods homes; one dead||The heavy rain that lashed most parts of the city on Sunday evening wreaked havoc, bringing down trees, and flooding hundreds of homes. Apart from the death of a person reported near South End Circle, at least six head of cattle were reportedly washed away, while three head of livestock died due to the downpour at Kenchenahalli, coming under Rajarajeshwari Nagar zone. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) control rooms were flooded with complaints from citizens, following the rain that was accompanied by thunder and lightning. Rajarajeshwari Nagar zone was said to be the worst affected. In Rajarajeshwari Nagar zone alone, around 260 houses were inundated partially, damaging household items. The extent of damage is being ascertained. While the BBMP is helping residents drain out water, the silt accumulated will have to be cleared by the residents themselves, said a senior official. “BBMP personnel cannot be expected to clear silt as well,” the official said. Tough time Complaints of rain water entering homes, especially those in low-lying areas, were received from almost all zones. Motorists had a tough time, as water logging was reported on most roads, including Pramod Layout, Janapriya Layout, BDA Layout, Nagarbhavi, Nayandahalli Junction, Richmond Circle, Sampangiramanagar, J.C. Nagar, Pipeline Road in Kurubarahalli, Shivananda Circle, Koramangala, Malleswaram, and Marathahalli. A 10-foot-high wall belonging to HAL collapsed in Rameshnagar, 1st Main Road, coming under Mahadevapura zone. Several vehicles parked next to the wall, including three cars, were damaged. Result of cloudburst The heavy rain, accompanied by thunder and lightning, that the India Meteorological Department attributed to a cloudburst, was responsible for inundating homes, converting several thoroughfares into rivulets and stormwater drains into rivers. The department has forecast rain/thundershowers over the next two days. Until 12 a.m. on Monday, the highest rainfall of 98 mm was recorded at Jnana Bharati, 91 mm at Nagarbhavi, 90 mm at Hampi Nagar, 78 mm at Nandini Layout, 67.5 mm at Hegganahalli, 64.5 mm at Maruthi Mandir, 58.5 mm at V.V. Puram, 53.5 mm at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, and 48.5 mm at Dayananda Nagar. Speaking at the sidelines of an event, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai admitted that the heavy rain had wreaked havoc in the city. He said that the civic chief had directed various zonal officials to take up relief work immediately to ensure vehicular movement is not affected. Priority would, however, be accorded to providing relief to homes that were flooded. ‘Funds will be released’ “I have been apprised of the situation. Following tree fall, vehicles have been damaged in many places, while livestock loss has also been reported. Old buildings have also been damaged. We are monitoring the situation. The government will release funds required to provide relief,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-floods-homes-one-dead/article36832890.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constitution Club for legislators to come up at Balabrooie: Kageri||The over two-decade-old demand of legislators to have their own club could be gathering pace with Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Monday announcing that it has been unanimously decided to have a Constitution Club located at Balabrooie Guest House, close to the Vidhana Soudha. While the demand had gathered pace in 2016 when a proposal was mooted to set up a Constitution Club at Carlton House, which houses the Criminal Investigation Department, it had encountered opposition from within the government. The proposal was subsequently dropped. An earlier proposal had identified the heritage Balabrooie Guest House, which had also run into opposition. The Constitution Club in Bengaluru will be modelled on Delhi’s Constitution Club and will be named the Karnataka Legislature Institute. “It has been decided to have the club at Balabrooie. The heritage structure will not be affected and a few facilities will be introduced to start the club,” Mr. Kageri told reporters. He said a club meant for legislators had been under discussion for several years, and the decision to start it was taken during the just-concluded legislature session. “The Chief Secretary has been directed to take steps to start the club. Legislators need a forum for discussions and the proposal has been there for some years now,” he said, adding that he would visit the Constitution Club in Delhi to study its functioning. More than 250 legislators and former legislators had paid membership money over a decade ago when the proposal gathered momentum. Meanwhile, the Speaker also said it was a good development that the Congress had announced that it would not hold dharna in the House, and that there were no adjournments during the recently held monsoon session. He said the 10-day session had seen the Assembly passing 19 Bills after healthy discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constitution-club-for-legislators-to-come-up-at-balabrooie-kageri/article36832919.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTCs fail to pay COVID compensation to families||Last year, the State government announced that Rs. 30 lakh compensation would be paid to the families of Road Transport Corporations (RTCs) employees who died of COVID-19. Several months have passed, but kin of over 250 employees are still waiting for the promised amount. The corporations are buying more time, citing that they do not have financial resources and that they are waiting for detailed guidelines from the State government on payment of the compensation. According to data, 276 RTC employees have died of COVID-19, of which 96 were working in KSRTC, 108 in BMTC, 48 in NWKRTC, and in 24 Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation. RTC officials claim that of the deceased, a majority contracted the virus off duty and as per government directions sent earlier, only families of on-duty employees who died of COVID-19 are eligible for the compensation. Sources said that RTCs have identified that only 110 contracted the disease while on duty. But this is being challenged. “We collected information under the Right to Information Act. In all four RTCs, 276 staffers died of COVID-19, of which only 11 families have received the compensation. We urge the State government to fulfil promises on providing compensation,” said Taher Hussain, State president of the Welfare Party of India. KSRTC MD Shivayogi C. Kalasad said: “Earlier, the State government asked the corporation to compensate the families by raising funds from internal resources. The issue was also discussed in the Board. Considering the financial condition, the Board decided to ask the government to provide the funds.” He maintained that corporations are waiting for detailed guidelines from the government. “We need clarity on identification of employees who died of COVID-19 while on duty and how to treat cases of those who died while on leave, participating in the strike, or others,” he said. Delay in payment of compensation has angered employees, “Families who lost their earning members are facing many problems. The State government is sending a bad message by delaying the payment. The RTCs should establish a helpdesk to address the grievances of the families,” a BMTC employee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtcs-fail-to-pay-covid-compensation-to-families/article36832899.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to govt. on law on hiking property tax every year||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition questioning the legality of amendments made to the law empowering the municipalities and city corporations to increase property tax every year. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by Nagaraj S. Hongal of Ilkal in Bagalkot district. The petitioner has questioned the legality of Sections 101 and 102A of the Karnataka Municipalities (Second Amendment) Act, 2021, and Section 108 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2021. “Enhancement of property tax cannot be done every year by a welfare state. In a welfare state, the state cannot act like a businessman, and nor is commercial element always the criteria in policy regime,” the petitioner has contended while questioning the legality of the provision that allows increase in property tax every year, even in the absence of revision of guidance values of properties across the State under the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957. Claiming that the property tax charged in Karnataka was highest in the country, the petitioner has contended that the amended provisions were arbitrary as they gave “unbridled and unfettered powers to local bodies to charge higher property tax every year with or without [the provision of] higher civic amenities”. “The new law imposes an obligation on the property owner, but there are no checks and balances on the local bodies, or [any effort] to test the level of efficiency of local bodies,” the petitioner has pointed out. The amended provision to increase the revenue of municipal bodies, which is unheard of in the past, would create an extraordinary burden on all sections of society, including the marginalised ones, the petitioner has claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-govt-on-law-on-hiking-property-tax-every-year/article36832916.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High-level panel to look into doubling farmers’ income||The State government has set up a high-level committee, including the Additional Chief Secretary and Development Commissioner, to work towards doubling the income of farmers. Disclosing this on Monday, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil told reporters that in an effort to double farmers’ income, a programme to improve agricultural practices has been taken up at a cost of Rs. 7,234 crore. He said that over the next two years, comprehensive agricultural practices would be implemented in all gram panchayats of the State. “A meeting chaired by the Chief Minister also saw discussions on strategies to double farmers’ income,” he said. He said that as against the target of sowing 77 lakh hectares for the kharif season, the State had covered 77.20 lakh hectares, while 28.34 lakh tonnes of fertiliser had been sold, against the demand for 26.47 lakh tonnes. He also said that 35.41 lakh tonnes were stocked in the State. Meanwhile, 12.8 lakh farmers have opted for crop insurance. “During 2020-21, the State produced 158.73 lakh tonnes of foodgrains — a 10% increase over the previous year. The national average increase was 2%,” the Minister said. He also said that between April 1 and September 30, the quality control squads in the Agriculture Department had seized 1,394 quintals of sowing seeds, 8,039 tonnes of fertiliser, and about 10,000 kg of insecticide. “Crops on nearly 88% of the agricultural land have been surveyed for pre-and post-monsoon crops,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-level-panel-to-look-into-doubling-farmers-income/article36832917.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Building tilts; owner gets notice||A multistorey building tilted, creating panic among local residents. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has now slapped a notice on the owner of the building that is situated on 23rd Main, Poornachandra D. Group Layout, Srigandada Kaval, on Monday. The civic body has asked tenants to vacate the premises. According to Reddy Shankar Babu, Zonal Commissioner, Rajarajeshwari Nagar zone, the building has been constructed in the buffer zone of a major storm water drain, with one of walls constructed on the retaining wall of the drain. The building has a ‘B’ Khata and no building plan approval has been accorded by the BBMP. He inspected the building, along with zonal joint commissioner and senior officials. He told The Hindu that the building was standing precariously and had been reportedly constructed without any pillars. “Apart from issuing a notice to the owner, we have also filed a police complaint. If any untoward incident happens and there is loss to life or property, the building owner will be held responsible,” he said. Mr. Babu said that the zonal chief engineer had been directed to submit a report, following which show cause notices would be issued to civic officials for allowing the building. Civil-Aid Associated inspected the building to assess its safety and stability. BBMP is awaiting the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/building-tilts-owner-gets-notice/article36832891.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prasanna’s paintings on auction to raise funds to train artisans||Theatre personality Prasanna has turned artist and plans to auction the works he did on fabric during the second wave of the pandemic. The money raised will be used to set up a design centre at Charaka, where artisans from across the State will be trained in a variety of design technologies. During the first wave, Charaka, a women’s self-help group based out of Heggodu, continued production of cloth through the lockdown, and with no market for the goods produced, stared at insolvency. “In the first wave, we only wanted to give work and pay, so we produced in excess and suffered losses. We learnt our lessons. During the second wave, we pooled our resources and took to retrain our artisans, paying them salaries, making use of the lockdown,” said Mr. Prasanna. Through two months, the women at Charaka were trained in a variety of textile printing technology - block printing, stencils, and various imprints. For the first time, Charaka also experimented by using mud as a dye. “We had not done it before as only certain kinds of mud found in North India was suitable. But we experimented with a few colours of mud available in Malnad and found success,” he explained. “Inspired by the creative rush, I did nearly a hundred paintings in two months, all of nature on fabric using various methods to teach artisans. I used them as teaching aides. Artist Niranjan joined me and did several paintings too,” he said. The paintings will be up for auction at Chitrakala Parishath from October 7 to 10 as part of the Pavitra Vastra Abhiyan exhibition, which also features a new line of apparel with printed designs in which the artisans were trained during the second wave. The works will have a base price of Rs. 10,000 and will go to the highest bidder. “We intend to raise over Rs. 12 lakh to develop the design centre at Charaka. We want to develop Charaka into a design, marketing centre, and decentralise production to whoever is ready. We will train them, provide aid, and help them in marketing as well,” Mr. Prasanna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prasannas-paintings-on-auction-to-raise-funds-to-train-artisans/article36832883.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket: Ex-police officer arrested||Officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) unearthed another international drug racket and arrested a 50-year-old man from Kerala, a former police officer in Bahrain, who was allegedly trafficking hashish to the Gulf countries with bases in metro cities across India. A preliminary probe revealed that he procured the drugs from Manali and took it to Kochi via Bengaluru before smuggling it to the Gulf by air cargo. According to the officials, the kingpin was nabbed from a train heading to Bengaluru when he was returning from Manali. “The suspect had been running a drug syndicate that smuggled contraband mainly to Bahrain for a few years now operating with multiple mobile SIM cards. He knew the route and the rules very well as he had served as a police officer in the Bahrain police for nearly 20 years and had returned to Kerala a few years ago. With immense knowledge on the law enforcement in the Gulf nation, he clandestinely began the drug trade,” said an investigating officer. With the NCB Kochi team getting wind of his activities, the sleuths, on September 12, intercepted a courier consignment meant to be shipped to Bahrain and unearthed 3.5 kg of hashish oil that was declared as ayurvedic medicine, following which a hunt was on for the kingpin. It was established that he procured the contraband from a dealer in Himachal Pradesh and brought it by train to Bengaluru and later carried it to Kochi before smuggling it to Bahrain. With information that he was in Bengaluru, the NCB team led by Amit Ghawate, zonal director, tracked him to the train as he was returning from Manali after meeting his contacts. He was arrested and booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.  ‘He knew the route and rules well as he had served as a police officer in the Bahrain police for nearly 20 years and had returned to Kerala a few years ago.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-racket-ex-police-officer-arrested/article36832892.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lokayukta probe ordered into allotment of shops||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered an inquiry by the Lokayukta into alleged illegality in allotment of some shops in Jayanagar shopping complex by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) as it was complained in a PIL petition that allotments were done contrary to an undertaking given to the court in 2017. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed in 2019 by M. Sharanu, a social activist. Observing that the court cannot remain a mute spectator of the irregularities, the Bench directed the BBMP Chief Commissioner to cooperate with the Lokayukta by providing documents and details. Giving three months to the Lokayukta to complete the inquiry, the Bench adjourned further hearing till January 2022. The Bench found it necessary to hold an inquiry as it was alleged in the petition that the then Joint Commissioner (South Zone), T.H. Vishwanath, had in 2017 filed an affidavit to the court that around 11 shops would be allotted only by issuing tender. This affidavit was filed in response to an another PIL petition filed in 2017 over a row over allotment. However, in the present petition it has been alleged that those 11 shops were allotted sans inviting tender despite an undertaking given to the court in 2017 in the earlier proceedings. The BBMP, in its response to court’s recent order asking it to explain why the undertaking was not adhered to, had said that the officer who had given the undertaking was no more in service, and that the shops were allotted based on a resolution passed by the BBMP council in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lokayukta-probe-ordered-into-allotment-of-shops/article36832894.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Oppn. takes govt. to task||Both the Opposition Congress and the JD(S) trained their guns on the government in connection with the sufferings of people in some areas of Bengaluru due to heavy rainfall. Reacting to the plight of people in the capital after the overnight rainfall, he said: “There seems to be no government in the State. There is nobody to take responsibility or accountability. The government function on Sunday looked like a party function.” Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday said the overnight rain in Bengaluru had laid bare the development works taken up at R.R. Nagar spending hundreds of crores of rupees. Speaking to reporters at Bidadi, he asked what kind of development had taken place in R.R. Nagar. “Water has gushed into homes and cattle has been swept away. The government said that Rs. 20,000 crore had been spent on road maintenance in the city over the past five years. Where did the money go and how was it spent?” Demanding an inquiry into the money spent, he said: “Should the Chief Minister not tell the people how the money was spent?” In fact, he said “during the coalition rule, Bengaluru development was with the Congress. I had to seek permission from them to even hold a review meeting as a Chief Minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oppn-takes-govt-to-task/article36832895.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for stealing from mobile towers||The Peenya police on Monday arrested a 24-year-old site engineer of a telecom company for stealing 19 UBBP (universal baseband processing) cards from mobile towers across the city to earn money. The accused Gangadhar was caught red-handed during a random vehicle check by the police following a complaint from the company that someone was stealing the cards from their towers. Based on the complaint, the police analysed the CCTV camera footage from in and around the tower and zeroed in on Gangadhar. The police stepped up vigil and on Monday, caught him near Chokkasandra, and recovered two cards worth Rs. 3 lakh stolen recently. The police also raided his house and recovered 12 cards and seized seven cards which the accused had sold to the junk shop for Rs. 500 each. Inquiry revealed that Gangadhar, a native of Kalaburagi and an ITI graduate, worked as a site engineer for the company for two years before he was terminated during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-stealing-from-mobile-towers/article36832896.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers condemn violence in Lakhimpur Kheri||Farmers and other progressive organisations on Monday held multiple protests in across the State condemning the violence against farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. In the districts, where protests were held, a common memorandum addressed to the President was submitted to the Deputy Commissioners. Samyukta Horata, Karnataka, has sought the intervention of the President to sack Ajay Kumar Mishra, Minister of State, Home Affairs, whose son and his associates allegedly mowed down four farmers when they tried to gherao the vehicle. They have also sought the removal of Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister, Haryana, who was caught on camera exhorting people to retaliate against protesting farmers. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, President, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, who led the protest at Mysore Bank Circle said the way the government has clamped down on the opposition showed that the situation was “worse than emergency”. G. C. Bayyareddy, convenor, Samyukta Horata, Karnataka, said, “In the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, BJP seems to have become desperate. They seem to be trying to misuse this violence to tarnish farmer’s protests both in the public and in the courts. But they won’t succeed.” A Congress delegation led by D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah met Governor Tawarchand Gehlot on Monday and submitted a memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-condemn-violence-in-lakhimpur-kheri/article36832902.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||397 new cases, 13 deaths||Karnataka reported 397 new COVID-19 cases and 13 deaths, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s Monday bulletin. Many districts had no new cases. Bengaluru Urban had 166 fresh cases and five deaths, the highest in the State. There are 11,992 active cases in the State, While the positivity rate is 0.5%, and the case fatality rate is 3.27%. As many as 693 recovered. The number of tests conducted was 78,958, and the number of vaccinations was 1,85,051.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/397-new-cases-13-deaths/article36832897.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) to launch voter outreach programme||The Janata Dal (Secular), which has been holding consultation workshops with its leaders and workers over the past one week to rejuvenate the party, is set to hold a ‘Janata Sangama’ from October 16 to reach out to voters across Karnataka. “As part of the programme, leaders will visit every taluk and efforts will be made to strengthen the party from grass roots. Interaction will be arranged directly with the workers on the ground and every village will be visited,” former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy told reporters at Bidadi, where the ‘Janata Parva’ is under way. He said that the gaps in communication between the party and workers have been fixed. Responding to State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar, who had said that the BJP and JD(S) have only focussed on sharing power with Lingayats and Vokkaligas, he asked, “How many communities have you respected? Who caused the defeat of Dalit leaders in your party? It is a long list. Who was responsible for the defeat of G. Parameshwara, N. Dharam Singh, K.H. Muniyappa, and Mallikarjun Kharge?” He said Congress leaders had “no moral right” to talk about the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-to-launch-voter-outreach-programme/article36832921.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sales executive robbed||A sales executive of a private firm was assaulted and robbed by four armed men in Yelahanka on Sunday evening. The victim, Shekhar Reddy, was returning home on his bike from work when four persons on two bikes intercepted him in an isolated place and assaulted him before robbing his gold chain weighing 15 gram, mobile phone, and Rs. 3,000 at knife point. The victim reported the incident to the Yelahanka police who have taken up a case. Efforts are on to identify the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sales-executive-robbed/article36832893.ece
05 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Areca growers assured help||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, on Monday, interacted with areca growers and assured them all support from the government to control the spread of leaf spot (Ele Chukke) disease, fungal infection, affecting areca farms in parts of Tirthahalli and Hosanagar taluks. The Minister had taken a team of scientists to Nalur in Thirthahalli taluk. The disease was noticed in many parts in two taluks as the growers have not been able to spray medicine due to continuous rains in the last five months. The increase in humidity had caused the spread of the disease. “Farmers need not worry. Once the rains recede, the impact of the disease will drrop automatically,” he said. The Home Minister also assured the farmers that the State government would announce subsidies for the medicine they require to control the disease. He would appeal to the Chief Minister to provide the medicine through the Agriculture Department at the Cabinet meeting to be held on Tuesday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/areca-growers-assured-help/article36833212.ece
05 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Energy Minister asks officers to replace damaged transformers speedily||Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar said that all damaged transformers in rural areas will be replaced within 24 hours. He gave this assurance after inaugurating the MESCOM office complex in Chikkamagaluru on Monday. Mr. Kumar said his department was committed to improving services for the rural public. The damaged transformers would be replaced and the officers should not delay in getting the work done. “We will not tolerate corruption in the department. If we hear of officers demanding bribes to replace transformers, they will be suspended within 48 hours of receiving the complaint,” he said. The Minister, who also took part in the adalat, said the department would provide power supply for all those who had built their houses on land, other than forest land or deemed forest land. “Such people need not file no-objection certificates obtained from any agency,” he said. After listening to the complaints raised at the adalat, he told the officers to resolve the same within the stipulated deadline. Once the problem was resolved, the local legislator and Minister should be updated, he said. Further, he said the department had opened transformer banks at Kadur, Chikkamagaluru and Koppa divisions. Besides these, there would be transformer repair centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/energy-minister-asks-officers-to-replace-damaged-transformers-speedily/article36833220.ece
05 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protesters for action against Union Minister Ajay Mishra||On Monday, farmer organisations staged protests in Hassan and Shivamogga condemning the killing of farmers after a vehicle in the convoy of a Union Minister ran over them at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, members of Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha, Karnataka Pranta Raitha Sangha and Left parties participated in the protests. Slogans raised The protesters in Hassan staged a dharna in front of the Hemavati statue. They raised slogans against the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government. They alleged that the incident amounted to nothing less than murder. The government should take action against Union Minister Ajay Mishra and all those involved in the incident, they urged. CPM district secretary Dharmesh, CPI district president Dongre, KPRS district president H.R. Naveen Kumar and Raitha Sangha leaders were present. A similar protest was held in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga. H.R.Basavarajappa, KRRS leader, demanded that the Centre take action against Mr. Mishra holding him responsible for the incident. He also demanded that the President dismiss the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protesters-for-action-against-union-minister-ajay-mishra/article36833214.ece
05 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rain causes tree fall, flooding||Several parts of Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts received heavy rains on Sunday. There were incidents of trees falling on vehicles, traffic jams and flooding of roads in many places. A huge tree fell on a moving car on M.G. Road in Hassan city. The passengers suffered minor injuries. Traffic was hit for over an hour. Power supply was also disrupted in surrounding areas. Bengaluru-Mangaluru Road, N.R. Circle, and other traffic joints in the heart of the city were flooded. The low-lying areas in Beeranahalli Kere locality and adjacent areas were also flooded on the day. Hassan district recorded an average of 8.7 mm of rainfall against the normal of 4.7 mm, as per KSNDMC reports. The downpour hit the residents of Shivamogga city and other areas in the district. A tree fell on a two-wheeler and the power supply lines were also damaged in Joseph Nagar. Shivamogga district recorded 17.2 mm of rainfall on the day, against the normal of 8.3 mm. Parts of Kadur, Chikkamagaluru uand N.R. Pura taluks received rains on the day. The district recorded an average of 14.8 mm of rainfall against the normal of 6.4 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-triggers-tree-fall-flooding/article36833215.ece
05 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||UAS-D teachers launch indefinite protest||Teachers associated with University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad (UAS-D), and working in more than 34 postgraduate centres, spread across seven districts of North Karnataka, launched an indefinite strike on Monday. The teachers, who began the indefinite agitation on UAS campus in Dharwad, are seeking the fulfilment of various demands, including filling vacant posts of teachers and extending various facilities. The protest is being held under the aegis of the Association of Teachers’ Welfare. Association president I.K. Kalappanavar and secretary Mahantesh Nayak said that some of their demands were promotion of teachers under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS-2006) from the due date of eligibility, advance increments for completion of Ph.D, equal credit to all authors of scientific papers, extension of deputation facility for Ph.D, extension of old pension scheme to teachers, recruitment of teachers to fill vacant posts and reducing work burden. Despite the repeated pleas to Vice-Chancellor M.B. Chetti, nothing has been fulfilled. Though there is an acute shortage [to an extent of 50%] of teaching staff, teachers never shirked from carrying the burden of additional work and always made sure that the university performed well, they said. They said that in terms of overall performance, UAS Dharwad stood first in the State and ninth at the national level, which showed that teachers, despite a long list of grievances, had patiently worked all the time and even during the pandemic. Mr. Kalappanavar said that as their demands have been kept pending for long, they decided to launch the indefinite agitation. They will continue this till their demands are met. The association has submitted a charter of demands to the university authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-d-teachers-launch-indefinite-protest/article36833116.ece
05 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Writer V.V. Hebballi passes away||Kannada scholar and creative Hindi writer V.V. Hebballi passed away in Dharwad on Monday. He was 86. He is survived by his wife and three sons. Prof. Hebballi came from a humble background and started his teaching career at Lingaraj College in Belagavi. He also served as principal at S. Nijalingappa College in Bengaluru. In recognition of his service in the field of education, KLE Society honoured him with lifetime membership. A close associate of late Patil Puttappa, he was actively involved in the activities of Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha, Dharwad. He had passion for Hindi learning and writing. He has translated several Hindi books into Kannada. He delivered talks at universities in England, France and the U.S. The last rites were performed on Monday.  A close associate of late Patil Puttappa, Hebballi, who was 86, was actively involved in the activities of Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha of Dharwad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-vv-hebballi-passes-away/article36833108.ece
05 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Students demonstrate seeking free bus passes||Seeking free bus passes, students took out a protest march, under the aegis of the All-India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO), in Dharwad on Monday. The students marched to the old NWKRTC bus station in Dharwad, where they staged a demonstration. They said that the student bus passes issued last year were not used for over four months as the schools and colleges were shut down owing to the pandemic. They said as per government orders, online classes were held till recently and now following a decline in COVID-19 cases, offline classes had begun. Addressing the protesters, district president of AIDSO Mahanthesh Bilur said that as Dharwad was an educational hub, thousands of students from rural areas travelled to Dharwad for classes apart from those residing in the city. “However, the students are under a financial burden as the bus passes have expired and the Transport Department is asking students to enrol for new passes. Owing to the pandemic and lockdown, lakhs of people have lost their jobs and it has also resulted in less wages. Without evaluating the problems of the students, the government has asked students to purchase new bus passes and are charging hefty fees for the same,” he said. AIDSO office-bearers Shashikala Meti, Arun Kadagad, Mahesh, Varun, Venkatesh, and others led the protest. Terming it a grave injustice to the student community, AIDSO would demand the government to take a decision to issue free bus passes to all students, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-demonstrate-seeking-free-bus-passes/article36833114.ece
05 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Congress used BCs, Dalits, minorities as votebank’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that the Congress had used the Backward Classes, Dalits and minorities only as votebank and it has done nothing for the development of these communities. Addressing a gathering at a BJP Other Backward Classes Morcha District-level Working Committee meeting here on Monday, Mr. Eshwarappa accused the Congress of using the communities as vote-bank, while neglecting them after assuming power. Mr. Eshwarappa said that the Congress has lost its ground in Punjab and that that party is on slippery grounds in Rajasthan. The erosion of support from the Dalit and Backward Classes is the reason for the decline of the Congress and the rise of the BJP. The differences of opinion on issues within the party as expressed by a group of Congress leaders (G23) themselves indicate that the Congress is weakening day-by-day, he reiterated. Accusing the Congress of neglecting the rural areas, the Minister said that in the last several years of Congress rule, only three crore households in the country have had access to tap water. But the BJP-led government has given 5 crore water connections under Jal Jeevan Mission in the last two years. The government aims to ensure that every household in the country has piped water connections by 2024, Mr. Eshwarappa added. He said that the “BJP has proved that it is not a Brahmin party as alleged by Opposition parties. Under the BJP government, all sections of people are feeling secure. The party is working for the welfare of every community. In the recent reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, 27 Other Backward Classes, 12 Dalit and eight Adivasi members were inducted into the Modi Cabinet for the first time in the history of the country. Today, the Congress is in a declining stage with several Congress leaders leaving the party to join the BJP.” Members of Legislative Assembly Basavaraj Mattimod, Avinash Jadhav, Subhash Guttedar, Member of Legislative Council Sunil Vallyapure, BJP State vice-president Malikayya Guttedar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-used-bcs-dalits-minorities-as-votebank/article36833103.ece
05 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protesters condemn incident in Lakhimpur Kheri||Condemning Sunday’s Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh, in which at least four farmers were killed, activists and leaders associated with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of different organisations, staged a demonstration outside the district administrative complex in Kalaburagi on Monday. They alleged that the farmers, who were peacefully protesting against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to register their opposition to the three controversial farm laws recently enacted by the Union government, were “deliberately” killed by the BJP Minister’s supporters.  Later, a memorandum was submitted to the office of the Deputy Commissioner. “It is a deliberate attempt to send a warning signal to the farmers in the country. Instead of listening to farmers woes and addressing their concerns, the frustrated BJP government has resorted to suppress the farmers’ agitation by brute force,” Sharanabasappa Mamshetty, district president of Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protesters-condemn-incident-in-lakhimpur-kheri/article36833112.ece
05 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Mallikarjun Kharge should apologise’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa on Monday said that Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge should tender an unconditional apology for disrespecting Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling him “cheap”. He was reacting to a statement made by Mr. Kharge during a press conference in Kalaburagi on Sunday where he said that “Modi himself is cheap and [he] indulged in cheap politics”. Mr. Eshwarappa, condemning the statement, said that Mr. Kharge should tender an apology to Mr. Modi. “Even if the remark against the Prime Minister was a slip of the tongue, Mr. Kharge should apologise,” he added. Though the entire world is praising Mr. Modi, “It is very unfortunate that Mr. Kharge made such a statement. As a senior leader, he [Mr. Kharge] is not expected to make such statements,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mallikarjun-kharge-should-apologise/article36833101.ece
05 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Training centre inaugurated||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa inaugurated the Regional Training Centre of the Abdul Nazir Sab State Institute of Rural Development in Kesaratagi village on the outskirts of Kalaburagi on Monday. The Minister said that the Regional Training Centre has come up on 3.05 acres at a cost of Rs. 8.55 crore. The building has 29 rooms and two dormitories each with a capacity to accommodate 48 trainees. The training centre will conduct programmes for elected representatives that will further help them implement pro-people programmes. The training centre has jurisdiction over 50 taluks and 1,141 gran panchayats in the Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-centre-inaugurated/article36833105.ece
05 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||The Hindu and MCF launch Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations||The Hindu and Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Ltd. (MCF) on Monday launched the week-long Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme at the Lourdes Central School here. Speaking on the occasion, MCF Director (Works), Prabhakar Rao said that Indians should be proud of the achievements the country has registered in the last 75 years. The country has witnessed tremendous growth post independence and is on par with almost all big powers of the world. Mr. Rao said the country could maintain this tempo and register further growth if the younger generation imbibes courage and integrity, besides loving their country. He said everyone has come to respect the unity in diversity that has resulted in growth. MCF, Mr. Rao said, has been contributing to the country’s growth in a significant way. Just as the human body requires nutrients for its growth, the soil too needs nutrients when it comes to food production. That is exactly what MCF has been doing by producing chemical fertilizer for farmers. Praising the initiative, school principal Rev. Fr. Robert D’Souza said by developing positive thoughts, one could overcome any challenge. Instead of blaming others for one’s failure, one has to develop positive attitude. The students in their young age could grow to be treasures for the country if they develop integrity, he said, urging them to learn the independence struggle to understand the value of freedom they are enjoying at present. It is also essential for them to get a peak into farming activities to know the value of food and difficulties associated with food production, Fr. D’Souza said. Motivational speaker Vishal R. Nayak spoke on ‘Way of Thinking-Next Generation Leadership,’ on the occasion.  The Hindu and MCF have jointly organised painting and patriotic songs competitions for students up to Class X in the city limits to mark the celebrations. On Tuesday, a session introducing the freedom struggle and making of the Constitution has been organised for students of SDM College of Business Management here at 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-hindu-and-mcf-launch-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-celebrations/article36833411.ece
05 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘PM should explain Amazon’s legal fee’||All-India Congress Committee spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Amee Yajnik on Monday demanded a clarification from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Rs. 8,546-crore ‘legal fee’ paid by e-commerce giant Amazon to Indian government officials. Speaking to reporters here, Ms. Yajnik said the so-called legal fee payment has been the biggest scam of recent times and people have the right to know where the money has gone. She has already written to the Union government and the Prime Minister demanding a probe by a Supreme Court judge into the issue. When a foreign company makes such a claim, the Prime Minister should break his silence at least over his Mann Ki Baat , she said. Ms. Yajnik said while the Centre was busy selling assets created by the Congress governments in the last seven decades, marginal and small traders, micro and medium industries, and others were at the brink of closure. Over 14 crore jobs were estimated to have been lost in the last one-and-a-half years. On the other hand, the government has not come out with any bailout package for industries and traders in distress. She said no one is aware what the government would leave for people after selling all public sector undertakings to business tycoons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-should-explain-amazons-legal-fee/article36833408.ece
05 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KVGB bags two national awards||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB), sponsored by Canara Bank, has bagged two national awards (‘APY Big Believers’ and ‘Leadership capital’) for significant enrolment under the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) from the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). KVGB Chairman P. Gopi Krishna received the awards from PFRDA Chairman Supratim Bandopadhyay at Chennai on Monday said a release from the bank. Mr. Krishna said the Atal Pension Yojana is a safety net for workers in the informal sector for getting pre-defined pension after 60 years. So far, the bank has enrolled (cumulative) 2,30,432 accounts under APY. During 2020-2021, the bank has enrolled 68,961 accounts against the target of 38,160. He said that the KVGB is playing a pivotal role in implementing all the three social security schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY, and APY) launched by the Union government and the bank’s priority to ensure access to social security benefits to villagers and people from unorganised sectors continues along with other main banking activities. The bank with jurisdiction over nine district has a business turnover of Rs. 28,410 crore with a clientele base of nearly 90 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvgb-bags-two-national-awards/article36833413.ece
05 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Full-day classes for VI to II PU from today||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has granted permission for schools and colleges in the district to hold full--day classes for students of VI to II PU from Tuesday. In a notification issued on Monday, Dr. Rajendra said the decision was taken in the interest of students. All the teaching faculty of the institutions have received the vaccine and the test positivity rate continued to be below one for the last few days. The institutions have to strictly follow social distance and other COVID-19 protocols, the notification said. For over a fortnight, the schools and colleges have been holding physical classes from morning till around noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/full-day-classes-for-vi-to-ii-pu-from-today/article36833414.ece
05 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: DK reports three fatalities||Dakshina Kannada reported three deaths and 45 new cases on Monday. With 125 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 809. The test positivity rate stood at 0.6%. A fine of Rs. 1,06,93,570 has so far been collected in 88,008 cases of norm violations. Udupi district reported six new cases. While two people are in home isolation, four are in healthcare facilities. With six patients discharged, there were 103 active cases in the district. With 4,101 people vaccinated on Monday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 21,87,640.  In Udupi district, 3,781 people were vaccinated taking the total to 13,43,303.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-dk-reports-three-fatalities/article36833415.ece
05 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers condemn U.P. violence||Farmers in the district staged a demonstration against the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh and held Prime Minister Narendra Modi accountable for the developments in which eight people including four farmers, were killed on Sunday. Violence broke out during a farmers’ protest when a convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra ploughed into the farmers’ rally which allegedly left four farmers dead. In the ensuing violence, four other people were also killed. Nationwide protests were held on Monday. Badgalpura Nagendra of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha said the incident was part of a larger conspiracy to break the farmers’ movement against the farm laws that was going on peacefully for the last 10 months. “We hold Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the incident and he should apologse immediately,” said Mr. Nagendra. The violence was instigated to besmirch the fair name of the farmers who have been peacefully protesting and any effort to throttle the democratic right of staging demonstrations would be strongly resisted, he said. The U.P. government’s decision banning the visit by Opposition party leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri, was also condemned by the KRRS. The Minister of State for Home Affairs should be sacked and the PM should immediately apologise, said Mr. Nagendra. Kurubur Shanthakumar of Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association said the BJP was intoxicated with power. He warned that people would give a befitting reply to such tactics and wanted the accused responsible for the death of the farmers to be nabbed and prosecuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-condemn-up-violence/article36833217.ece
05 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cleanliness drive begins ahead of Dasara||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on Monday launched a mega cleanliness drive ahead of Dasara. The MCC deployed nearly 150 vehicles that will be operational till October 6 while additional civic workers have been roped in for the festival period. “These vehicles belong to contractors who have taken up various works of the MCC and have lent it to the corporation for three days for free. This will help clear accumulated garbage from various dumping sites and also the black spots,” said D.G. Nagaraj, Health Officer, MCC. The vehicles deployed are in addition to the civic body’s own fleet of tippers and trucks used for door-to-door collection of garbage. The vehicles provided by the contractors will be deployed to clear the main tourist spots and important commercial streets, said Dr. Nagaraj. In addition, the black spots along the Outer Ring Road will also be cleared using these machinery, he added. L. Nagendra, Chamaraja MLA, launched the drive. Mayor Sunanda Phalanethra and others were present. To ensure that the city remains clean during the festival period, the MCC has also roped in additional civic workers on contract. But as the festival has been scaled down due to the pandemic, the number of contract workers roped in for Dasara duties is also less. Earlier, the MCC would rope in an additional 250 to 300 civic workers (over and above nearly 1,500 civic workers on its payroll) and they would work in shifts. But this year the cultural programme will be restricted only to the palace premises and hence the focus will be on main roads and thoroughfares, according to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleanliness-drive-begins-ahead-of-dasara/article36833222.ece
05 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Engineering can be pursued after polytechnic: Minister||Minister for Higher Education and IT and BT C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Monday advised students wishing to pursue a career in engineering to take up polytechnic courses after completing their SSLC or Class X as the opportunities and benefits were plentiful. Speaking after inaugurating a job mela at K.R. Constituency as part of a 20-day programme marking the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said not many students are aware that they could also pursue engineering after a polytechnic course but all of them join P.U. and then take up an engineering course. Those interested in engineering as a career join P.U. after their SSLC or Class X and then later do a B.E. In fact, instead of joining P.U., such students can take up a polytechnic course as the knowledge and skills they gain in the course is immense. A lot of impetus is given to practical learning in polytechnic courses, he explained. He said nearly 70,000 students can pursue polytechnic courses in the State every year. The government spends nearly Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh on polytechnic education on each student. But, more than 40,000 seats lie vacant in most polytechnics. Polytechnic, ITI and GTTC courses covered topics like electric vehicles, electric battery and charging, machine learning, Artificial Intelligence, robotics and others, Dr. Narayan said. “In our society, there is a notion that only white collar professions are considered jobs. This is wrong as blue collar jobs (occupations with skills) are also significant and valuable and therefore the youth must be educated to hone required skills for employment,” the Minister told the gathering. Also, imparting necessary skills to the children at the school level has been stressed upon in the National Education Policy-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineering-can-be-pursued-after-polytechnic-minister/article36833223.ece
05 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders upset over tourism curbs in Kodagu||A day after the district administration partially imposed restrictions on tourists during the Dasara season starting from October 7, the stakeholders in Kodagu are unhappy and want the Deputy Commissioner to reconsider her decision on imposing curbs on the entry of visitors to key sites such as Raja Seat, General Thimmayya Memorial Museum, Gaddige (Raja’s Tomb), Madikeri Fort, and Nehru Mantap. The ban has been imposed only on these sites from October 7 to 17. The Cauvery Theerthodbhava is scheduled on October 17 and the district administration is yet to decide on allowing entry of devotees for witnessing the divine occurrence at Talacauvery, given the pandemic situation. Last year, the public was barred from witnessing the event, causing huge disappointment as it attracts tens of thousands of people, not just from Kodagu and other districts but also from other States. Former Speaker and MLA K.G. Bopaiah has convened a meeting on October 7 to take a call on the entry of devotees to Talacauvery on October 17. Stakeholders said the Deputy Commissioner’s order has been misinterpreted by many as a “total ban” on tourists to Kodagu, although only a few places in Madikeri town will actually be out of bounds. “Why is Kodagu always singled out when no such curbs are imposed in other districts, including Mysuru where the Dasara season is usually grand?” asked B.R. Nagendra Prasad, president of Kodagu Hotels, Resorts and Restaurants’ Association. He said the Cauvery Theerthodbhava is on October 17, but the ban on tourists to Raja Seat and others places has been imposed from October 7. The restrictions could have been imposed only on October 17 and not earlier, he said. Opposition However, some locals are opposing the reopening of tourism in Kodagu. Videos of the traffic jams and tourist vehicles flooding Madikeri and its surroundings are being circulated on social media platforms, accusing the authorities of not taking enough measures to control the situation when the pandemic is still not over. They fear uncontrolled tourism would escalate the situation in the district, whose hospital infrastructure is not as robust as in districts such as Mysuru and Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stakeholders-upset-over-tourism-curbs-in-kodagu/article36832922.ece
05 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Admissions to PG courses||The University of Mysore has invited applications for its postgraduate programmes offered by its research departments, postgraduate centres and constituent and affiliated colleges for 2021-22. University Registrar R .Shivappa said in a release online applications for entrance examination will be received from October 4 and a portal will be opened for the purpose. Students can check www.uompgadmissions.com for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admissions-to-pg-courses/article36833218.ece
05 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Woman goes for bath at waterfalls, dies||A 23-year-old married woman was drowned in the Dhabe Dhabe waterfalls in Nazrapur village, Gurmitkal taluk, Yadgir district, on Sunday. The police gave the name of deceased as Ishwarya, a native of Khajipur Galli in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburgi district. The incident occurred when she ventured into the waters to take a bath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-goes-for-bath-at-waterfalls-dies/article36833106.ece
05 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Woman set on fire||A man is said to have set a woman on fire after dousing her with petrol when she obstructed to his sexual advances in Chowdeshwarihal village, Surpur taluk, Yadgir district, on Sunday. The woman, who has suffered major burns, is being given medical treatment in Kalaburagi. The accused, Gangappa, is absconding. Surpur Police have registered a case under Sections 354, 323 and 307 of Indian Penal Code. They have launched a search for him. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-set-on-fire/article36833107.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Road repairs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-repairs/article36833407.ece
05 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Second crop harvest on in Kuttanad||The harvest of the second crop (additional crop) has begun in Kuttanad. Chooravady padasekharam under the Thakazhi Krishi Bhavan was the first to go under the harvester on Sunday. The harvest at Chooravady was originally scheduled to begin a week ago but got delayed due to rain. Farmers said the harvest was making slow progress with combined harvesters getting stuck on the field due to waterlogging. Meanwhile, harvesting has been delayed at the 200-acre Vadakara Edassery Varabinakam padasekharam in Edathua due to waterlogging. Ten combined harvesters brought from Tamil Nadu have not yet entered the field. The field was to go under the harvester on September 27. Farmers said that several paddy plants had already flattened and they had suffered losses. With the weather agency predicting more rain in the coming days, farmers are a worried lot as it is likely to affect the harvesting process in other parts of the region. Paddy fields such as Varikkattukari, Vandakapuram, Undhumveli are among those next in line for harvest. For speedy procurement Farmers have urged authorities to initiate steps for speedy procurement of the harvested crop. Meanwhile, farmers have started preparing fields for the upcoming ‘puncha’ season with sowing expected to begin later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-crop-harvest-on-in-kuttanad/article36833192.ece
05 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Need to acclaim Annie Besant for her work, says expert||The Sanatana Dharma Vidyasala and the Department of History and Political Science, Sanatana Dharma College, Alappuzha, jointly organised a commemoration lecture on ‘The Role of Dr. Annie Besant in Indian Freedom Struggle’ in connection with her 174th birth anniversary on October 3. The lecture was part of the webinar series ‘Freedom Corridor-Azadi ka Amrit Maholsav’. It was inaugurated by A. Sivasubramanian, management committee member Sanatana Dharma Vidyasala. Glorious services Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sivasubramanian said that Annie Besant had not received the deserved acclaim for her glorious services in various fields. Her contributions to the Indian national movement and to the socio-cultural fields were not much known among people. He also said it was high time a dedicated chair in the name of Dr. Annie Besant was instituted in the University of Kerala. SD College Principal P.R. Unnikrishna Pillai presided. S Sivadas, president, Annapoorni Theosophical Society, Alappuzha, K. Dinakaran, secretary, Kerala Theosophical Federation and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-to-acclaim-annie-besant-for-her-work-says-expert/article36833177.ece
05 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Art workshops for college students||Lokame Tharavadu, a contemporary art exhibition organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation with the support of the State government, will conduct art workshops for college students. A four-day camp for the BA Visual Arts students of St. Joseph College of Communication will begin on Tuesday. A workshop on origami led by Anto George, one of the artists in Lokame Tharavadu, will be held on October 7. An analogue photography workshop for the MA students of the college will be held on October 9. It will be led by photographer Anu John David. Lokame Tharavadu curator Bose Krishnamachari will interact with the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-workshops-for-college-students/article36833176.ece
05 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rules in place as colleges in Alappuzha reopen||After a gap of more than 18 months, higher education institutions in the district reopened on Monday. Only postgraduate and final-year undergraduate students were allowed on the college campuses on the first day. The Health Department has launched an awareness campaign to ensure colleges in Alappuzha function adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Prevention messages Pamphlets with COVID-19 prevention messages were distributed to students and teachers. It was inaugurated by District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari by handing over a pamphlet to St. Joseph’s College, Alappuzha, Principal Rita Latha D’couto. Besides, the department also installed boards with COVID-19 prevention messages on colleges. District Mass Media officer P.S. Suja, and Deputy Mass Media Officers Chitra and Arunlal, and others attended the function. Colleges in the State have been conducting classes online for over a year due to the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rules-in-place-as-colleges-in-alappuzha-reopen/article36833178.ece
05 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Hurdles remain, but students upbeat||In Idukki district, the mood was upbeat when students met their peers after a long gap following the commencement of classes for final-year degree and postgraduate courses on Monday. Aneesh, a degree student at JPM Arts and Science College, Labbakkada, Idukki, said he felt happy that “the uncertainty has now been cleared.” He had been worried about the uncertainty regarding the reopening of colleges. Fr. Tony Adukuzhiyil, manager of the college, said classes were started as per the guidelines issued by Mahatma Gandhi University. There was over 70% attendance, but many students complained about the shortage of bus services. However, they were happy that the classes had started. The practical lessons could be held more effectively now, he said. According to him, as per the direction of the government, other classes would begin on October 18. However, many students in the pre-degree level would turn 18 only by January next year and have not been included in the mass vaccination drive, he added. “Since the final-year classes started, many parents have enquired when the other classes too would commence. Those students who felt were under stress have been intimated about approaching the councillors at the college,” he said. Barring a few, several government, aided and unaided colleges were opened for final-year classes. Meanwhile, due to the demise of a staff due to COVID-19, the Munnar Engineering College was not opened on Monday. The college principal said the final-year classes would commence on Tuesday. Protocol adherence At the Government Arts and Science College, Kattappana, the classes were not started on Monday the college has been functioning as a domiciliary care centre. The college principal said classes would begin from Wednesday after sanitisation. Students were allowed entry into the campuses in the district after temperature checks and verification of vaccination certificates as per the protocol. According to the head of departments in many colleges, several students complained of poor transportation facilities, especially in the high ranges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hurdles-remain-but-students-upbeat/article36833170.ece
05 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Boy’s killing: police collect evidence||The police on Monday collected evidence from the spot and recovered the weapons allegedly used for killing a seven-year- old boy and seriously injuring his mother and grandmother at Anachal here on Sunday. The police brought to be crime spot the accused, Muhammed Shan, 43, who was arrested on Sunday night. He is charged with murdering Abdul Fathah Reihan, the son of his live-in partner’s sister Safia. According to Idukki Dy.SP Immanuel Paul, the accused first attacked Safia and the boy, then went to the house of Safia’s mother, Sainaba, 73, and assaulted her. Attacked girl He also attacked Safia’s 15-year-old daughter at Sainaba’s house. It is suspected that the accused sexually abused the girl in a nearby shed. A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) case has been registered against him. The girl managed to escape and informed local people. Recently, Shan’s partner Shaila had left him for which he blamed her mother and sister, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boys-killing-police-collect-evidence/article36833182.ece
05 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Classes resume in Wayanad colleges||When the offline classes for college students in the State resumed on Monday, most of the colleges in the district recorded 100% attendance of students. The students, who have been studying in postgraduate and final-year undergraduate courses, were in a jubilant mood as they met their classmates on the campus premises after a long interval. “We never thought that we could meet again in physical class rooms owing to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic,” S. Athulya , a second year M.Com student of the NMSM College here, said. The students were allowed into colleges after checking for temperature and providing them sanitizers at the entrances. The classes for postgraduate students will continue as usual, but the classes for undergraduate students have been arranged on alternate days, Shaji Thadevus, Principal, NMSM College, said. All students in final undergraduate and postgraduate courses attended classes on Monday, said John Mathai, Principal of St. Mary’s College at Sulthan Bathery, the first higher education institution in the district, said. Two students were permitted to sit on a bench and classes were arranged in seminar halls to accommodate students adhering the COVID-19 protocol. Strict instructions were given to all students to adhere to the COVID protocol by avoiding gatherings in open spaces and at the time of lunch, Dr. Mathai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/classes-resume-in-wayanad-colleges/article36833136.ece
05 October 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Wayanad elephant feast marks Wildlife Week||Officials of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary on Monday organised a feast for elephants at the Muthanga elephant camp to mark the Wildlife Week celebrations. The officials fed 11 elephants of the camp. The elephants were given coconut, sugar cane, maize, papaya, pineapple, apple, bananas and cucumber, apart from their daily ration of wheat and ragi with jaggery, on the occasion. Senior officials of the department, including Chief Conservator of Forest (wildlife), northern region, K.V. Uthaman and Warden S. Narendra Babu, attended the programme. Roopesh, Range Forest Officer, Muthanga elephant camp, supervised the programme. A painting camp titled ‘Big canvas’ will be organised at Swathantra Maidan at Sulthan Bathery on Tuesday. A slogan competition for tourists will be held at the ecotourism centre at Tholpetty from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thursday and a 14-km walkathon titled ‘ Vanayanam’ will be held from Sulthan Bathery to Muthanga at 8 a.m. on Friday as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-feast-marks-wildlife-week-celebrations/article36833128.ece
05 October 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Rahul seeks Minister’s intervention for project||Rahul Gandhi, MP, has sought the intervention of Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for the proposed Nanjangud–Nilambur railway project. In a letter to the Minister on Monday, Mr. Gandhi said that the project was a long-standing dream of the public in his constituency, Wayanad, and it was the need of the hour for the overall development of the backward region. Mr. Gandhi said he had also raised the issue in the Parliament a few months ago. As a well-developed railway infrastructure is critical to revitalise the local economy, steps needed to be expedited to materialise the project, Mr. Gandhi said. “The COVID pandemic led to the cancellation of several passenger trains on the Nilambur-Shoranur railway line,” Mr. Gandhi said adding that it had adversely affected the public, especially those seeking medical treatment in nearby towns. The termination of Nilambur-Kochuveli express at Kochuveli has also severely inconvenienced passengers. As a region with immense untapped tourism potential, several stakeholders have sought tourist coaches, he said. Freight transportation In order to strengthen livelihood opportunities for local residents, there is also a demand for freight transportation services on the Nilambur route, Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-intervention-sought-for-railway-project/article36833129.ece
05 October 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Woman killed in ceiling collapse in Kannur||Vasantha, a 60-year-old resident of Podikundu, died when the ceiling of her house collapsed and fell on her in Kannur on Monday. Her son Shibu suffered injuries. The wooden ceiling and beam of the house, concrete and objects, including bed and cupboards, fell on the woman who was sleeping at the time. Her son Shibu, who was sleeping upstairs, also fell on the debris. Shibu was rescued by the police and firefighters and was immediately rushed to the hospital by locals. He sustained a head injury. 50-year-old beam The wooden beam of the ceiling in the house was more than 50 years old. Vasantha’s husband and another son were at home while two other children were in a relative’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-killed-in-ceiling-collapse-in-kannur/article36833126.ece
05 October 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Demand to strengthen Rapid Response Team in Kasaragod||In the wake of increasing wild elephant menace in the forest areas of Kasaragod, demand is rife for strengthening the Rapid Response Team (RRT) which has been struggling due to staff shortage. In a recent operation, the Karadka block panchayat had to come up with special task forces, which included local people, in association with the Forest Department to chase away elephants. Besides tackling elephant menace, the RRT also attends to rescue calls coming from across the district. Though the RRT should have at least a deputy ranger, three foresters, four forest guards, six watchers, and two drivers, the team is now forced to work with just three foresters, two watchers, and a driver. ‘Ill-equipped’ “There is hardly any time to rest and the team has to be always prepared to attend to rescue calls,” said forester M.P. Raju, who has been part of the RRT for the past two years. “We just have a handful of crackers and a torch for chasing away marauding elephants. We are totally ill-equipped,” he said. The team was unable to use crackers now because of rain, he added. Elephant herds enter the forests here from Karnataka. People have homes and crop cultivation on private land along the 23-km forest between Kasaragod and Kanhangad range. “When we chase away an elephant into the forest from one private area, they end up entering another private land on the other side of the forest,” he said. People call for help from two different places at the same time, says Jayakumar, another forester in the RRT. “How can we go for rescue operations at several places with such a small team and chase away elephants. Now, our operations begin at night and go on through the day, without rest and food,” he said. Tackling wild pig and gaur attacks and rescuing snakes from houses are also part of their duty. Kasaragod Forest Ranger T. Soloman Thomas George said that there was a need for sufficient staff and vehicles as the amount of work was taking a toll on the staff. Most of the issues are at Bandadka and Karadka sections near the Karnataka forest. The trenches and hanging fences along one kilometre at Puliparamba have helped prevent the entry of elephants to some extent. However, an alert RRT is needed to chase away elephants from private land.  He said the issue has been raised before the Forest Minister who has promised to increase the staff strength in the RRT and also provide more facilities to the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-strengthen-rapid-response-team-in-kasaragod/article36833125.ece
05 October 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||CUK launches Kalpa Ganga Yojana||With an aim to protect native varieties of coconuts, the Central University of Kerala has launched Kalpa Ganga Yojana. The project was inaugurated by Suresh Gopi, MP, who is also a Coconut Development Board member. As part of the project, unique coconut varieties of Kerala will be planted on the university premises. Inaugurating the event, the MP pointed out that coconut conservation would help revive the economy of Kerala. He also requested the support of the student and teacher community for the Smriti Keram coconut tree planting project. In his welcome address, Vice Chancellor Prof. H. Venkateshwarlu said that the Central University of Kerala was expanding its activities beyond the walls of the varsity. Apart from academic activities, the university was also focussing on other areas that were beneficial to Kasaragod and Kerala. Rajendra Pilankatta, Registrar-in-Charge, delivered the vote of thanks. The Kalpa Ganga Yojana is being implemented under the leadership of the Campus Development Committee and the Cultivation Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-launches-kalpa-ganga-yojana/article36833123.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call for support mechanism for transgender community||The alleged suicide by two transwomen in Ernakulam in a little over two months has brought into focus the absence of a mechanism for emotional support for a vulnerable community. Anannyah Kumari Alex, 28, Kerala’s first transwoman jockey, was found hanging in her apartment at Edappally on July 20. Two days later, her partner Jiju Raj was found dead in similar circumstances at his friend’s home. Sradha, 22, was the latest to be found hanging in a rented apartment at Ponekkara near Elamakkara in the early hours of September 29. Though Anannyah’s death was initially attributed to the complexities of a botched-up sex reassignment surgery, even a section of the community feels it was probably relationship-related. “The absence of support from a family is indeed an issue for the community members. Also, their relationships are marked by confusion and complexities, making it even more difficult for them to cope with their highs and lows. Besides, relationships of transpeople are scoffed at by an insensitive society. We come across reports of suicides for even failure in exams, whereas young transpeople face much graver challenges,” said Sheethal Shyam, a member of the Transgender Justice Board. Surya Ishaan, another member of the board, observed that there was failure on the part of the government in making available proper counselling and hormone therapy for the community. “The absence of community-based organisations also means that the community members in distress do not have a space to approach, in which case they would have managed to better cope with their problems,” said Surya. Sruthy Sithara, a transwoman and actor, said there was a need for awareness within the community about handling the complexities of relationships. Setting up helpline Psychiatrist C.J. John said that it was high time a helpline was put in place for the transgender community for sustained emotional support going beyond immediate crises. “Being a marginalised community, they are more vulnerable to emotional distresses like depression and anxiety and find it harder to cope with estranged relations,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-support-mechanism-for-transgender-community/article36833372.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Final-year UG, PG classes begin on a cautious note||Ensuring physical distancing and other pandemic protocols will be the key challenge in the coming days as offline classes for final year undergraduate and postgraduate programmes resumed after a long break here on Monday. An atmosphere of cautious optimism was evident across campuses in Ernakulam district in view of the restrictions prescribed by the government. Students wearing masks were welcomed by security guards at the entry gate, who recorded their body temperature using infrared thermometers. A help desk comprising student volunteers and faculty members coordinated the entry of students into the campus. Hand sanitisers were kept at entry points. The initial feedback from faculty members showed that the first day of reopening went off smoothly even though they had to repeatedly remind the students of the need to ensure physical distancing and follow norms. Maharaja’s College Principal Mathew George said about 85% of the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students were present on the campus. “The disinfection of rooms and other facilities on the campus was carried out before reopening. The staff members of the college and Kudumbashree workers had participated in the cleaning work,” he said. St. Teresa’s College Principal Lizzy Mathew said fumigation of all the three blocks on the campus was carried out ahead of the reopening. “We had also received the undertaking from parents agreeing that the students will comply with physical distancing and other protocols recommended by the authorities,” she said. College managements permitted students, who did not turn up on campus, to stay back at their homes. But they were told to provide the reason for absence to the heads of departments or the faculty members concerned. Hostel wardens have been told to ensure stringent physical distancing in rooms and hostel premises. There should be quarantine facility for those showing any symptoms. The college authorities have to update the vaccine status of students and ensure that they have received at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-year-ug-pg-classes-begin-on-a-cautious-note/article36833390.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cheating case: MVD awaiting papers on Monson’s ‘luxury’ cars||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) is awaiting documents pertaining to eight “luxury” cars found at the rented house of alleged conman Monson Mavunkal in Kochi to help the Crime Branch team, investigating the cheating charges against him, finalise their probe report. Illegal alterations The MVD findings will be crucial in taking the probe ahead. Personnel from the department’s enforcement wing and the Ernakulam RTO office (in its capacity as the registering authority) who inspected the vehicles expressed doubts about the veracity of the registration numbers of many of the cars and found prima facie proof of unauthorised alterations, it is learnt. Among the fleet was a car which was much like a vehicle from the Porsche stable, which also bore the premium car’s logo. But its registration number was that of a Mitsubishi Cedia. “We have demanded documents pertaining to the car and its key, to identify its chassis and engine number. This will help establish its make and value,” said an official who is part of the MVD probe team. Yet another high-end car was a red Ferrari, reportedly designed by Dilip Chhabria, celebrity car designer and manufacturer who was arrested earlier this year on charges of cheating and forgery. The car was yet to be formally registered, probably since it did not adhere to specifications approved by the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI). The car did not seem to be in running condition and was probably used for photo shoots. A few other cars parked on Mavunkal’s premises too were not in running condition. Among those that were operable were a Dodge that bore a Haryana registration number and a Lexus. Payment of taxes All the cars could be operated outside the private compound only if there were proper documents and mandatory taxes and fees were paid, said MVD sources. The ongoing probe will also verify whether any of the cars were discarded ones and their registration certificates surrendered for being scrapped. All cars, including those registered in Pondicherry (where road tax is just 1.50% of the car value), ought to have been registered in Kerala (where up to 20% of a car’s invoice rate is levied as tax) within a year of their being brought to the State, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-awaiting-documents-on-monsons-cars/article36833179.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Thrikkakara council passes resolution for setting up KV||The Thrikkakara Municipal Council has passed a resolution to begin the preliminary work for establishing a Kendriya Vidyalaya within the municipal area after the Union government gave the green signal for a Kendriya Vidyalaya in the State in 2019. The standing committee for education chairman Noushad Pallechi said on Monday that there was sufficient land available for establishing the Kendriya Vidyalaya within the municipal area. A meeting of the standing committee has decided to pursue the project in earnest, he added. While the council has begun preliminary action already, the members will meet District Collector Jaffar Malik soon to discuss the issues involved. Mr. Pallechi also said that the Collector had a crucial role in getting the project through. The municipal authorities were ready to allow the Central school to function with admissions to Classes I to IV in the existing municipal school facility. However, the State government decision will be crucial as all the schools have now been taken over by the State government. The first step towards establishing the Kendriya Vidyalaya involved identifying five acres for the buildings and related facilities for the school. Such an extent of government land was available and it would be up to the State government to give the green signal for land allotment, he said. Meanwhile, the district unit of the BJP has demanded that immediate steps should be taken to establish the Kendriya Vidyalaya allotted for the State in Kakkanad. District vice-president of the party, S. Saji, said that there was anxiety whether the project could be lost because of the failure of the district administration and the municipal authorities to find a suitable piece of land. Mr. Saji, along with Thrikkakara mandalam general secretary M.S. Ajayakumr, has submitted a letter to the Collector on the issue. Residents’ demand The Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations has demanded that the district administration should take steps to realise the Kendirya Vidyalaya project. In a statement issued here, the association chairman V. P. Prasad said that while the Union government had given the green signal for 50 Kendriya Vidyalayas across the country in 2019, the proposal for Kakkanad had not seen any progress. According to the association, sufficient land was available on the outskirts of Kakkanad with the public sector Traco Cable company as well as close to the refinery of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation. The association appealed to P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries, to intervene and do the needful to speed up the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-council-passes-resolution-for-setting-up-kv/article36833387.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police should understand constitutional obligations: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday observed that some police officers still did not appear to understand their constitutional obligations while dealing with the citizenry. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation when a writ petition by Shyni Santhosh and her husband Santhosh Kumar alleging harassment by the Kochi City police, including Thevara Station House Officer, came up for hearing. ‘Threatened’ According to the petition, when the petitioners visited Thevara police station for filing a complaint, they were threatened and abusive language was hurled at them. In a report filed before the court, the police said action was being taken against the erring police officer. The police had no right to use threatening and objectionable language and summon the petitioners to the police station in the guise of inquiry into another complaint preferred by Mr. Kumar before the Union Public Service Commission against retired Superintendent of Police  N. Abdul Rasheed, whose name was considered for conferring Indian Police Service (IPS), stated the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-should-understand-constitutional-obligations-hc/article36833375.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No major releases when cinemas reopen on Oct. 25||The Malayalam film industry is likely to have a muted start despite the State government nod to open cinemas from October 25 onwards. There would be no major release in the initial week as producers of big budget movies have deferred their plans in view of the conditions prescribed by the government for reopening. Cinemas can resume screening with 50% occupancy. Moviegoers should take two doses of vaccine. Actor Mohanlal’s Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham and Aarattu are among the major films to have a delayed release, as the producers are not sure whether fans would rush to the movie halls in the initial weeks. “It would not be viable to release a movie like Marakkar:Arabikadalinte Simham with 50% capacity. There will be no clarity on the box-office returns if we release a big budget movie in the first week,” said M. Renjith, president of the Kerala Film Producers’ Association. On an earlier agreement to have an exclusive run for Marakkar in over 600 cinemas in the State to bring back the audience to the theatres, Mr. Renjith said such a proposal was considered as a festival release during Onam. K. Vijayakumar, president, Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK), blamed actors such as Mohanlal and Prithviraj for not supporting theatre owners at this crucial juncture by deciding to release their works such as Bro Daddy and Bhramam on the OTT (over the top) platform. Loss of big-budget films G. Sureshkumar, president of the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, rejected Mr. Vijayakumar’s position saying that the producer of a big budget movie like Marakkar has already incurred heavy losses by not releaseing it in theatres for more than a year. “They are going for an OTT release to compensate for this loss,” he said. The trade bodies have urged the government to consider its requests like a waiver on fixed electricity charges and scrapping entertainment tax on tickets before reopening theatres.  Moviegoers should take two doses of COVID-19 vaccine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-major-releases-when-cinemas-reopen-on-oct-25/article36833210.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Honour for haemophilia centre||The Haemophilia Treatment Centre at the Government District Hospital in Aluva and the Newcastle Haemophilia Treatment Centre have won the Twins of the Year award instituted by the World Federation of Haemophilia. The award has been given in recognition of the joint programmes for improving haemophilia treatment and care of patients through collaboration. The federation stated that the two organisations were able to improve the effectiveness of their laboratory, physiotherapy, and home treatment services. The institutions were also successful in publishing robust data on clinical outcomes and quality of life. The two centres could also increase their visibility through the twinning efforts. An official release issued here said the twinning centres had the possibility of receiving aid from the federation that included annual funding and additional help for executing projects. The centre at Aluva has state-of-the-art lab and physiotherapy centre that provide access to multidisciplinary healthcare professionals including haematologists, orthopaedists, physical therapists, dental surgeons, paediatricians, counsellors, social workers and mental health professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-haemophilia-centre/article36833386.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE council to form school reopening model||The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala will organise zone-wise meetings of managers and principals across the State between October 6 and 9 to formulate a School Support Document aimed at developing a successful school reopening model and to minimise the risk of disease transmission. Those who would like to participate in the meetings need to register athttps://forms.gle/ VXATrDN5awE1VHaT9before 12 noon on Tuesday, according to a release issued by the council here. The council will soon hold training sessions on the new exam pattern for Class 10 and 12 term exams in November. It will also train teachers on friendly modes of transaction and pedagogy before offline classes begin. Awareness sessions on health, hygiene and safety guidelines will be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-schools-to-form-model-for-reopening/article36833130.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive for transport allowance||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Director General, Central Industrial Security Force, to grant CISF personnel posted at the Cochin Port Trust transport allowance for travelling from their places of residence to the unit armoury before the commencement of duty and after duty hours to return from the unit to their place of residence. The court declared that the petitioners numbering 104 were entitled to transport allowances as stipulated in the office memorandum. Counsel for petitioners, T. Sanjay, argued that the earlier order disallowing transport allowance to employees provided with official accommodation within one kilometre of their office was withdrawn following the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. Though official accommodation was provided within one kilometre from the office or within a campus housing the place of work and residence, they were entitled to transportation allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-for-transport-allowance/article36833374.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Awareness campaigns to be launched||District Collector Jafar Malik has said that campaigns will be launched at different levels to create awareness so that transgender persons receive care and attention at government offices and private and government hospitals. Instructions have been issued to government departments and the police to draw up awareness campaigns. The Transgender Justice Board under the District Collector has issued instructions to make the services of the police nodal officer available for taking up complaints submitted by transgender persons. Special counselling programmes would also be conducted, said a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-campaigns-to-be-launched/article36833377.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||20 complaints settled at panel adalat||Young women resisting domestic violence and seeking legal recourse if needed was a welcome development, Chintha Jerome, Chairperson of the Kerala State Youth Commission, said. She was speaking at an adalat organised by the commission on Monday, where 20 of the 31 complaints were solved. The rest were forwarded for further action. Such adalats would be held in other parts of Kerala shortly, she said. Complaints can be mailed to keralayouthcommission@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-complaints-settled-at-panel-adalat/article36833379.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA Kochi gets woman president after 37 years||Dr. Maria Varghese and Dr. Anitha Thilakan have been elected president and secretary respectively of the Kochi chapter of the Indian Medical Association for 2021-22. The Kochi branch is getting a woman president after a gap of 37 years. It is also the first time that the organisation is having women as president and secretary, according to a release issued here. Dr. George Thukalan is the new treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-kochi-gets-woman-president-after-37-years/article36833384.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Puttingal tragedy: govt. proposes special court||The State government on Monday informed the High Court that its request for constituting a special court to try the case relating to the 2016 Puttingal fireworks accident in Kollam is still pending before the court. In a report filed before the court, the government said it had proposed to constitute a special court considering the gravity of the case and had given a representation to the High Court in this regard. The court was informed that a final report had been filed before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Paravur, by the investigation officer on October 19, 2020. The report was filed in a suo motu case initiated by the High Court. The fire accident in 2016 claimed 110 lives and injured 300 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puttingal-tragedy-govt-proposes-special-court/article36833196.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Stone laid for Naval detachment in Lakshadweep||The foundation stone was laid on Monday for a Naval detachment at Bitra island in Lakshadweep by Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command. He unveiled the foundation stone, while Sapana Chawla, President of the Navy Wives’ Welfare Association (Sothern Region) laid the foundation brick for its construction. At the construction site, the Admiral interacted with personnel of the Military Engineering Services and the local populace. He will inaugurate NCN Satellite Data Centre in Kavarati on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-naval-detachment-in-lakshadweep/article36833378.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hashish oil case associate held||The Narcotics Control Bureau, Cochin Sub Zone, which had seized 3.5 kg of hashish oil destined for Bahrain from a courier consignment here on September 12, arrested an associate of the sender from Kasaragod on Monday. The sender was identified and arrested on September 29, from Bengaluru. The NCB had also seized 11.6 kg of pseudoehedrine that was intended to be sent by courier to Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hashish-oil-case-associate-held/article36833380.ece
05 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC seeks Collector’s response in contempt case||The Kerala High Court has sought the response of Malappuram District Collector,V.R. Premkumar, and E.P. Balakrishnan, Executive Engineer, Minor Irrigation, in response to a contempt of court petition filed against them for not complying with a court directive to demolish the check dam illegally constructed in the property of Nilambur MLA P.V. Anwar’s father-in-law. The court issued the order when a contempt petition filed by M.P. Vinod came up for hearing. The petitioner pointed out that despite the directive, the check dam had not been demolished as yet. The accumulation of water in the dam still posed a risk for those living nearby. The inaction on the part of the Collector and the Executive Engineer was per se contempt, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-collectors-response-in-contempt-case/article36833124.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IFS conferred on six officers||Six Forest officers of Kerala were promoted and appointed as officers of the Indian Forest Service (IFS) by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. S. Vinod, Wildlife Warden, Silent Valley National Park; N. Rajesh, Divisional Forest Officer, Kottayam; A. Shanavas, Divisional Forest Officer, Punalur; Anil Antony, Divisional Forest Officer, Thiruvananthapuram; S. Jayasankar, Divisional Forest Officer, Thrissur; and Raju K. Francis, Divisional Forest Officer, Munnar; were the officers who were promoted. They were also allotted the Kerala cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ifs-conferred-on-six-officers/article36833376.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||G.O. issued for acquisition of land for GIFT City||A gazette notification has been issued by the State government for acquiring around 144 hectares in Ayyampuzha panchayat in Aluva taluk of Ernakulam district for the proposed Global Industrial Financial and Trade City (GIFT City). Deputy Collector (land acquisition), and a special tehsildar have been put in charge of the land acquisition process. Rules governing land acquisition notified in 2013 will be applicable for the GIFT City land acquisition, said a communication here. The gazette notification has the list of lands to be acquired for the project, which is part of the Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor. The communication said that any complaint on the land acquisition could be submitted to the special tehsildar for land acquisition within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/go-issued-for-acquisition-of-land-for-gift-city/article36833381.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water supply to be affected||The supply of drinking water will be regulated from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 6 in areas near Naval Base, Cochin Shipyard, Perumanoor, Thevara, Vathuruthi, Panampilly Nagar, K.P. Vallon Road, Divya Nagar, Kasturba Nagar, Priyadharshani Nagar, Bund Road, and Chilavannoor Road due to repair works at the Perumanoor Pump Hose, according to a communication from the Kerala Water Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-be-affected/article36833385.ece
05 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||920 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 920 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. A total of 889 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 23 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 7.6%. The regions where the number of positive cases was higher than 30 included Njarakkal (56), Thrikkakara (43), Elankunnapuzha (36), and Pallipuram (34).  As many as 20,277 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/920-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36833388.ece
05 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||591 test positive in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the district, although at a lower rate, with 591 persons testing positive for the disease on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 578 persons, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. With 66 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases in the district, followed by Panachikkad, which recorded 31 cases. As many as 1,094 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,993. Meanwhile, 53,967 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 499 in Pathanamthitta A total of 499 persons tested positive for the disease in the district on the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases is yet to be ascertained. With 48 cases , Vechoochira reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla, which reported 46 cases. The disease also claimed five lives in the district. With 808 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 6,464.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/591-test-positive-in-kottayam/article36833186.ece
05 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||85-year-old man hacks wife to death||An 85-year-old man from Uzhavoor allegedly hacked his 82-year-old wife to death and later attempted suicide by jumping into a well. The incident took place in the early hours of Monday when the accused, identified as Ramankutty of Chettukulam, hacked his wife Bharati to death. Following an alert raised by the victim’s daughter-in-law, local residents rushed to the spot and rescued the old man from the well. He was admitted to a hospital. By the time a police team reached the spot, the woman had succumbed to her injuries. The police, which collected the statement of the accused, said the person had been unable to recount the circumstances that led to the murder. They had been residing with their son’s family and the exact reasons for the crime were yet to be ascertained. “The family appears clueless about the intention behind murdering the woman who had been ailing for a while,” said an official.  (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/85-year-old-man-hacks-wife-to-death-attempts-suicide/article36833171.ece
05 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||School sitting on a powder keg||A rural school in Kozhikode’s Kattullamala village is facing a huge safety threat from unregulated explosions in a nearby granite quarry. The newly constructed building of Nirmala AUP School in Kayanna panchayat has already developed several cracks on its walls making it tough for the school authorities to even secure the operational permit from the local panchayat. Since 2018, students here have been going through a harrowing experience because of the alleged apathy of Revenue and Geology departments in looking into their safety concerns. There are 150 students at the school now who are getting ready for the formal reopening of the institution on November 1. Along with the school, there are nearly 40 houses in the area which have been suffering the impact of frequent explosions. According to local residents, the quarry owners, who managed to secure clearance for their commercial operation, are least bothered about addressing local grievances. “Though there is an action committee which is actively involved in field-level protests, it is yet to evoke any favourable action from the district-level authorities. We cannot let our students remain in a scary environment,” says a teacher from the school who has already knocked at several doors for a speedy intervention. Parents-Teachers Association leaders from the school say they have been waiting for a favourable action from the District Collector who can easily visit the location and verify the authenticity of the complaints. “If the quarry is continuing its operations, we will be forced to shift our children from here and it will surely lead to the closure of this institution with 60 years’ history in this remote village,” they add. Meanwhile, Revenue Department sources say the complaints related to unregulated explosions in the area by various action committees and local residents are currently under the consideration of government panels. Fresh inspections will be conducted at the quarrying site in the wake of the complaints related to students’ safety, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-sitting-on-a-powder-keg/article36833122.ece
05 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation gears up for reopening of schools||The Education Standing Committee of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is in a race against time, with schools reopening on November 1. The Committee, chaired by Rekha.C, the youngest standing committee chairperson of the Corporation, has several apprehensions and hurdles before it, to equip schools in the city for the D-Day. Schools, which remained closed for around two years, need thorough repair and cleaning before they can accommodate students. Councillor N.C. Moyinkutty had recently pointed out in a council meeting that it was not just broken benches and desks, but schools required a lot more infrastructural changes. School buses that had been out of service for two years may have rusted and may have damaged batteries, he pointed out. On the other hand, the ‘Praveshanotsavam’ may have to be held for second standard students as well, along with first standard students. This is because second standard students are also coming to the school for the first time as they had completed a whole academic year online. However, many parents do not want to send their wards to school for the fear of the pandemic. “It is not just troll material. There are actually chances of little children, especially ones in the lower primary classes, exchanging their masks. They do not know how dangerous it is,” said Ms. Rekha, getting ready for a mass cleaning drive at the schools from October 8 onwards. A meeting of officials concerned and trade unions convened by the Mayor is to be held on Tuesday to discuss the requirements for school reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corporation-gears-up-for-reopening-of-schools/article36833134.ece
05 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Monson fabricated antiquities for govt., says Surendran||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has alleged that Monson Mavungal, the accused in the case of fraudulent sale of antiquities, had worked on behalf of the State government to destroy Sabarimala temple. At a news conference here, Mr. Surendran said that Monson had fabricated antiquities and documents for the government to destroy the faith of a section of people. A thorough investigation into the fake copper plate inscriptions was necessary as the government had intervened in the issue. It was no small matter that he had teamed up with the media to foment communal trouble and caste strife in society, Mr. Surendran said. He said that the CPI(M) leadership should also clarify why the party organ had campaigned using the copperplate document against believers. There could be a big conspiracy behind this, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monson-fabricated-antiquities-for-govt-says-surendran/article36833131.ece
05 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||2 migrants die after falling into well||Two workers were killed when they fell into a well from the top of a building under construction at Sreekrishnapuram near here on Monday evening. The victims were identified as Shamal Burman (25) and Nitu Biswas (36). Both hailed from Putimari in West Bengal. The accident took place when a wooden plank they were standing on crashed, plunging them into the well, which had water up to the half mark. The bodies were recovered by the Fire and Rescue personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-migrants-die-after-falling-into-well/article36833255.ece
05 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Safety of Sabarimala pilgrimage assessed||In view of the upcoming Mandalam-Makaravilakku season in Sabarimala, a team led by Pathanamathitta District Collector Divya S. Iyer on Monday took out a trip to evaluate the safety aspects of the annual pilgrimage. The team, which also comprised Ranni legislator Pramod Narayan and officials of the District Disaster Management Authority, visited locations, including the Pathanamthitta KSRTC bus stand, the transit camp of pilgrims in the Pathanamthitta municipal corporation limits, Laha Satram, Nilackal base camp, and the Njunagar bridge. Speaking on the occasion, the Collector said arrangements would be made in a time-bound manner to ensure a smooth pilgrimage season this year. Follow-up action will be taken immediately on the issues identified during the trip while further actions would be based on the government orders regarding the COVID-19 protocol for the pilgrimage. According to Pramod Narayan, MLA, priority will be accorded to the safety of pilgrims in areas including riverbanks. Adequate facilities for pilgrims at the transit camps including toilets and drinking water too will be ensured. Warning signs “Warning boards will be erected at locations where there are chances of encountering wild elephants and at sharp curves. The hospital facilities at Nilackal will be upgraded and special COVID-19 kiosks will be set up. Facilities for accommodating employees too will be ensured,” said Mr. Narayan. Assistant Collector Sandeep Kumar and Disaster Management Division Deputy Collector T.G. Gopakumar were among those present during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/team-assesses-safety-aspects-of-sabarimala-pilgrimage/article36833184.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||They seek to reclaim their campus life||Like countless other students, the first year of college was a cherished experience for Maria Tharakan, Ekta Benny, and Thahira Rahman, students of Government College for Women, Vazhuthacaud. After one year of online classes, the BSc Psychology students returned to campus on Monday hoping to reclaim some of that joy and camaraderie in what is left of their final year of undergraduate studies. First-time ever The classmates admit it feels as if they are setting foot on campus for the first time ever. “We are very glad to see our friends and teachers. Also, offline classes where we learn in-person are more effective, and this being the final year, the months ahead are very crucial for us,” says Maria. Sitting next to a friend has become something to worry about owing to COVID-19, and this has been very difficult to process for students. However, they need to get accustomed to a new mode of friendship over the next few months, says Ekta. Thahira feels following protocols will be tough, especially as the girls are thrilled to meet their friends face to face. While ostensibly the pandemic has put paid to physical contact, sanitisers will allow them some leeway. The days ahead will likely be different in terms of academics too. The Psychology practicals usually require them to bring in human subjects for evaluation but as per COVID-19 protocols, students had been required to make predictions during examinations rather than conduct experiments on human subjects. “We do not know how the exams will be conducted now,” they say. But more worrying, they say, is the unpredictability of examinations and juggling multiple semesters simultaneously. “That has been really stressful for students. With friends around, one does not fully realise the stress, but with everyone isolated in their rooms away from college, they end up overthinking and feeling very out of sorts,” says Ekta. Colleges are required to appoint counsellors, but many students do not know about them or feel hesitant about reaching out to them. That needs to be normalised, says Maria. As Psychology students, they understand when their friends are going through a hard time, but as students they have constraints in providing help. “We cannot push them to seek help; they have to be willing to ask for it. That is where the challenge lies. Creating awareness online, offline will help,” they say. Study hard As far as events and celebrations on campus go, the girls intend to study hard but also make the most of the remaining months to have a blast. “The first semester is when we really had fun. We have missed many experiences since then. Now, we have one semester left and the examinations will be upon us soon, but we should mingle and get back on track,” says Thahira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/they-seek-to-reclaim-their-campus-life/article36833421.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Talks to end BJP’s protest inconclusive||The conciliatory talks convened by Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Monday to resolve the ongoing protests by the Opposition BJP regarding revenue collection issues remained inconclusive with the BJP claiming that the talks had failed and the Mayor saying that the steering committee had already taken much of the steps that the BJP has been demanding. Speaking at a press conference on Monday evening, Ms.Rajendran said that the steering committee has decided to publish the ward-wise list of those who have not paid building taxes to allay the fears of the public. The Secretary has been given the responsibility of sorting out the issues faced by those whose tax payments have not been recorded, if any such cases exist. She said that fake messages are being circulated asking the public to come directly to the Corporation office to check whether their tax payments have been recorded, after reports of fund misappropriation by some officials at the zonal offices. "No money has been lost from the money collected from the public. The issue was with the remittance of the Corporation's money to the common bank account. We are exploring the possibilities of opening eleven separate accounts for the 11 zonal offices so that monitoring of the funds is more convenient. We have requested the government to sort out the issues regarding the Sankhya software," she said. Explaining the detailed timeline of the issues, she said that a revenue officer who had newly taken charge at the Sreekaryam zonal office had noticed the anomalies in revenue collection on July 16 and promptly reported it to the Corporation Secretary. The Corporation administration on July 19 requested the local fund audit officials to carry out a detailed check of revenue collection at all the 11 zonal offices and the main office. The official at the Sreekaryam office, allegedly responsible for the anomaly, was suspended on the same day. The revenue collection records of the past two years are being checked, as the audits have been completed till March 2020, when the COVID-19 outbreak happened. Suspended Based on the reports of the audit team, officials at the Nemom and Attipra zonal offices were suspended. The police have also registered FIRs in each of these cases, based on the Corporation's complaint. As of now, fund anomalies to the tune of Rs. 5.7 lakh have been unearthed at the Sreekaryam zone, Rs. 26 lakh at the Nemom zone and Rs. 1.7 lakh at the Attipra zone. “I don't have the opinion that the talks with the BJP have failed. They demanded that the erring officials have to be arrested. That is not for the Corporation to decide. We have taken all the possible steps, including suspension of the officials, based on the investigation that we had demanded,” said Ms.Rajendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-to-end-bjps-protest-inconclusive/article36833429.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Citizen scientists list 71 odonate species||Around 80 volunteers from across Kerala, mostly students, sacrificed their Sunday morning slumber and assumed the role of citizen scientists, scouring their backyard and neighbouring wetlands to observe Odonates (dragonflies and damselflies). Nature enthusiasts and senior citizens also contributed to the participatory project under the Regional BioBlitz organized by WWF India, Society for Odonate Studies (SOS) and Thumbipuranam as part of the Dragonfly Festival Thumbimaholtsavam 2021. 400 entries The observations were uploaded on online platforms. There were around 400 entries in the Facebook group “Dragonflies and Damselflies” maintained by SOS. A total of 71 species were uploaded. The most common species observed were Neurothemis fulvia (Fulvous Forest Skimmer), Rhyothemis variegate (Common Picture-wing) and Orthetrum luzonicum (Marsh skimmer). Calocypha laidlawi (Myristica sapphire), Melanoneura bilineata and Idionyx gomantakensis (Goan shadow dancer) were the rare ones observed. After spending hours in the field observing the odonates flying and hovering high and low and seeing them perched on leaves, twigs and grass, Nandini, a Class VIII student from Thiruvananthapuram said she was mesmerized by the great diversity in dragonflies, their vivid colours, anatomy and unique behaviour. “The field experience has really opened my eyes to the variety of life there is in the many different habitats around us,” she says. Kerala is rich with around 175 species of Dragonflies and Damselflies. Amongst this, 65 are endemic species. “Thumbimaholtsavam” 2021-22 will continue till February 2022 and citizens are encouraged to explore and learn about these less-known wonders of the natural world. Observations Observations can be uploaded on iNaturalist, India biodiversity Portal or the “Dragonflies of Kerala” Facebook page and experts will guide the contributors in identifying species. Wetland biomonitoring, awareness sessions, photography and quiz competitions are the future programmes envisioned for Thumbimaholtsavam. For details, contact WWF India, Kerala State Office or Society for Odonate Studies at 9895428102/ 9446484573.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/citizen-scientists-list-71-odonate-species/article36833426.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parties should not adopt misogynist measures: CM||Political parties and organisations should refrain from sending across wrong messages on matters pertaining to gender justice and equality, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the Assembly on Monday. Mr. Vijayan made the call while replying to a question on the action taken by ‘the leadership of a prominent political party against its women members.’ The question, listed as second on the list of starred queries for the day, caused uproar with the Opposition UDF alleging that it was politically motivated. The Chief Minister said it was the government’s wish that political parties and organisations would desist from misogynistic measures which conveyed wrong messages to the people. Despite the State making considerable progress in women empowerment, vestiges of patriarchal and anti-women attitudes still existed in society, he said. ‘Internal issue of party’ UDF members were up on their feet objecting to the question, allegedly a veiled reference to the action initiated against members of the Haritha, women’s wing of the Muslim Students’ Federation. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan demanded that Speaker M.B. Rajesh strike the question off the list. It dealt with the internal functioning of a political party and defied an earlier ruling by the Speaker. As such, it lacked precedent and violated the sanctity of the question hour, Mr. Satheesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-should-not-adopt-misogynist-measures-cm/article36833208.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ready local plans when schools reopen: experts||As the State prepares to reopen its schools, it could open up new chains of COVID-19 transmission, impacting the current transmission dynamics. While anxieties are likely to run high amongst parents, the key message for the public is not to panic when children fall sick, health experts say. “Naturally, a good number of children will be affected by COVID-19. But we need to reassure parents that there is little to worry even if children test positive because they rarely get serious disease,” B. Ekbal, chairperson of the State experts’ committee on COVID-19, says. However, how well-prepared the State is to tackle new surges in transmission is important. Equally important would be allaying the fears of parents. “When children start going to school, there is the prospect of two-way transmission of the Delta variant – children getting infected and bringing it home to other adults in the family and children getting asymptomatic infection from adults in the household and spreading it in school,” says a public health expert Even if the combined natural immunity due to infection and immunity derived from vaccination crosses 70% in the State, as long as Delta continues to be the dominant virus, breakthrough infections, reinfections, and family clusters are likely to continue. Vaccine-derived “Unlike in north India where Delta variant swept through the population rendering natural immunity, in Kerala the infection was controlled and most people were covered by vaccination. More people here would have vaccine-derived immunity,” says T.S. Anish, a member of the experts’ committee. ‘Immunity will wane’ Studies have proven that vaccine-derived immunity begins to wane after three to five months. Hence regions where natural infection has been less could be more vulnerable to disease transmission. The government must have hyper-local plans to control this eventuality. Experts caution that the subtle nature of the evolving pandemic should not be discounted. The agility of the administration’s response will matter. They should be prepared to close schools for a short while, if required, while taking parents into confidence at every turn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-local-plans-when-schools-reopen-experts/article36833205.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala slams govt. for tabling Bill||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Monday slammed the LDF government for tabling the Kerala Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Assembly. Mr. Chennithala said the government had ignored cautionary reports from various quarters, including the Opposition, about amending certain sections of the law on the ground that they ran against the grain of the Central law concerned. The Opposition had said that Section 6 and Subsection 3 of the law would not stand legal scrutiny. Now the government has realised its folly and introduced a Bill to cover its tracks. The government had amended Section 6(3) of the Act to increase the number of local self-government representatives based on the 2011 Census. It ran against the central law that administrative boundaries should not be changed in the one-year run-up to a new census. The Census Registrar General had cautioned the Chief Secretary about the provision. However, the government had mindlessly muscled the erroneous amendment through the Assembly and had to retract it now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-slams-govt-for-tabling-bill/article36833419.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ISRO units in State capital celebrate World Space Week||Pascale Ehrenfreund, president, International Astronautical Federation, has urged women to take up the study of STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) subjects and become a part of the vibrant space sector. Prof. Ehrenfreund, who is also president, International Space University, was speaking online at the inauguration of the World Space Week (WSW) celebrations organised jointly by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) units in the State capital. This year's WSW celebrations has the theme 'Women in Space.' Prof. Ehrenfreund said there is a shortfall of students, in particular women, in the study of STEM subjects. ' 'Science and engineering strongly contribute to innovation that will define the future and what we actually offer the next generation. Women have to play an important role in this development, in particular, in the space sector,'' she said. Space economy The evolving space economy is developing a vibrant commercial and public space sector with unprecedented entrepreneurial leadership and private investment, offering students and professionals exciting prospects, she said. Prof. Ehrenfreund pointed out that the space sector contributes to all of the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs). Scientific spirit Chief Secretary V. P. Joy, who inaugurated WSW-2021, underscored the importance of promoting scientific spirit in the society. Even if people possess a scientific background, they tend to approach life with superstition, he said. S. Somanath, director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), presided. V. Narayanan, director of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre; Sam Dayala Dev, director of ISRO Inertial Systems Unit; and VSSC Chief Controller Biju Jacob also were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-stem-and-be-part-of-space-sector-women-told/article36833173.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four Bills tabled in Assembly||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan tabled four Bills on the first day of the Assembly session on Monday. The Employment Guarantee Workers’ Welfare Fund Bill, meant to replace an Ordinance which came into effect earlier this year, is aimed at providing pension, medical aid, educational aid for children, and other benefits to the MGNREGS and Ayyankali Employment Guarantee Scheme workers. Pension will be provided for those workers who have completed 60 years and have paid their contributions continuously till that age. Those between the ages of 18 and 55 can register. The Kerala Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Bill aims at bringing about amendments to the existing Act passed in 2016, after combining three Acts related to town planning. The amended Bill provides for State-level, district-level and local body-level spatial plans, in addition to the existing local body-level master plans. The Kerala Municipality (Amendment) Bill and the Kerala Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, to replace Ordinances enacted last year, incorporate amendments regarding timely conduct of local body elections and changes in building rules to reduce the issues faced by people in getting clearance for construction in smaller areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-bills-tabled-in-assembly/article36833199.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pay revision: doctors launch non-cooperation strike||Doctors in State Health Services began an indefinite non-cooperation strike on Monday in protest against the State government’s continued “neglect and disregard” towards the grievances of doctors regarding their pay revision. While patient care services in hospitals is not being affected, doctors staying away from the e-Sanjeevani on-line clinics run by the government could seriously affect non-COVID care, which are being run mainly on the virtual platform. As part of the non-cooperation, doctors have decided to stay away from participating in review meetings and training programmes as well. The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association has taken exception to the government’s disregard for their long-standing demand for risk allowance for doctors, who are working in highly stressed environment on a daily basis. The anomalies in pay revision has in effect robbed doctors of the allowances and the benefits they are getting so far, the KGMOA says. Other grievances raised by the KGMOA include slashing of basic pay at the entry cadre, stopping of personal pay and ratio promotion and denial of higher grade. Doctors are planning to intensify their strike from October 15 by boycotting VIP duties and meetings with local bodies. On November 1, they plan to take their protest to another level by continuously standing in protest in front of the Secretariat. If the government continues to ignore their demands, on November 16, government doctors across the State will go on leave en masse, the KGMOA says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-begin-indefinite-non-cooperation-strike/article36833180.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No bid to recruit girl students for extremist activities: CM||The State government has not noticed any attempt being made to lure female students into extremist activities from college campuses, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Monday. Interestingly, Mr. Vijayan’s response to a question in the House has come amid recent reports that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had alerted its cadres about alleged attempts by radical elements to recruit professional college students for extremist activities. Issue raised The issue was raised in the House by Shafi Parambil, A.P. Anil Kumar, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and Sajeev Joseph of the Congress through a starred question. On whether the “political resolution of a prominent political party” on this matter had come to the State government’s notice, the Chief Minister replied in the negative. Negative question He also replied in the negative to a question whether any government investigation had revealed attempts to recruit female students from college campuses for extremist activities. The CPI(M) warning to cadres about the purported attempt by communal elements was reportedly part of an internal note circulated ahead of the party’s branch and area committee meets. To a related question, the Chief Minister, in a written reply, said that the debate on ‘narcotic jihad’ had not created any rift or conflict among communities in the State. Conciliatory talks As such, the present situation in the State did not require the government to convene a meeting of community leaders for conciliatory talks. The State government was taking steps to ensure communal harmony and rally all sections of society for the development of the State, he added.  The debate on ‘narcotic jihad’ has not created any rift or conflict among communities Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-bid-to-recruit-girl-students-for-extremist-activities-cm/article36833195.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three arrested for drugging, robbery on city-bound train||The Railway Police have arrested three persons on charges of drugging and robbing gold and mobile phones from three women while travelling in the Hazrat Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Central Superfast Express on September 12. The accused have been identified as Shoukath Ali (51), Khayam (47) and Subair (50), all natives of West Bengal. An eight member Railway Police team from Kerala, led by Inspector Abhilash David, nabbed the three in Maharashtra from the Mangala Express heading towards Ernakulam. The incident came to light when Railway Protection Force (RPF) officers found the victims in a disoriented state inside a sleeper-class compartment of the train when it reached Thiruvananthapuram Central early on September 12. Gold, phone stolen The Railway Police team had initially received information that the alleged robbers had headed to Kolkata through Goa. Although they headed to Kolkata, the police were also parallelly tracking three names they had gathered from a reservation chart of a Nagercoil-bound train, in which a similar incident had happened last month. While tracking the names, they received information that the same set of persons had reserved seats from Agra on the Mangala Express. The police team also got on the train and nabbed the accused while the train was passing through Maharashtra. "All of them possessed fake id cards, using which they had reserved tickets. Now, recovery of the stolen gold and mobile phones are remaining,” an offical said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-men-held-in-drugging-robbery-incident-on-train/article36833261.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Malabar revolt: State opposes ICHR move||The State government has objected to the decision of the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) to remove Malabar Rebellion leaders from the martyrs’ list, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. The Chief Minister was replying to a question posed by T. V. Ibrahim of the Indian Union Muslim League on whether the government had officially conveyed its objections to the Central government and the ICHR. A three-member ICHR panel had controversially recommended the removal of Malabar Rebellion leaders Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji and Ali Musaliar and 387 other ‘Moplah martyrs’' from the Dictionary of Martyrs — India’s Freedom Struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malabar-revolt-state-opposes-ichr-decision/article36833342.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Air Marshal J. Chalapati takes over as SAC chief||Air Marshal J Chalapati has taken over as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) of the Southern Air Command (SAC) A guard of honour was presented to the Air Marshal on taking over the command. Mr.Chalapati did his schooling from the Hyderabad Public School before joining the National Defence Academy in 1980. Commissioned in the IAF in December 1983, he is a qualified flying instructor and an experimental test pilot on various types of fighters, transports and helicopters and the indigenously developed Light Combat Aircraft Tejas. He has experience in design, development and testing of aircraft with DRDO and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited where he has served as a Chief Test Pilot. Prior to his tenure at Southern Air Command, he was Commandant of Air Force Academy. Mr.Chalapati has completed his National Defence Course from Bangladesh and Masters Degree in Military Studies from King's College London. The Air Officer has received the Vishisht Seva Medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-marshal-j-chalapati-takes-over-as-sac-chief/article36833424.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMCTA to go on stir||Faculty in government medical volleges across the State are going on strike from October 21 in protest against the government’s refusal to implement the pay revision of medical college doctors, even after delaying it for five years. The pay revision of medical college doctors was due in 2016. But it was only in 2021, after several agitations, that the government decided to issue the pay revision order in 2020. However, most medical college faculty had not been issued a pay slip as per the revised salary, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) said here on Monday. The government had also refused to set right the anomalies in pay revision. To protest against the government’s refusal to pay the rightful wages to doctors even an year of issuing the GO, the faculty in various medical colleges would march to the office of the respective Principals and stage dharna on October 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgmcta-to-go-on-stir/article36833427.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic restrictions in city today||Traffic restrictions have been put in place in the city on Tuesday owing to the Navarathri idol processions, a pressnote by the City police has informed. The procession will reach the city borders at around noon and restart from Nemom at 3 p.m after a break. Restrictions will be in place from Pallichal near the city's border till the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple during the procession. For traffic-related complaints, contact - 9497930055, 9797987002, 9497990005, 9497990006||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-restrictions-in-city-today/article36833430.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nursing student held for altering certificate||The Cantonment police on Monday arrested a 25-year old man on charges of appearing for a nursing examination after tampering his COVID-19 test certificate. The accused has been identified as Prijin, hailing from Kizhuvilam. According to the police, Prijin, who is a nursing student at the Government School of Nursing at the General Hospital Road, had tampered with the COVID-19 test certificate, changing the negative test result into positive. He appeared for his first year kit in a PPE kit provided by the government, based on this tampered certificate. The case was registered following a complaint by the Principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested/article36833194.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for assault||The Kazhakuttam police on Monday arrested a 25-year-old man who was allegedly part of a gang of three men who attacked a youth at Menamkulam on September 19. The accused has been identified as Shan from Valiyaveli. According to the police, the three-member gang had attacked one Kevin from Valiyathoppu, who had arrived at his friend's house in Menamkulam for a house-warming ceremony. The attack was allegedly for dissuading the three of them from creating a ruckus on the roadside, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-assault/article36833431.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF dharna on Oct. 7||The UDF district leadership meeting here on Monday decided to stage a dharna before the City Corporation office on October 7 to protest the scam in building tax collection and the Scheduled Caste welfare funds. KPCC president K.Sudhakaran will inaugurate the dharna. The leadership meeting demanded the arrest of the officials involved in the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-dharna-on-oct-7/article36833433.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State looks into SilverLine eco impact||The environmental impact of SilverLine, the 529.45-km semi-high-speed rail corridor project, has been examined, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Replying to questions in the Assembly on Monday, he said a rapid environment impact assessment (EIA) for the project was carried out by the Centre for Environment and Development, Thiruvananthapuram. This report is available on the website of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail). The tendering process for a comprehensive EIA was in the final stage, he said. The government also intended to carry out a social impact assessment as part of the activities related to land acquisition. Public hearings would be held to allay project-related concerns , he said. A major portion of the Rs. 63,941-crore project passed through regions with relatively low population. The project would affect 9,314 buildings including residential structures. Protecting farmlands Of the 115 km passing through paddy fields, elevated tracks would constitute 88 km. This is aimed at protecting the farmlands, he said. The project calls for a land acquisition of 1,383 hectares. Of this, 1,198 hectares constitutes private land. Land acquisition would cost Rs. 13,362.32 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-looks-into-silverline-eco-impact/article36833200.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Red alert in Idukki today||Idukki has been put on red alert for extremely heavy rainfall (above 20 cm in a 24-hour period) on Tuesday. Kottayam, Palakkad and Malappuram are on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod have been put on yellow alert on Tuesday for isolated heavy rainfall. Squally weather with wind speeds reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail over the Kerala coast, Lakshadweep area and south-east Arabian sea till Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/red-alert-in-idukki-today/article36833201.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Daily cases dip below 10,000||New COVID-19 cases in the State dipped below the 10,000 mark for the first time in months on Monday and registered 8,850 cases when 74,871 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool has declined to 1,28,736 patients, with 17,007 recovering on the day. Only 11.2% of the active cases were in hospitals. The case fatality now stands at 25,526 with the State adding 149 recent deaths. ICU occupancy of COVID patients in hospitals was 1,827 on Monday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support is 792. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,134, followed by Thrissur 1,077, Ernakulam 920, Kozhikode 892, Malappuram 747, Kollam 729, Kannur 611, Kottayam 591, Palakkad 552, Alappuzha 525, Pathanamthitta 499, Idukki 376, Wayanad 105, and Kasaragod 92 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-cases-dip-below-10000/article36833207.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM promises action against cybercrimes||Cybercrimes against women will be dealt with strongly, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Monday. Instructions have been issued in this regard to the Police Department, the Chief Minister said, replying to questions in the House. It is noticed that certain social media use their platform to deliberately target women. Stringent action will be taken against such groups, the Chief Minister said. CPI(M) MLA Kanathil Jameela, who raised the issue in the Assembly, said there existed a situation where women who protested against oppression at various levels were mercilessly targetted on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-promises-action-against-cybercrimes/article36833422.ece
05 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,134 new cases in district||The district reported 1,134 COVID-19 cases on Monday taking the active case pool to 15,995 cases. The test positivity rate stood at 12.8%. The district also reported 1,731 recoveries. A total of 1,303 people were newly quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1134-new-cases-in-district/article36833432.ece
05 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI leader Rajan dies||Communist Party of India (CPI) Thrissur district executive member and trade union leader A.N. Rajan died at a private hospital here on Monday. He was 72. Rajan was admitted to the hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. According to party sources, he died of cardiac arrest. He was AITUC State vice president and State Control Commission member of the CPI. A former standing committee chairman (development) of the Thrissur district panchayat, he was also State president of the Electricity Workers Federation. Trade unions Rajan, who finished diploma in civil engineering from Maharaja’s Technological Institute, Thrissur, worked in various posts in the KSEB. He retired as sub-engineer of Viyyur sub-station. He played a key role in developing trade unions in the power sector. Rights of workers Condoling the death, CPI district secretary K.K. Valsaraj described Rajan as “an efficient organiser”, saying that he was in the forefront of the struggles for the rights of workers. Rajan possessed deep knowledge about trade union laws. His death is a huge loss for the trade unions and the CPI, said Mr. Valsaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-leader-rajan-dies/article36833259.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Opposition walks out||The 20% increase in Plus One seats in schools in North Kerala without a commensurate improvement in infrastructure would not stand legal scrutiny, he said. MLA’s charge Congress legislator Shafi Parambil, who sought leave for an adjournment motion, said the government could use the public money splurged on rented helicopters and expensive vehicles to sanction more Plus One batches. The UDF had aired the anxiety of students and parents who could ill-afford private schooling. “Even full A-plus students could not get admission in neighbourhood schools or opt for subjects of their choice,” he said. Mr. Sivankutty said the government would address anomalies in Plus One admission. The government would consider vacant seats set apart for the reservation category as merit seats during the second allotment. The Minister said that this year there were 3,94,457 Plus One seats available. Besides these seats, there were 33,000 vocational higher secondary seats and 70,000 seats in polytechnics and industrial training institutes. This ensured that all those who had passed SSLC had enough seats for pursuing further studies. Only some students who had full A+ had not been able to secure admission in the first allotment owing to limited options mentioned in their application. However, they would get admission in the second allotment. Vacant seats Reservation seats and those in the economically weaker sections category that remain vacant after the first allotment would be considered general merit seats in the second allotment. Seats thus obtained could also be filled during the second allotment, the Minister said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied nod for the UDF motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-walks-out/article36833197.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New products from Milma||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-products-from-milma/article36833175.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unity is strength||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unity-is-strength/article36833340.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest against arrest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-arrest/article36833257.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article36833435.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gush of relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gush-of-relief/article36833203.ece
05 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Citizens’ Forum slams mounting civic taxes||Levying ‘true-up charges’ to make up for losses incurred years ago is unheard of in a civilised society, said members of the A.P. United Citizens Forum who launched an awareness drive here on Monday to highlight the impact of tax hikes implemented by the State government. Forum president S.A. Rasool, general secretary A.G. Rajamohan, secretaries Satyanarayana Reddy and S. Rahul and treasurer T. Ramakrishna fanned out across walking arenas and parks such as Police Training College ground, Rajiv Children’s Park, JNTU, and Govt. Arts College as well as colony parks in residential areas to create awareness on the hike in property tax, and user charges for garbage collection under the new CLAP scheme by the Anantapur Municipal Corporation. Residents of the Housing Board and Gandhi Bazaar were explained about the new system of assessing property tax, user charge on garbage collection, borewell water used in the gated community and residential apartments, and true-up charge levied by the Discom. “It is the responsibility of the government to provide surface water. In the absence of this, residents are left with no option but to utilise groundwater. Moreover, as the apartments are on non-commercial premises, imposing user charges based on consumption is undemocratic,” the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citizens-forum-slams-mounting-civic-taxes/article36832863.ece
05 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kia India gets new head||The Kia India, which has its car manufacturing facility here in the district, on Monday announced that Tae-Jin Park, its Executive Director and Chief Sales & Business Strategy Officer (CSBO), will assume the role of Managing Director and CEO. Mr. Park succeeded Kookhyun Shim to spearhead the operations for the Kia India from Monday. Mr. Park has been associated with Kia India since January last year. Mr. Kookhyun Shim had played a crucial role in introducing the Kia brand in India. Under his supervision, Kia India completed its manufacturing unit in Anantapur and started mass production of vehicles in record time. Mr. Kookhyun Shim will retire from his services and move back to Korea. In his new role, Mr. Park will be responsible for the company’s growth and market expansion in the country. He will directly oversee the entire manufacturing, product strategy and development, business planning, and sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kia-india-gets-new-head/article36832865.ece
05 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 2,300 cr. input subsidies due in State: TDP leader||The TDP demands immediate sanction of compensation for the groundnut crop loss in Kurnool and Anantapur districts and has drawn up plans for a massive agitation in the villages, said party polit bureau member and Rayalaseema coordinator Kalava Srinivasulu here on Monday. “Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had stationed himself in the district for six days when a similar situation arose in 2016 and ensured that farmers got input subsidies on time, but Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy did not visit one village even in his home district of Kadapa, where 20,000 acres of crop had withered due to lack of rain,” the leader said at a press conference here. The government started the Rythu Bharosa Kendras, but there was no confidence-building measure being taken up nor the Rs. 2,300 crore-input subsidy, pending for the past two years, has been paid, he observed. The TDP leader demanded an immediate visit by the Agriculture Minister to assess the crop loss and complete the verification of e-crop booking, which is pending for four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-2300-cr-input-subsidies-due-in-state-tdp-leader/article36832864.ece
05 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenant farmer ‘ends life’ in Dharmavaram||A tenant farmer identified as Rajasekhara Reddy (40), allegedly ended his life at Shiva Nagar in Dharmavaram town in Anantapur district on Monday, unable to clear mounting debts. Rajasekhara Reddy is survived by his wife Chandrakala, three daughters, and a son. According to the police, his wife and children had gone to visit his in-laws at Thummala village in Dharmavaram mandal when the incident occurred. He had an outstanding loan of Rs. 8 lakh and the crop in the three acres of land he had taken on tenancy from his father-in-law did not yield any income, and he had spent money on sinking borewells, which also failed. With mounting debts and dwindling income, Rajasekhara Reddy resorted to the extreme step on Monday morning, it is learnt. There is always someone to talk to at 100; 9989819191 or email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenant-farmer-ends-life-in-dharmavaram/article36832866.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress sets deadline for Mekedatu||The Congress on Monday set a one-month deadline for the State government to lay the foundation stone for the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project across Cauvery river. “Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held the Water Resources portfolio in the past and he is aware of the legalities involved. He has said that Tamil Nadu has no right to object to the project. We have also been telling the same thing,” said KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. “Why have you not taken any action in this regard? Why are you unable to start the Krishna and Mahadayi projects yet?” he asked. He went on to say that Karnataka did not need land or money from Tamil Nadu for the project. “There is a double-engine government. We have not asked you not to start the project. Why are you unable to start the project by taking all the necessary permissions?” he asked, adding, “We will give one month’s time to prepare to lay the foundation stone. Stop delaying irrigation and drinking water projects. If works are not started, we will start an agitation.” Condemning the ghastly death of farmers in Uttar Pradesh after they were run over by an SUV, Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress would stand by the farmers in their struggle against recent farm laws. He also condemned the arrest of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to the farmers’ protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-sets-deadline-for-mekedatu/article36832813.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin writes to 12 CMs on NEET||Mustering support for his government’s fight against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday wrote to his counterparts in 12 States, calling for united efforts to restore the primacy of the States in administering the education sector as originally envisaged in the Constitution. His letter was addressed to the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal. “Our considered position has always been that the Union government’s decision to introduce the NEET goes against the very spirit of federalism and violates the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the State governments to decide on the method of admission to the medical institutions founded, established and run by them,” Mr. Stalin said in the letter, a copy of which was circulated to the media. “In this regard, we consider that the State governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions,” he said. A copy of the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee’s report on the adverse impact of the NEET and a copy of the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act, 2021 — adopted in the Assembly last month on the basis of the report — were also enclosed with the letter. Mr. Stalin also requested his counterparts to ensure that the students of their States, especially those hailing from rural areas and the marginalised sections, were not put to hardship in obtaining admission to higher educational institutions. “We need to put up a united effort to restore the primacy of the State governments in administering the education sector, as envisaged in our Constitution. I look forward to your cooperation in this crucial issue.” The Chief Minister also instructed the DMK MPs to hand over the “translated report of the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee to brief the efforts made by the Government of Tamil Nadu so far in this regard”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/neet-stalin-writes-to-12-cms/article36832901.ece
05 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to build resting facilities for devotees||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams will construct resting facilities for devotees heading from Chennai to Tirumala at three or four locations, its chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy has said. He said thousands of devotees were heading to Tirumala by ‘padayatra’ all through the year and the TTD felt it was essential to provide ‘mandapams’ with basic amenities to enable them to halt to refresh, cook food and rest en route . Mr. Subba Reddy made this announcement at the swearing-in ceremony of A.J. Sekhar, who was re-nominated to the post of Local Area President, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, TTD, here on Monday. The TTD Chairman said the proposed ‘mandapams’ would come up at every 30th km between Chennai and Tirupati and the route and site location maps were getting ready. Efforts were on to expedite the project on constructing a replica of the Tirumala temple in Chennai at a site identified in Sholinganallur. Mr. Subba Reddy said the Devasthanams would construct a community hall on 1.5 acres of land it owns at a prime locality in Royapettah for public use. Besides spiritual programmes, public could make use of the hall for organising functions like marriages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-build-resting-facilities-for-devotees/article36832832.ece
05 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers allege fraud by food processing unit||Representatives of the Federation of Farmers’ Associations (FFA) on Monday lodged a complaint with Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, alleging that a food processing firm on the outskirts of Chittoor had cheated the mango growers by not paying for the stocks supplied to the factory, besides reneging on their assurance of a Rs. 1 premium on a kg of supply. The forum leaders alleged that though the firm’s management had agreed to make the payments within ten days of supply, they had not received any money even after 80 days. FFA’s A.P. unit president M. Gopal Reddy, general secretary V. Mohan Kumar, FFA-Chittoor unit president K.R. Venkat Reddy and vice-president N. Nageswara Raju met the SP at the ‘Spandana’ programme here, and submitted the complaint. The forum leaders said that an agreement was signed between the Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Association (CIFA) and the food processing firm on June 3, 2021 regarding direct supply of mangoes to a popular beverage industry. Based on the agreement, the mango growers in Chittoor district, mostly from mandals in Chittoor division, had supplied 941 loads to the firm. CIFA chief adviser P. Chengal Reddy said despite repeated requests with the food industry, there was no response. He alleged that the factory management had even attempted to coerce mango growers to stop demanding for their dues. “We have sought the SP to inquire into the fraud and file a cheating case against the persons responsible,” he said. He said the matter would also be brought to the notice of Collector M. Hari Narayanan, and added that the mango growers would go on a hunger strike to get justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-allege-fraud-by-food-processing-unit/article36833238.ece
05 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP will go solo in Badvel bypoll: Veerraju||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju has said that the party will fight the Badvel bypoll tooth and nail. “The BJP will go alone in the bypoll and respects the decision of the Jana Sena Party (JSP) to stay away. However, the two parties would continue their alliance in future,” Mr. Veerraju told the media here on Monday. The BJP State president, who was on a day-long tour to the city as part of the nationwide ‘Seva and Samarpana Abhiyan’ programme, inaugurated a photo exhibition on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Indian Tobacco Association Hall and distributed trunk boxes to cobblers and launched a postcard. The BJP State president made scathing comments on the ruling YSRCP saying that the BJP too had been striving for the welfare of the poor and downtrodden, noting that the BJP ensured that Rs. 6,000 was transferred to every farmer under direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and allotted Rs. 3000 crore for providing drinking water to every household in the State. Further, the Central government has ensured 24x7 power supply and set up two defence projects in Krishna district. “The BJP strongly believes that politics is for serving people, not earning money. We are proud that the BJP is nurturing its leaders in that way. Development and welfare are the prime goals of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP has done a lot for the development of the State,” said Mr. Veerraju. BJP leaders Patibandla Ramakrishna, Ravela Kishore Babu, Tobacco Board Chairman Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu, Jupudi Ranga Raju and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-will-go-solo-in-badvel-bypoll-veerraju/article36833253.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana complains to KRMB over A.P.’s Handri-Neeva project||Telangana government has raised its concern over the plan of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to enhance the scope of Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS-lift irrigation project), a surplus water based project taken up outside the Krishna Basin, by taking up a new reservoir with irrigation potential of 23,000 acres as part of the HNSS phase-two. It has addressed a letter to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Monday requesting the latter to restrain A.P. from constructing the new reservoir at Jilledubanda near Dharmavaram in Anantapur district with a storage capacity of 2.41 tmc ft water drawn from Srisailam, in violation of the A.P. Reorganisation Act. Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) of Telangana C. Muralidhar wrote to KRMB Chairman M.P. Singh that Jilledubanda reservoir is one of the new schemes/projects taken up after bifurcation of combined A.P. with a cost of Rs. 47,776 crore in violation of the APRA, without appraisal of the river board and without approval of the Apex Council. The Jilledubanda scheme was given administrative approval with Rs. 680 crore in September last year and tenders were invited recently with an estimated cost of Rs. 609.14 crore. Water would be diverted to the new reservoir by constructing a cross regulataor on the HNSS main canal at 377.1 km and water diverted from there would be given to the 23,000 proposed ayacut in Bathalapalli, Mudigubba, Dharmavaram and Tadimarri mandals. The ENC has brought to the notice of KRMB Chairman that Telangana has already written several letters to the river board in the matter highlighting A.P.’s plans to enhance scope of several surplus water based projects outside the basin, including expansion of HNSS, with a plea to stop that State for carrying the works being taken up in violation of the APRA and without appraisal and approval of the river board and Apex Council. As such, A.P. has approvals from the Central Water Commission and Ministry of Water Resources (Jal Shakti) to draw only 34 tmc ft of flood flows from Srisailam reservoir to the outside basin areas but it has been diverting huge quantities of water every year by taking new projects/schemes on regular basis, when several projects within the basin were starving for water. The Telangana ENC brought to the KRMB Chairman’s notice that AP has already diverted 93.29 tmc ft water till September-end, including 82.09 tmc ft from Pothireddypadu head regulator and 11.2 tmc ft from Malyala, the take-off pump house of HNSS in Kurnool district. Further, he pointed out that A.P. did not file a plea for allocation of water out of dependable flows to HNSS before KWDT-II. Stating that such diversions to the outside basin areas would certainly affect the needs of Krishna Basin areas of Telangana based on Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs and worsen the situation, the ENC urged the river board to stop A.P. from going ahead with its HNSS expansion plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-opposes-aps-water-project-plan/article36832812.ece
05 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Research scholar held for ‘links with Maoists’||A research scholar of the Osmania University, who was the State president of the Telangana Vidyarthi Sangam (TVS), was arrested by the L.B. Nagar police of the Rachakonda Commissionerate for his alleged links with the outlawed CPI (Maoist) party, and for “encouraging” people to join the outfit. He was arrested in a two-year-old Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case. Kota Srinivas Goud, 38, a resident of Baudhanagar, Warasiguda, hails from Appannapet of Peddapalli district. According to L.B. Nagar inspector V. Ashok Reddy, Mr. Goud possessed Maoist literature and was conspiring with persons belonging to the banned Maoist party, besides inciting people to become members. “As a result, he was involved in the terrorist act as defined under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967. He also supported terrorist organisations to further their activity by encouraging support for the said banned organisation,” the inspector said. He said Mr. Goud was an active member and took part in meetings and activities of the banned party. Mr. Goud also assisted in the management of an unlawful organisation, besides indulging in unlawful activities of the banned outfit. The accused indulged in unlawful activities by advocating, abetting, inciting and committing all such activities in furtherance of the common goal of the Maoist party to wage war against the government, the inspector added. “He committed the offence of criminal conspiracy against the State to wage war and pull down the government. His activities were upholding the ideology of the CPI (Maoist) party and working for it, though the party has been banned under the provisions of the UAPA Act and under the provisions of the Telangana State Public Security Act-2012,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/university-scholar-held-for-links-with-maoists/article36832829.ece
05 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||LTTE involved in arms, drugs smuggling: NIA||The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was involved in the smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs seized from a Sri Lankan fishing vessel off Lakshadweep last year, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Two Tamil Nadu natives — Suresh Raj and Soundarajan — who were arrested in connection with the seizure of drugs were members of the LTTE. They were working secretly for furthering the activities of the LTTE. The digital evidence collected from the accused has proved these facts, the agency submitted before the NIA special court in Kochi. The Coast Guard had intercepted the Sri Lankan fishing vessel Ravihansi in the Arabian Sea on March 18 this year and seized huge quantities of narcotic drugs, five AK-47 rifles and 1,000 pieces of 9-mm ammunition from them. The agency had also arrested six Sri Lankan nationals. The case was later taken over by the NIA. It was while seeking the custody of Ahamad Fasly of Mannadi, Tamil Nadu, who was arrested on October 1, that the investigation agency submitted the details of the LTTE connection of the accused. Hawala operations Custodial investigation revealed that the accused had collected huge amounts for the activities of the LTTE through drugs and gold smuggling and hawala operations. The accused had also revealed the names of a few LTTE leaders and the methods of keeping the funds and the future plans of the organisation in collecting the arms and ammunition. The investigation into these aspects are progressing, it submitted. The role of L.Y. Nishantha, the owner of the fishing vessel, and the other accused Ramesh Arasarathanam, Anju, Deepa Rajan Rangan and Haji Salim in the crime was revealed during the investigation, it submitted. Investigation into the origin and destination of the arms and ammunition seized from the accused is progressing. The role of other suspects in the country and abroad, which was revealed by the accused, is also being probed, the agency submitted before the court. The NIA had invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ltte-involved-in-arms-drugs-smuggling-nia/article36832816.ece
05 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Legitimise irrigation projects in Rayalaseema’||Farmers, villagers, and members of several rights groups held a day-long ‘hunger strike’ seeking legitimacy for six ongoing and partially operational irrigation projects on the Krishna as all of them are at the risk of being declared ‘illegal projects’ if permissions are not granted within six months of the Krishna River Management Board turning functional on October 14. Around 200 people attended the agitation, where they promised to intensify their struggle if the water rights of the region were not protected within the next six months. Rayalaseema Saguneeti Ramrakshana Sadhana Samithi president Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy, who led the hunger strike, questioned why politiicans who were agitating against the decision of the Centre to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, and demanding the completion of the Polavaram irrigation project, were silent on the issue of the Rayalaseema region’s water rights. “If these projects are not made a permanent allocation from the original quota of the State through internal adjustments, a day will come when drinking water will have to be carried to Rayalaseema districts from other regions of the State,” Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy said. “At the time of State reorganisation, then Union Minister Jairam Ramesh, in reply to a question raised by M. Venkaiah Naidu on the six projects, had said in Parliament that all ongoing projects were incorporated as legitimate projects and they were to get 160 tmcft saved through the diversion of Godavari water through Dummugudem Nagarjunasagar Tailpond,” Mr. Dasratharami Reddy said. The project got stalled and now the Telugu Ganga Project, Mutchumarri Lift Irrigation, Galeru Nagari, and Handri Neeva were sanctioned three decades ago based on surplus water and were partially operational during the State division in 2014, but now as per the latest order issued by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, unless the KRMB provides allocations to these projects, their operation may become illegal and people may not get even drinking water, the leaders said. Others who participated in the agitation include IMA president Vijaybhaskar Reddy, B.C. Welfare Sangham president B. Naganna, and leaders from various people’s organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legitimise-irrigation-projects-in-rayalaseema/article36833248.ece
05 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IUML counters CM remarks on party||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) district president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal here on Monday countered Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s remarks about the party, saying no other party had given representation to women as much as the IUML. “The IUML has more than 2,000 women representatives in local bodies. There is no gender discrimination within the party,” he said. Mr. Thangal, who holds charge of the party’s State president as his elder brother Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal has been unwell, was responding to Mr. Vijayan’s oblique reference to the IUML blaming it for gender discrimination in the light of a recent controversy over Haritha, the women student wing of the party. After Haritha filed a complaint of sexual harassment with the State Women’s Commission against MSF leaders, the IUML had disbanded the State committee and reconstituted it with those who had kept off the controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iuml-counters-remarks/article36832817.ece
05 October 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka performs rituals for about 950 COVID-19 victims||The post-death rituals of COVID-19 victims, whose unclaimed ashes were immersed in the Cauvery this June, were performed at the behest of the State government at Srirangapatna on Monday. Revenue Minister R. Ashok participated in the ceremony (‘Pinda Pradhana’), which was conducted by priests at Gosai Ghat on the banks of the Cauvery. Supervised by head priest Bhanuprakash Sharma, the rituals lasted a few hours marking the culmination of the process which began in June. The ashes, which were unclaimed, were immersed in the Cauvery in a mass ceremony at Belakavadi village on June 2.  950 victims The State government took the lead in conducting the last rites to ensure, what it described as, a dignified farewell to the COVID-19 victims. In all, the names of nearly 950 victims were invoked during the prayers, according to the priests. Mr. Ashok said the pandemic has claimed thousands of lives and the family members of many could not ensure a dignified farewell. “The rites performed as per Hindu traditions is to ensure sadgati or salvation to the deceased. We have prayed for the peace of the souls and want to ensure that none of the COVID-19 victims, whose family members could not perform the last rites, were deprived of the post-death rituals,” said Mr. Ashok. The Minister said such mass rites were conducted in the past as well during natural calamities and wars, and were consistent with Indian traditions. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ashwathi, Deputy Commissioner of Mandya, and other officials from the district administration were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-performs-rituals-for-about-950-covid-19-victims/article36832827.ece
05 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers vow to continue stir||Members of the Samuykta Kisan Morcha(SKM) staged a demonstration in front of the Collector's office here on Monday in protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh which left at least eight people, including farmers and local journalist, dead and several others injured. Leading the protest, SKM Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga demanded stern action against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish Mishra in connection with the violence. Leaders of the SKM, including All India Khet Mazdoor Union State general secretary Ch. Venkateswarlu, All India Kisan Sabha Prakasam District President Vadde Hanuma Reddy, Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam District Secretary P.Venkat Rao and Andhra Pradesh Rythu Coolie Sangam District Secretary Lalitha Kumari, vowed to continue their protracted struggle against the three farm laws till they were repealed and statutory backing provided to the minimum support price regime. They would continue to work for the political isolation of the saffron party in national politics, they asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-vow-to-continue-stir/article36832868.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Minister Shailaja’s move raises eyebrows||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] legislator K.K. Shailaja appeared to have put the government on the defensive in the Assembly on Monday by moving a calling attention motion to focus on the “scarcity” of higher secondary Plus One seats in the State. The former high-profile Health Minister and currently Chief Whip of the CPI(M) said she was highlighting “the necessity to make arrangements in ensuring admission to all students who have passed SSLC examination this academic year for higher studies.” Congress legislator Shafi Parambil had already sought leave of the House to move an adjournment motion on the touchy subject. Floor strategy However, Left Democratic Front sources said Ms. Shailaja’s motion was part of the ruling front’s floor strategy to forestall the Opposition’s bid to capitalise on the issue. They said it was no critique of the government as portrayed by some television news channels. Earlier, Ms. Shailaja had raised few eyebrows by moving a calling attention motion related to a COVID-19-related public health issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-minister-shailajas-move-raises-eyebrows/article36832822.ece
05 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row in Kerala over Plus One seat crunch||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Kerala Assembly on Monday slamming the government for its “failure” to ensure an adequate number of higher secondary Plus One seats for SSLC pass-outs. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said an estimated 4,19,653 students had qualified for admission to Plus One courses. However, the yawning gap between the high number of aspirants and the relatively low number of seats available in public-funded schools would force a large number of eligible students from struggling families out of the mainstream of affordable education. Unaided schools that levy a high fee would be their only recourse. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty had refused to sanction more batches in government-aided schools. Instead, he had guaranteed more Plus One seats for private schools to tide over the crisis of the government’s own making, Mr. Satheesan said. Remark sparks furore Mr. Satheesan’s remark questioning Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s wisdom in giving Mr. Sivankutty the Education portfolio sparked a furore in the House. It also provoked a tit-for-tat reply from the Minister. “I did not ask who appointed Mr. Satheesan as Leader of the Opposition,” he said. Mr. Sivankutty also chided Mr. Satheesan for erroneously stating that Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had conducted their board examinations. “Only Kerala has that honour,” he said. Mr. Satheesan warned the government that the High Court had asked not to cram students in classrooms. The 20% increase in Plus One seats in schools in north Kerala without a commensurate improvement in infrastructure would not stand legal scrutiny, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/row-in-kerala-over-plus-one-seat-crunch/article36832821.ece
05 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City CFO bags prestigious ICMAI award||Sri City Chief Financial Officer (CFO) R. Nagarajan has received the prestigious ‘Best CMA-CFO award’ from the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of India (ICMAI), a premier statutory accounting body in the country. The award was conferred virtually on him at the 5th CMA-CFO Awards 2017 held on Monday, recognising his significant contributions in improving corporate governance, value creation and preservation, managing risk and control, achieving operational efficiency, promoting good CSR practices and implementing innovative CMA practices under the category ‘Service Small Scale’ sector. Mr. Nagarajan had earlier bagged ‘Asian CFO Leadership Award’ in July 2021 and ‘CFO India’ award consecutively in 2019, 2020 and 2021. He was also adjudged as one of India’s 50 best CFOs by Whitepage International, in association with UK Asian Business Council in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-city-cfo-bags-prestigious-icmai-award/article36832869.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests in city against violence on U.P. farmers||Protesting against violence on farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, in which eight persons were killed and several others were injured, leaders of various farmers associations staged a dharna at Lenin Centre here on Monday. Leaders of A.P. Rythu Sangam, Rythu Samakya and Telugu Rythu Sangam raised slogans demanding action against Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. The leaders allege that the Minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, had drove the vehicle which hit the farmers. The protesters alleged that the accused had deliberately run his vehicle over the agitating farmers, and demanded dismissal of the Minister from the Cabinet immediately. The rythu sangam leaders demanded stern action against the guilty and provide better treatment for those injured in the violence. Former Minister and rythu leader Vadde Shobhanadreeswara Rao, leaders of various farmers associations participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-in-city-against-violence-on-up-farmers/article36833443.ece
05 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aided schools’ takeover: HC tells govt. not to resort to coercion||A division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya directed the government not to coerce unwilling aided schools to accept its merger offer and that necessary instructions be given to the officers concerned to disburse the grants-in-aid as usual until the slew of petitions filed against the merger are adjudicated. The court was hearing several petitions filed by aided schools’ managements and students against the Ordinance (No.12/2021) which the government issued on August 6 to make certain amendments to the Education Act, 1982 to facilitate the merger/takeover and the consequential G.O. (Ms.No.50) dated August 17. The next hearing is scheduled for October 28 and the government is to file a counter by October 22. Appearing for the Education Department, government pleader K. Raghuveer said grants-in-aid were being given to even those aided schools which refused to merge with the government and that the Commissioner of School Education had taken the required steps in that regard. Representing the educational institutions, advocates N. Subba Rao, M. Devi Prasad and K. Siva Rama Krishna argued that the government resorted to strong-arm tactics to implement the impugned Ordinance and the G.O which were violative of the Education Act, Article 21-A of the Constitution and the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. The crux of the matter is their allegation that the government intended to withhold, reduce or withdraw grants payable to the aided schools without holding the due process of consultations. The result was forcible takeover of the institutions, which has far-reaching consequences for the education sector as a whole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aided-schools-takeover-hc-tells-govt-not-to-resort-to-coercion/article36833244.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC to evaluate Group-I examination papers manually||Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) Secretary P. Sitharama Anjaneyulu has said that the commission will evaluate the answer papers of the Group-I recruitment examinations in manual mode within the next three to four months. In a press conference on Monday, Mr. Anjaneyulu said the APPSC respects the Andhra Pradesh High Court order on the evaluation of the examination papers digitally. “Following the High Court order, the papers will be evaluated manually and it might take about three to four months after which results will be announced and interviews will be conducted. The digital evaluation of the answer papers was done in a transparent manner and the APPSC is confident that no mistake has been committed due to the digital evaluation,” Mr. Anjaneyulu. ‘Job notification soon’ He said that the State government had announced the details of several posts to be filled, but there was a delay in issuing notifications owing to the relaxations and changes made to the reservation quota by the government later. “The number of posts is also being increased and assessment is going on at present. The job notifications will be issued soon,” Mr. Anjaneyulu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-to-evaluate-group-i-examination-papers-manually/article36833251.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No darshan for children, elderly at Indrakeeladri during Dasara||Officials from the Endowments, Police, Revenue departments and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation on Monday reviewed the arrangements for the nine-day Dasara festival at the Kanaka Durga temple at Indrakeeladri, begining October. Children aged below ten and devotees aged above 60 are barred from having darshan at the temple during the festival. There will be no separate darshan for Bhavanis (devotees who took ‘Bhavani Deeksha’) this year due to COVID, the officials said. The temple officials have made arrangements for darshan for 10,000 devotees daily. Devotees can book tickets in advance at http://aptemples.ap.gov.in. Queue lines would be arranged from Vinayaka temple. Information centres, prasadam counters, drinking water facilities would be set up for the devotees, said the temple officials. All the bathing ghats will be closed and there is no permission for devotees to take bath in Krishna river. Showers will be arranged at Seetammavari Padalu and devotees can offer hair at Saneeswara Swamy temple. Police pickets will be arranged at bus and railway stations, queue lines, ghat road, Arjuna Veedhi and other vital points, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said. “Police will monitor the situation round-the-clock at the temple and at all important junctions,” he added. Devotees can alert police by calling ‘Dial 100’ or drop a text on Vijayawada City Police’s Whatsapp no.7328909090 if they see anyone moving suspiciously, he said, adding that traffic diversions would be imposed during the utsavams. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas, Collector J. Nivas, Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam Trust Board chairman Paila Sominaidu, Mayor K. Bhagya Lakshmi, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Principal Secretary (Endowments) G. Vani Mohan, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh reviewed the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-darshan-for-children-elderly-at-indrakeeladri-during-dasara/article36833240.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State logs four COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours||The State reported four more deaths due to coronavirus and 429 infections in 24 hours, ending Monday morning. Only 30,515 tests were conducted in the past day, the lowest number of tests conducted per day in the past 202 days, and their positivity rate was put at 1.41%. The daily test positivity rate continued to stay below 2% for the eighth consecutive day. The single-day infection tally was the lowest in the past 196 days. The daily toll was also the lowest in the past 118 days. Active cases For the first time in 184 days, the number of active cases dipped to below 10,000. With 1,029 patients recovering in the past day, the total count went up to 20,29,231 and the active cases tally came down to 9,752. The recovery rate was put at 98.83%. Guntur district reported two more deaths in the past day while Chittoor and Krishna reported one each. East Godavari district reported 89 infections in the past day. It was followed by Nellore (85), Chittoor (72), Prakasam (43), Guntur (40), Krishna (39), Visakhapatnam (34), Srikakulam (9), West Godavari (7), Kadapa (6), Kurnool (3), Anantapur (1) and Vizianagaram (1). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,91,827), Chittoor (2,44,480), West Godavari (1,78,018), Guntur (1,76,301), Anantapur (1,57,620), Visakhapatnam (1,56,777), Nellore (1,45,316), Prakasam (1,37,577), Kurnool (1,24,028), Srikakulam (1,22,746), Krishna (1,17,713), Kadapa (1,15,106) and Vizianagaram (82,788).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-four-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours/article36833242.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja being smuggled to Telangana seized, 6 held||The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested six persons at the city railway station and seized ganja packed in bags. The contraband was being smuggled from Addateegala in East Godavari district to Telangana, said GRP Circle Inspector R. Srinivas. “On suspicion, we checked the luggage of the suspects on Platform No.5 on Sunday night. The accused came to Vijayawada on the Simhadri Express and were caught while they were waiting to catch a train to Hyderabad,” Mr. Srinivas said. The gang shifted ganja bags, weighing 96 kg, on a private vehicle to Rajahmundry railway station and from there boarded a train to Vijayawada. The accused hailed from Rajavommangi in East Godavari district, and from Visakhapatnam and Kadapa districts. The accused were produced in the Railway Court, Vijayawada, on Monday, and were shifted to Rajahmundry Central Prison, the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-being-smuggled-to-telangana-seized-6-held/article36833438.ece
05 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to protest power tariff hike till October 31||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) lambasted the YSRCP government for increasing the power tariffs six times in just two-and-a-half years even as the people grappled with the coronavirus pandemic. The TDP will be organising protests across the State up to October 31 to exert pressure on the government to roll back the hike. A decision to this effect was taken in a high-level meeting on Monday presided by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The TDP had not increased the power tariffs even by a single rupee during its five-year rule. In contrast, the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government has failed to deliver its much-hyped promise not to revise the power tariffs, a release by the TDP said on Monday. Mr. Naidu said the move taken imposed a burden of Rs. 36,102 crore on the power sector. The power tariff hike alone was fleecing consumers to the tune of Rs. 11,611 crore. The TDP leaders said the government had failed in coming to the rescue of the farmers who had been bearing the brunt of cyclones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-protest-power-tariff-hike-till-october-31/article36833245.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 crore vaccines given in Sept.||The State administered over one crore doses of the vaccine against COVID-19 in September. The Health Department stated that as of September 30, a total of 4.11 crore vaccines were administered and in September alone 1.04 crore doses were given. In August, 86.58 lakh doses were administered and in July 57.12 lakh. As of 8 p.m. on Monday, 4.26 crore doses were administered in the State and at least 1.43 crore people got fully vaccinated and 2.82 crore people got partially vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-crore-vaccines-given-in-sept/article36833439.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to mortgage govt. land a Tughlaq decision, says Ayyanna||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has questioned the right of the State government in mortgaging valuable public assets to raise funds. Describing it as a ‘Tughlaq’ decision, he called upon all political parties in North Andhra to oppose it. In a video message from Narsipatnam on Monday, the TDP leader alleged that valuable assets were being taken over in Visakhapatnam under the auspices of Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The YSR Congress Party government has mortgaged valuable government lands at 13 places in the city at Government ITI, Government Polytechnic, Circuit House, Tahsildar Office, Gopalapatnam Rythu Bazaar and Police Quarters to raise Rs. 25,000 crore. He also alleged that the government had mortgaged the lands even as a case was pending in the court. “When outsiders come and loot our region should we keep mum? They will go away after two years and people of our region will stand to lose,” the TDP leader said and called upon local leaders of all political parties to realise their responsibility in saving assets of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-mortgage-govt-land-a-tughlaq-decision-says-ayyanna/article36833448.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP has no right to criticise YSR Congress, says MLA||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government, which had indulged in outright sale of public lands for its selfish gains, in the past, has no right to criticise the YSR Congress Party government on the mortgage of lands in Visakhapatnam to raise loans from banks, Anakapalle MLA from YSRCP Gudivada Amarnath has said. Like the TDP, the YSR Congress Party government has not sold or given land on lease to its cronies, but only mortgaged them to raise loans to tide over the difficult financial situation in view of the COVID-19, Mr. Amarnath told the media here on Monday. The MLA said that the State government was getting only about Rs. 3 crore to Rs. 4 core, a day, due to the pandemic during the last one-and-a-half years, as against the expected revenue of about Rs. 150 crore, a day. Despite the difficult economic situation, the State government has not reneged on its promises and was spending Rs. 1.10 lakh crore on implementing welfare schemes. Referring to the allegations made by TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, he said that the YSRCP government has protected hundreds of acres of land, grabbed by the TDP leaders in Visakhapatnam, during the past two years. He alleged that records pertaining to hundreds of acres of land went missing during the previous government, and Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu as a Minister failed to act on it. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu had also maintained a stoic silence when the TDP MPs tried to tarnish the brand image of Visakhapatnam that it was not suitable for railway zone headquarters and that the city faced the threat of submersion, Mr. Amarnath alleged. Mr. Amarnadh said that the Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu and the party leaders had made baseless allegations against the Chief Minister and the Ministers at a meeting of senior TDP leaders on Monday. The YSRCP MLA alleged that Mr. Naidu was spewing venom on the ruling party as he was unable to digest the success of the YSRCP and the support being given by the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-has-no-right-to-criticise-ysr-congress-says-mla/article36833449.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions stage dharna over death of farmers in U.P.||The death of eight farmers, after they were run over by the convoy of a Union Minister in Uttar Pradesh, evoked protests from people’s organisations, trade unions and political parties here on Monday. Representatives of various trade unions and people’s organisations staged a dharna at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, demanding dismissal of the Union Minister Ajay Mishra, and arrest of his son Ashish, who they alleged had deliberately asked the convoy to be run over the farmers. Trade Unions and People’s Representatives JAC chairman M. Jaggu Naidu alleged that the Minister’s son, who was in the convoy, had opened fire on the farmers and the convoy of cars ran over them. He demanded a probe by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court into the incident. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader and corporator B. Ganga Rao, CITU leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar and B. Jagan, Rythu Sangham district president G. Nayana Babu and YSRTUC leaders were among those who participated in the protest. A candle light rally was taken out by the Jagadamba zone committee of CPI(M) demanding a probe by sitting Judge of the Supreme Court and action against the accused. CPI(M) leader Y. Raju alleged that the Union government, which failed to bear the heat of the farmers’ protests in Delhi, was indulging in direct attacks on them. He called upon the participants not to be cowed down by such attacks and threats but to continue the fight till the Centre repealed the farm laws. Party leaders Subba Rao, Chandramouli, Santosh and Narasinga Rao were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-stage-dharna-over-death-of-farmers-in-up/article36833451.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abducted minor traced after 6 years in Rajasthan||The police have solved the kidnap case of a 13-year-old girl after six years in Visakhapatnam district. After a painstaking investigation, a police team led by Chodavaram circle inspector Ilyas Mohammed arrested the accused and rescued the victim from Alwar in Rajasthan. The accused is being brought from Alwar on a transit warrant on Tuesday. The police said that the girl, a Class VIII student, had gone missing from her home in Chodavaram on June 26, 2015. She was allegedly sweet-talked and kidnapped by a teacher in her school K. Tirupathi Rao, a resident of Hiramandalam of Srikakulam district. The accused was married in the past and had one daughter. He later deserted his family and moved to Chodavaram and had been teaching in a school where he befriended this girl and reportedly compelled her to run away from home with him. The girl ran away from the house after midnight with five tolas of gold and Rs. 50,000. Thereafter, there was no trace of her or Tirupathi Rao. “We did find some clues leading to Bilaspur and Surat and finally, we zeroed in on Alwar after getting hold of some vital clues,” said SP B. Krishna Rao. Police said the girl was taken to Delhi and then to Alwar, where they had been staying till date. The girl was now a mother of two, a five-year-old girl and a three-year-old boy. It is learnt that use of PAN card and bank transactions had led the probe team to Tirupathi Rao. The police have booked cases under IPC Sections 363 and 366 and efforts are on to book cases under POCSO and IPC Section 376.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abducted-ap-minor-girl-traced-after-six-years/article36832825.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 persons, 3 juveniles held on charge of dacoity||The Dwaraka police nabbed two persons and three juveniles on the charges of dacoity, here on Monday. The police said that six persons noticed a lonely person R. Ashwin Kumar, near the RTC Complex, in the early hours on Sunday and threatened him for money. When Kumar refused to pay, three of them attacked Kumar and fled from the spot, said ACP (CCS) Shravan Kumar. Based on the complaint, the police nabbed B. Manoj Kumar and E. Naven. The police have launched a manhunt for Lova Raju. The juveniles in conflict with law will be produced before the Juvenile Board. Meanwhile, an auto driver Poti Venkata Rao (48) was arrested by the Fourth Town police for stealing gold chain worth Rs. 90,000. Two arrested The MVP Colony police arrested two persons T. Satyanarayana and B. Raju on the charge of snatching a gold chain from a woman. The police said that the duo followed a woman on October 3 morning on a bike when she was returning to home from a milk outlet. The duo sprinkled chill powder on her face and snatched her gold chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-persons-3-juveniles-held-on-charge-of-dacoity/article36833455.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena corporator stages protest||Jana Sena Party floor leader in GVMC Council Peethala Murthy Yadav on Monday staged a protest at the Telugu Thalli statue at Maddilapalem against the mortgaging of government properties in the city. He alleged that the State government had mortgaged about 13 government lands and properties in Visakhapatnam city for Rs. 1,600 crore with the State Bank of India. He pointed out that the properties may be sealed by the banks if the government defers on payment. “It will be shameful to see government properties such as Circuit House, being seized due to deferrals,” he said. He alleged that the State government was unable to run the show and has already entered into a debt trap. It is mortgaging prime government properties to fund its welfare schemes, he said. He ssaid that the JSP will soon mobilise people to raise its voice against this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-corporator-stages-protest/article36833454.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 private buses seized for non-payment of taxes||As many as 11 private travel buses were booked by in a special drive, conducted by the officials of the Transport Department, in the district on Monday as part of the State-wide drive on vehicles plying without payment of taxes. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Rajaratnam said in a statement that five buses were seized for non-payment of taxes. He warned the operators against collecting higher fares from travellers during Dasara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-private-buses-seized-for-non-payment-of-taxes/article36833452.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth dies in road accident||A young man, Ravi, died in a road accident near Janakiramapuram of Golugonda mandal in the district on Sunday night. The police said that the accident occurred when S. Ravi of Janakiramapuram along with others was going on a motorcycle to Daramatam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-dies-in-road-accident/article36833453.ece
05 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Dronamraju Srinivas||Rich tributes were paid to former VMRDA chairman Dronamraju Srinivas on his first death anniversary here on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, the YSRCP leaders said the Dronamraju family strove hard for the welfare of people whether it was in power or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-dronamraju-srinivas/article36833456.ece
05 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre should get credit for renovation of schools, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Tekkali convener and party’s political feedback committee State member Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar on Monday alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was trying to gain undue credit for renovation of schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme, as the Centre was allocating huge amounts of funds for strengthening the education sector. In a press release, Mr. Udaybhaskar said that the Union government was sanctioning 30% of funds under the Sarva Siksha Abhiyan programme. Midday meal scheme “The Union government is sanctioning funds separately for effective implementation of the midday meal programme which will be renamed as PM Poshan Shakti Nirman very soon. We are thankful to the Centre for giving a uniform name for the scheme. It would certainly enable people to know the initiative of the Centre. It will also be a befitting reply for regional parties which are trying to show the Central government in a poor light,” said Mr. Udaybhaskar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-should-get-credit-for-renovation-of-schools-says-bjp/article36833291.ece
05 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INTUC stages protest over death of U.P. farmers||Indian National Trade Unioin Congress (INTUC) district president Modili Srinivas on Monday condemned the ‘brutal murder’ of farmers who had been agitating against the Farm Acts. Along with several activists of trade unions, he staged a protest at the Clock Tower here over the death of four farmers in Lakhmipur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. “The farmers were deliberately run over by the convoy of the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. Such a brutal incident had never happened. Cutting across party lines, all the leaders, activists and common people should condemn it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intuc-stages-protest-over-death-of-up-farmers/article36833293.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crack down on drug menace: CM to officials||Reviewing the Disha Bill and Disha app, the Chief Minister said it was not fair to keep it pending for long even after the Assembly had passed the Bill and asked the officials to look into the issue and take action accordingly. “I want Collectors and SPs to take make sure that every woman downloads Disha app. Ensure that volunteers are involved along with women police for conducting an extensive campaign on the use of Disha app. Victims should come forward to file a complaint. Officials should focus on adopting a flexible system to ensure a victim has secure conditions,” he said. Officials informed the Chief Minister that 10 courts were hearing POCSO cases and 12 more for crimes against women. A new court was being set up in Kadapa. The Chief Minister said the vacancies of public prosecutors should be filled up immediately. The officials explained that while it used to take 189 days to investigate crimes against women in 2017, now a chargesheet was being filed in 42 days because of the Disha provisions, where zero FIRs were also being registered. The police officials informed the Chief Minister that earlier there was a situation of having to wait for a year to get a DNA report but now the report would come in two days due to the increase in forensic facilities. The officials said 2,652 cases were handled through Disha One Stop Centres till September and 51,053 CC cameras were installed in temples. The Chief Minister asked the officials to ensure justice to victims at the earliest and to act with a humanitarian perspective when unfortunate incidents occurred against women and that compensation is provided to affected families within a month of an incident. He asked the officials to prepare an action plan for prevention of cybercrimes by appointing competent officers and including efficient lawyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-every-woman-downloads-disha-app-cm/article36833254.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Troubled waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/troubled-waters/article36833441.ece
05 October 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Dummugudem police organise free eye check-up camp for adivasis||Lending a helping hand to those in need of eyecare, Dummugudem police on Monday organised a free eye check-up camp in Dummugudem for the benefit of adivasis living in far flung tribal villages in the Agency mandal. hadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police Dr G Vineeth inaugurated the camp. The free eye screening camp was held under the overall supervision of SP Sunil Dutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dummugudem-police-organise-free-eye-check-up-camp-for-adivasis/article36833320.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High bed occupancy at Niloufer back in focus||The high bed occupancy at Niloufer Hospital has come into focus again after AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi raised the issue during the ongoing Assembly session on Monday. It was published in these columns in mid-September that the 1,400-bed hospital is nearing full capacity. Almost three weeks later, the situation continues to be the same with nearly 90% of the beds (1,250 out of 1,400) occupied on Monday. Doctors said 250 out of the 1,400 beds are dedicated to pregnant women. “The remaining are paediatric beds (for children). It is not just dengue patients. Since Niloufer is a tertiary care hospital, children suffering from severe diseases and those in need of immediate medical attention are admitted here. Besides, parents opt for the health facility even if their children catch a flu. You will see a kid with viral fever right beside another kid suffering from a severe disease,” said a senior doctor. Monsoon factor Other doctors said the bed occupancy increases during monsoon given the rise in respiratory issues, seasonal diseases and viral fevers. “The situation will ease in the coming days as the monsoon is set to end. Construction of a prefabricated structure on top of the old building has begun. Around 400 more beds will be added when the works are complete,” administrative officials at the hospital said. Mr Owaisi has requested a visit to Niloufer Hospital and Fever Hospital in Nallakunta, which Minister T. Hairsh Rao agreed to. Senior officials from the Health department were directed to review the hospitals. Hope for improvement Doctors at Niloufer Hospital hoped the visits would help bring about an improvement in the health facility. “The old building of the hospital needs repairs. Hope it will be addressed,” said another doctor. Fever Hospital superintendent K. Shankar said only about 100 of the 330 beds at the hospital are occupied. “Out-patient numbers are 800-1,000 a day, and around 500 of them have viral fever. Regarding dengue admission, we admit the patients based on severity of the disease,” said Dr Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-bed-occupancy-at-niloufer-back-in-focus/article36833307.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Works on to safeguard, strengthen 127 lakes: KTR||The State government has initiated works for safeguarding and strengthening 127 out of the 185 lakes in the jurisdiction of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with a cost of Rs. 407.3 crore. Development of 48 out of the 127 identified lakes has been completed and the government has spent Rs. 218 crore on the works so far. The GHMC took up works on beautification of 63 lakes with an estimated Rs. 94.17 crore of which, works relating to 48 had been completed while they are in progress in respect of remaining 15. The GHMC took up restoration of 19 lakes under the Mission Kakatiya with an estimated cost of Rs. 282.63 crore in addition to development and flood damaged repair works for 45 lakes with an estimated cost of Rs. 30.5 crore. Work on these lakes was progressing at a brisk pace, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao told the Legislative Assembly on Monday. Replying to a query during the Question Hour, he said the government had resolved to create a special division in the GHMC with the appointment of a special commissioner for lakes. The special commissioner would be responsible for developing lake-wise master plan and he would constitute special teams for preventing further encroachment of lakes. The special commissioner would also look into the relief and rehabilitation activities, he said in reply to queries raised by MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi. The State Cabinet had recently sanctioned Rs. 3,866 crore for construction of sewerage treatment plants and this would ensure 100% treatment of sewerage in the coming days. “Around 700 million litres a day is being treated at present against the 1,600 MLD generated every day. The city will have 100% capacity once the STPs are set up,” he said. To another query on the location of the 31 sewerage treatment plants proposed, he said these STPs would be in the vicinity of the lakes/tanks as constructions would not be permitted within the full tank level of the respective water body. On the extension of nalas, he said a multi-disciplinary approach was needed for the works and that steps were underway to ensure effective coordination between different departments in this direction. The Minister said he would convene a meeting of the legislators from the GHMC limits on Wednesday to chalk out action plan on restoration and strengthening of the lakes. Asked about the rehabilitation of the families that would be affected in the process, he said the government would consider setting aside a part of two bedroom houses being constructed for these families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/works-on-to-safeguard-strengthen-127-lakes-ktr/article36833318.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Any third wave is in our hands’||Unless a new SARS-CoV-2 variant, which is more infectious and virulent than the Delta is allowed to emerge with “carelessness disregarding face masks, hosting indoor events and crowding”, any third wave can be “contained and managed within a particular outbreak area by rigorous testing, tracing and isolating”, observes eminent scientist and director of Tata Institute for Genetics and Society Rakesh Mishra. Virus under watch “Delta with several fold higher infectious nature has created havoc during the second wave in India and dominated all over the world. Any variant to replace this has to be more infectious. We were caught unprepared then for such a surge, but now we are keeping the virus under watch through genome surveillance,” he explains. Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium  (INSACOG) of 28 institutions has been getting samples from infected patients from different parts of the country but with reduced cases, this number too has reduced, though, for the moment, it is sufficient enough for the scientists to keep track of the mutations, which at an average are two every month. Second wave haunts “Not every mutation is dangerous but there is a chance of a vaccine-breaking variant from emerging if we throw caution to the wind and rush towards normalcy forgetting the period when hospitals were filled and people were running around for oxygen and drugs,” points out Dr. Mishra. Incidentally, research showed that while the Delta variant is “super” infectious, affecting more people in a short time frame, the symptoms and mortalities are more or less the same as any other variant. However, the issue was more people needing hospitalisation putting a lot of pressure on the available healthcare systems, he says. Cases falling Dr Mishra, the former director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology, explains that the cases have been coming down in the past few months and with vaccination combined with high sero-positivity in the population, “we are kind of protected” unless an “unusual variant” comes up or is “allowed to creep in with our behaviour”. Vaccines are not a “guarantee” but face masks are, therefore “if we keep using the masks we can defeat the coronavirus”. Governments and others should continue to emphasise on COVID-appropriate norms and with schools opening, mandatory face masks, vaccinating teaching and non-teaching staff on priority, staggered timings, flexible online/offline options are the way forward, adds the top scientist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/any-third-wave-is-in-our-hands/article36833310.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to release dues of Aarogyasri soon, says Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has assured the Legislative Assembly that the government would soon release Rs. 160 crore dues to private hospitals under the Aarogyasri health scheme. The government had released Rs. 4,138 crore for Aarogyasri over the past seven years and only Rs. 160 crore was due for release. In addition, steps are under way for development of ICU wards and ventilators for paediatric care as part of health infrastructure improvement. The Minister was replying to a query raised by MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi during the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly on Monday. Mr. Owaisi expressed concern over the increasing cases of dengue and malaria due to the mosquito menace and wanted the government to initiate necessary steps to check them. Mr. Harish Rao said the government was taking up regular precautionary measures to control vector-borne diseases and 43 labs had been roped in for testing dengue, chikungunya and other viral fevers. The spread of dengue was lesser this year compared to the previous years. As against the 6,362 cases reported in 2018 and 13,361 cases in 2019, as many as 4,694 cases had been reported during the current year so far. ‘Dengue not widespread’ “There is incidence, but not widespread,” the Minister said. He informed that the State Cabinet had approved Rs. 133 crore recently for the improvement of paediatric health care and the amount would be effectively utilised for strengthening the infrastructure. Mr. Owaisi lamented that though treatment for dengue had been covered under Aarogyasri, private hospitals were not admitting patients owing to huge dues owed by the government. Some private hospitals were also charging exorbitant amounts for treating the patients. The Minister, however, asserted that necessary measures would be taken to check the hospitals from charging excessively. “We will review and monitor the charges levied by private hospitals,” he said. The MIM floor leader also expressed concern about the D2 variant of dengue which was more severe and wanted the government to take a serious view of the situation. “The staff in Basti Dawakhanas and other medical institutions are busy with COVID-19 vaccination. Vaccination is important, but other health issues are equally important,” he said. To a query on the absence of infrastructure in government hospitals like Niloufer Hospital and Fever Hospital (Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical Diseases), Mr. Harish Rao said a delegation of senior officials would be deputed to study the conditions in the hospitals and recommend measures for strengthening the infrastructure there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-release-dues-of-aarogyasri-soon-says-harish/article36833313.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tourism circuit with Ramappa temple, other key sites planned||The State government is planning to develop a tourism circuit covering important sites such as the Ramappa (Rudreshwara) Temple, which was recently declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO. Accordingly, development of facilities were taken up in Mulugu, Laknavaram, Tadvai, Medaram, Malluru and Bogatha waterfalls to meet the requirements of tourists. Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud said the government was expecting more tourist footfall in the State following the UNESCO tag for Ramappa temple. It was planned to create more tourist amenities like additional accommodation, water sports, adventure activities, convention centres, theme parks etc. The government was exploring different schemes of the Centre accordingly, he said in a reply to a query during the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly on Monday. The Minister, however, replied in the negative when asked about plans that were being formulated for protection of Ramappa temple claiming that it was a protected monument under Archaeological Survey of India. Steps for protection of the monument had been initiated by the ASI Hyderabad Circle officials. “We are forwarding our plans to the ASI, but they are not cooperative,” he said. He said the State had been witnessing a steady rise in tourist footfall since its formation and steps were accordingly being taken to cater to the increasing needs. To attract more number of domestic and international tourists, the government was planning to showcase Ramappa temple as an attractive tourist destination in the forthcoming roadshows and tourism exhibitions within the country and abroad. Plans were also under way to develop tourism circuits, one each in the 10 erstwhile districts of the State, to harness tourism potential, and facilities were being created in line with the plans. 629 bridges sanctioned Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said the government had taken up works on 629 bridges in different parts of the State at a cost of Rs. 3,050 crore. These bridges were sanctioned after the formation of the State and works on 372 bridges had been completed so far. Of the total bridges, 384 were planned under State roads, 50 under Nabard funds, 43 under RDF, 33 under left wing extremist-affected areas and 119 under non-plan works of Roads and Buildings department. The highest of Rs. 2,312 crore was being spent on bridges on State roads. Works on the remaining 257 bridges was targeted to be completed by June 2022, and they were progressing on a brisk pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourism-circuit-covering-ramappa-temple-other-key-locations-planned/article36833315.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sustainability Summit begins||TiE Sustainability Summit 2021 got under way on Monday with speakers at its inauguration, from the corporate world, government and members of the diplomatic corps, seeking to highlight how technology will help sharpen focus on sustainability while offering growth prospects for enterprises. Addressing the three-day event’s opening virtually, Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani said the world needed motivated entrepreneurs now more than before to help solve the biggest challenges humans have perhaps ever faced. On specific opportunities around sustainability, he said the world’s most powerful countries will lay the foundation for a series of global policy changes at the upcoming COP 26 summit in Glasgow in November. “I believe these will be transformational and accelerate economic opportunities arising out of the global effort to combat climate change,” he said, adding as technologies evolve rapidly these opportunities will translate into trillions of dollars of investments. It will include next generation high efficiency solar panels, low carbon materials that make the largest offshore wind turbines affordable, main streaming of carbon capture technologies, various fit-for-purpose battery technologies, algorithm-driven smarter and distributed grids, electric mobility, and hydrogen related technologies. Of them, the game changing combination model for sustainability is that of solar generation and hydrogen production, he added. Over the next decade, the group will invest over $20 billion in renewable energy generation, its overall organic and inorganic investments across green energy value chain being $50-70 billion. Ambassador of Costa Rica Claudio Ansorena said tech transfer from developed countries to developing nations becomes a crucial component of climate action plan. It is in this context a coalition of India, Israel and Costa Rica that the summit sought to create becomes important. Telangana Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan listed various measures of the State government to improve greenery, irrigation, agriculture and power supply situation. TiE Hyderabad and TiE Israel entered into an a MoU to foster business collaborations. TiE also announced Rs. 15 crore grant to support rural innovations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sustainability-summit-begins/article36833364.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protests against Priyanka Gandhi’s arrest||The Congress party ranks staged protests across Telangana on Monday against the arrest of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadhra, when she was on her way to console farmers who were injured during the Lakhimpur Kheri incidents in Uttar Pradesh following farmers’ protesting against three farm laws on Sunday. Working president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) M. Mahesh Kumar Goud, Nayini Rajender Reddy, E. Komuraiah and others, speaking at Gandhi Bhavan, alleged that son of Union Minister of State for Home had killed four farmers protesting against the farm laws by running his car over them. Instead of taking action against those responsible, the police there had arrested AICC leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadhra who was on her way to console the injured farmers. Tension prevailed at Nampally, when several Congress activists led by Mr. Mahesh Goud tried to proceed towards the State BJP office, located a few hundred metres away from Gandhi Bhavan, to stage a protest against the Lakhimpur incidents and demanding the resignation of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra. A few Congress activists tried to barge into the BJP office by gate-crashing, but they were prevented by the police and arrested. In Sangareddy, another working president of TPCC T. Jayaprakash Reddy was arrested by the police when the party activists led by him staged a rasta roko and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Karimnagar, former MP Ponnam Prabhakar staged a protest. Meanwhile, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy condemned the arrest of Ms. Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh and demanded removal of the Union Minister of State from the Cabinet. He also condemned the arrests of Congress activists in Telangana and demanded action against those responsible for the Lakhimpur deaths as also withdrawal of the draconian farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protests-against-priyanka-gandhis-arrest/article36833327.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi wants minorities to be treated on a par with SCs/STs||MIM Legislative Party leader Akbaruddin Owaisi has questioned the discriminatory stipulation with regard to income limit for SC, ST, OBC and Minorities, vis-a-vis the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), when it comes to applicability of schemes. As per the government orders, for a person to be considered as belonging to EWS, the family income from all sources should be below Rs. 8 lakh, whereas for other sections, the limit is Rs. 1 lakh in rural areas and Rs. 2 lakh in urban, he pointed out, and sought equalising the income limit to Rs. 8 lakh for all sections. During his address on minority welfare in the State Legislative Assembly on Monday, Mr. Owaisi has made an impassioned plea for treatment of minority communities on par with the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, in view of the educational and economic backwardness among Muslims who constitute large chunk of minorities in the State. While the promise for 12 % reservations is yet to be implemented, budgetary allocations and spending too have nothing to boast of, he said. Since 2014-15, the government has allocated Rs. 9,448 crore for Minority Welfare, but spent only Rs. 6199 crore, which is less than what had been spent on Haritha Haram during the same period, he said. Subsidy from the Minority Finance Corporation has been totally stopped since 2016-17. More than 1.5 lakh loan applications had been pending up to 2015-16, of which 90 % have not been granted. A total of 804 orders were issued for construction of mosques, compound walls and graveyards between 2015 and 2019, but not one paisa has been released so far. Chairman posts of all the minority institutions are lying vacant, and Official Languages Commission has no Urdu speaking person as member. None of the newly appointed Vice-Chancellors for the State universities is from minority communities. Telangana State Public Service Commission has no representation of minorities, he pointed out, even while praising the government’s schemes for minority communities. Speaking of educational backwardness among Muslims, Mr. Owaisi sought permanent buildings for Telangana Minority Residential Educational Institutions, and upgradation of the schools to degree colleges. While quotas are reserved in Hyderabad Public School for SCs and STs, no such facility is available for minority students, he said, and demanded skill development training for the latter too in cracking tests such as TOEFL, GRE and IELTS, for overseas admission. Applications for overseas scholarships should be accepted twice every year, in tandem with the admission seasons, he demanded. Fee reimbursement dues are pending since 2014-15, due to which colleges are not issuing certificates, rendering overseas education an unfulfilled dream for minorities. A total of 56,653 applications for fee reimbursement await disbursement, he said. Bills passed Two Bills have been passed by the Legislative Assembly on Monday through voice vote. The first Bill was for enactment of the Telangana State Prevention of Touting and Malpractices against Tourists and Travellers Act, 2021 and the second Bill was to amend the Telangana GST Act, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-wants-minorities-to-be-treated-on-a-par-with-scssts/article36833334.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL posts 67% growth in revenue from 2021-22 H1 sales||Leaving behind the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on its performance last year, which was estimated over Rs. 5,000 crore, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has regained its strength with the help of the recovery of economic activity and increase in the demand for energy and posted sales of Rs. 11,920 crore in the first half of the 2021-22 fiscal. It is 67% higher compared to Rs. 7,131 crore sales achieved during the first six months of the last (2020-21) financial year. The growth includes 81% in coal sales and 19% in energy sales. In monetary terms, the growth in revenue from sales was Rs. 4,789 crore higher in the first half this year, compared to last year. According to the company officials, the company has realised Rs. 10,071 crore revenue during the first six months of this fiscal against Rs. 5,573 crore achieved during the same period last year. The 81% growth in coal sales translates into revenue of Rs. 4,499 crore higher than last year for the six-month period. The company management has attributed the growth not only to the increase in demand but to the hard work of the workers and employees, focus on marketing strategies and COVID-19 control measures to prevent its spread and treat its employees from virus infection. It has spend Rs. 73 crore on vaccination and treatment of infected staff with improved infrastructure. In terms of coal production, the company has achieved 65% growth, 75% in coal dispatches and 26% in the overburden removal during the first six months of 2021-22 compared to the same period of the last fiscal. The officials stated that the company has extracted 29.94 million tonnes (MT) of coal in six months this year against 18.1 MT last year. Dispatches of coal were at 31.29 MT in the first six months of this fiscal against 17.9 MT during the same period last year. Similarly, the removal overburden during the April-September period this year was 166 million cubic meters (mcm) against 132 mcm removed during the same period last year. The company management has complimented its workers for achieving 4.54 MT of coal production in September in spite of heavy rains against 3.34 MT achieved in September last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-posts-67-growth-in-revenue-from-2021-22-h1-sales/article36833324.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to draw up action plan from padayatra petitions||People from different walks of life have made as many as 16,000 representations on various grievances to the Telangana State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar during the course of his first phase of the ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ which concluded on the weekend at Husnabad in Siddipet. The party has decided to scan through these representations and come out with an action plan to tackle these in order to provide succour to the complainants, informed general secretary G. Premender Reddy at a press conference on Monday. Giving details of the party officer bearers meeting held under the leadership of Mr. Sanjay Kumar, he said the party has decided to take up the second phase of the ‘padayatra’ post the Huzurabad bypoll with the likely route map to be decided soon. Despite the ruling Telangana Rastra Samithi (TRS) trying “every trick” to create obstacles in the campaign and spending colossal amounts, the overall feeling was that the people were with the BJP and Eatala Rajender is poised for a big win. Money spent “The bypoll could well enter into the Guinness Book of Records for the money being spent with Rs. 300 crore already spent and another Rs. 1,000 crore in the form of various welfare schemes by the ruling party. TRS is trying to stall our electioneering by threatening function halls owners and removing power during our meetings. But, these will not deter us and people are not ready to accept the daily lies being petered out by senior Minister T. Harish Rao,” he charged. The “hollow” governance of TRS got exposed during the ‘padayatra’ with complaints pouring in from all sections of the people about lack of 2-bedroom housing, no support to farmers, no stipend to unemployed, no jobs to the youth, no land for the Dalits and so on. “The regime, having cheated people all these years, is in a shock about the response to Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s programme,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-draw-up-action-plan-on-padayatra-petitions/article36833331.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meet on environment, education next month||Pure Earth Foundation (PEF), a charitable society, is organising the 3rd Pure Earth Environment Conference (PEEC) on November 27 in the virtual mode. PEEC is a bi-annual conference to promote research and innovation in the field of environment, natural resources and social related issues The focal theme for PEEC-2021 is ‘Environment and Education’. Under - graduate, post graduate or research students in science, engineering and social subjects are invited to share their techno-scientific and innovative ideas through paper presentations. A selection committee will scrutinise those and the selected papers will be presented at the conference. The best two presentations will be awarded cash prizes. “Our aim is to encourage a serious discussion around environmental conservation and sustainability, which is an urgent issue of our times. As they say, there is no Planet B, hence our focus is to protect our Mother Earth and its natural resources from further deterioration,” said former DGP and PEF president M.V.Krishna Rao IPS (retired). “The PEEC is to address the need of awareness and education such as climate change and its impact on human life. Engaging youth in this discussion becomes pivotal, and we hope to inculcate a deep concern for the environment through this conference,” said vice-president of PEF and regional director at Centre for Environment and Development, K Jayachandra. Those interested can write to pureearthfoundation@gmail.com or call 95739-47170 for details, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meet-on-environment-education-next-month/article36833304.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monsoon can be forecast much in advance: study||A new study from the University of Hyderabad (UoH) in collaboration with the University of Exeter (UK) claims to have found out decadal prediction skills for the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) to enable monsoon forecast for the next 5-10 years in advance. Scientists analysed retrospective decadal forecasts, with initial conditions from 1960 to 2011 from existing four models and found that two models — MIROC5 from Japan, and CanCM4 from Canada — show significant prediction skills for up to 10 years, with strongest leads up to two years. Interestingly, the predictability of IOD comes from the subsurface ocean signals in the Southern Ocean. The El Nino-Southern Oscillation events, which occur in the tropical pacific, are also well known as a major climate driver. IOD affects the global climate with a positive phase characterised by above normal sea surface temperature in the equatorial eastern Indian Ocean, and below normal temperatures in the western equatorial Indian Ocean. Strong positive IOD events in 2019, 2007, 1997,1994, 1967 1963, 1961, etc. are associated with strong rains along the Indian monsoon trough region. Conversely, it also causes below normal rainfall in Indonesia and Australia, heat waves in Japan and Europe, and East Africa, and fires in Australia and Indonesia. The latest extreme positive IOD occurred in 2019 summer, contributing to the unprecedented wildfire season in Australia, floods in East Africa and above normal rainfall and floods in India. The impact can be seen all the way till Europe and Americas as well. Negative IOD affects the Indian monsoon trough. In fact, this was prominent till August and is a likely factor for the below normal rainfall in north India. While predicting IOD well in advance would be beneficial for society, lead prediction skills are limited to a few months with just 1-2 models showing skills to predict the eastern Indian Ocean temperatures at the lead of a few seasons to a year. Scientists say better decadal prediction skills are possible given the improved models and larger number of observations assimilated. The research was carried out by professor K. Ashok, research student Feba Francis, and Satish Shetye, a former chair professor of Centre for Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, UoH, in collaboration with Mat Collins of University of Exeter, said a release. It was featured in ‘Frontiers in Climate’ journal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monsoon-can-be-forecast-much-in-advance-study/article36833311.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post of lakes special commissioner created||The government has, through an order on Monday, created the post of Special Commissioner (Lakes), under GHMC for comprehensive management of lakes and water bodies. Terms of reference for the special commissioner, who will report directly to the Special Chief Secretary of Municipal Administration & Urban Development, include preparation of master plan for each lake or water body, taking into consideration its FTL, buffer zone and green zone, managing the water flow into and from the lake scientifically, managing the sewage and construction of STPs, preventing further encroachments, initiating relief and rehabilitation for all the dwellers inside the FTL or buffer, protecting and strengthening the bunds and keeping sluices in working condition, beautification of lake precincts and greenery in buffer area, formation of lake wise protection committees and ensuring their regular meetings, and taking up regular cleaning of lakes. The special commissioner will coordinate with other relevant departments including Revenue, Irrigation, HMDA, HMWS&SB and others. The order mandates the Special Commissioner to take up protection, rejuvenation and beautification of the lakes through corporate social responsibility funds by involving corporates, and also work with GHMC or HMDA to link protection and development of water bodies with the multi-storied buildings or upcoming layouts nearby. The Special Commissioner may also take up lakes outside GHMC, and within ORR which might have a bearing on the 185 lakes within GHMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-of-lakes-special-commissioner-created/article36833365.ece
05 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor girl found dead||A 17-year-old girl was found dead in her house at Meerpet here on Sunday night. The victim, Rendurthi Koushiki, a second-year Intermediate student, ended her life by suicide. According to police, she hanged herself from a ceiling fan in a room where her seven-year-old sister was asleep. The girl’s mother Lavanya reprimanded her for playing games on mobile phone. “When Ms. Lavanya asked her to stop playing games and finish dinner before going to bed, Koushiki locked herself inside the room and resorted to the extreme step,” Meerpet police said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered and body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.  (Contact number of Roshni, Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre: 914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-girl-found-dead/article36833366.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC permits business at Gaddiannaram market till October 18||Telangana High Court on Monday passed interim orders permitting fruit growers and commission agents to carry out their trade transactions till this October 18 at Gaddiannaram fruit market, which remained shut since September 26 this year. A bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and T. Vinod Kumar directed the State government to create all infrastructural facilities at Batasingaram where the new fruit market is being shifted. The State government decided to shift the market to Batasingaram (which is nearly 28 kms away from Gaddiannaram), having planned to construct a super-speciality hospital at Gaddiannaram market site. The market is closed since September 26. All the fruit growers and commission agents were instructed to shift to Batasingaram within a month from September 1. Challenging this, Wholesale Fruit Commission Agents Association moved the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-permits-business-at-gaddiannaram-market-till-october-18/article36833367.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM takes a dig at Centre for neglecting TS||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has criticized the Central government for neglecting the representations made by the Telangana government for augmenting infrastructure and giving boost to tourism development in the State. The State has its heritage structures like forts, natural tourist spots like waterfalls and glorious history and culture. These resources had been neglected for 58 long years by the governments of the erstwhile undivided State, he said. The Chief Minister intervened in the debate on Ramappa temple which was recognized as UNESCO world heritage site when the issue came up during the Question Hour in the Assembly on Monday. Airstrips The State made several representations seeking permission for development of airstrips so that visitors from other States come here to understand the history of the State. “But, the Centre is neglecting Telangana. I fought with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah against the negligent attitude towards Telangana relating to nominations for Padma Sri,” he said. The State had several historical locations and detailed exercise was underway to study inscriptions and understand the history of the State. The government could not concentrate on the sector owing to the priority accorded to irrigation, power and other crucial issues. Godavari tourism “There is a lot of scope for development of tourism. Godavari river for instance has become live over 160 km following the focus on irrigation development and this can be developed,” he said. Mr. Rao said the government would constitute a committee of MLAs under the chairmanship of Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud. Members could suggest important locations, those neglected during the united A.P., natural tourist spots and places where tourism potential had not been harnessed to full extent so that development of these places could be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-takes-a-dig-at-centre-for-neglecting-ts/article36833333.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discoms’ revenue at Rs. 30,330 cr. in 2020-21||Consumption of energy in Telangana was 56,111 million units (mu) during 2020-21, Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy told the Legislative Council on Monday. In response to a question raised by TRS member T. Chinnapa Reddy, the Minister said the consumption by domestic and commercial categories of consumers was 17,935 mu and by industrial and agriculture, including lift schemes categories, was 38,176 mu. He explained that the peak load on the transmission system at the time of State formation in 2014 was just 6,660 megawatt (mw) and it went up to 13,686 mw in May this year. On the revenue of Discoms the Minister said it was Rs. 30,330 crore in 2020-21 and till August 21 this year (2021-22) it was Rs. 13,865 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discoms-revenue-at-rs-30330-cr-in-2020-21/article36833328.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||207 new COVID cases in TS||A total of 207 new cases of COVID-19 were detected in the State on Monday, with the highest of 61 infections being reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region. Other districts that logged double-digit cases included Karimnagar (15), Medchal-Malkajgiri (14), Khammam (13) and Rangareddy (12). With the new cases, the State’s total infection tally has touched 6,66,753. No infection was recorded in four districts including Nirmal and Narayanpet. On the day, 43,135 samples were examined and the results of 1,316 persons were awaited. Two more COVID patients have died, taking the death toll to 3,923.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/207-new-covid-cases-in-ts/article36833309.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over Rs. 10 cr. approved for refurbishing TSRTC’s fleet||Give its ageing fleet, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has issued guidelines for maintenance and repairs of its buses. Funds to the tune of Rs. 10.64 crore have been approved. According to a communication sent from the transport juggernaut’s mechanical engineering department to all regional managers, buses have been categorised into three types and will be repaired in accordance with the guidelines. Category-I includes buses which are due for replacement. Repairs such as body repairs, and repainting of destination boards will be taken up. Category-II buses include those which have around five years left before they are replaced. A host of repairs such as replacement of windscreens and damaged window frames, among other works will be taken up. Category – III buses are relatively newer buses and repairs include replacement of side markers, LED lights, and switchboards. As many as 24 of the 170 Rajdhani buses have already been refurbished at the Bus Body-building Unit in Miyapur. Further, 62 of 589 Super Luxury buses have also been refurbished. Regional managers and work managers have been directed to submit compliance reports every fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-rs-10-cr-approved-for-refurbishing-tsrtcs-ageing-fleet/article36833316.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High demand for indigenous coal, says CMD||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to scale up its production to meet the growing demand of coal, particularly in the backdrop of increasing demand for energy and rise in the prices of imported coal ranging from 30% to 100% based on the quality and origin (country) of the coal. Chairman and Managing Director of the coal company N. Sridhar held a virtual meeting with all area general managers and directors of SCCL on Monday underscoring the need to scale up coal extraction. He stated that major thermal power stations in the neighbouring Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh had coal reserves only for 2-3 days and there was also demand for Singareni coal from 15 major thermal power stations in other States. Production of coal has to be maintained at at least 1.9 lakh tonnes a day with equal quantity of dispatches as the rains are receding. He also wanted the the area GMs to focus on the overburden removal of at least 1.3 million cubic metres every day along with production and dispatches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-indigenous-coal-growing/article36833325.ece
05 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi demands probe||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi demanded an independent judicial probe into incident at Lakhimpur Kheri district in UP on Sunday.. Taking to Twitter Mr. Owaisi said that the incident is a breakdown of law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, and blamed the Yogi Adityanath government for it. Seeking an independent investigation into the incident, in a series of tweets he said: “Since a Union Minister’s son is allegedly involved, fairness of investigation may come into question. We demand an independent judicial inquiry & compensation to all 8 families. Injured should receive best possible medical care. Repeal farm laws, no more farmers should have to lose their lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-demands-probe/article36833336.ece
05 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nurse found dead||An 18-year-old nurse of a town-based private hospital allegedly committed suicide at her room in a private hostel in Khammam on Monday. Sources said that she took the extreme step unable to bear “constant harassment” by a male colleague in the hospital where she worked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nurse-found-dead/article36833368.ece
05 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kisan rail from Moula Ali, Raichur||South Central Railway (SCR) operated a ‘Kisan Rail’ from suburban railway station Moula Ali to New Jalpaiguri of West Bengal loaded with 15 parcel vans consisting of 361 tonnes of onions on Monday. In another first, cotton bales were also transported from Raichur in Karnataka to Bangaon station, also in West Bengal in 21 wagons covering the long lead distance of 1871 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kisan-rail-from-moula-ali-raichur/article36833330.ece
05 October 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Man drowns in Rayapol tank||One person drowned in Rayapol tank in Siddipet district on Monday. According to sources, on Monday 28-year-old Guni Anjaneyulu, an agricultural labourer in the village, went to the tank along with some relatives to take a bath. After entering water he lost control and slipped into the tank. The police rushed to the spot and roped in swimmers, but could not trace the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-drowns-in-rayapol-tank/article36833335.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||14 new bridges planned across Musi river||Apart from various structures taken up under Strategic Road Development Plan, proposals to the extent of Rs. 612 crore are pending with the government. He listed road development/ expansion/ maintenance works taken up through various agencies in the Old City, and the expenditure thereof. A total of Rs. 261 crore has been allocated for the Old City under the Strategic Nala Development Programme, and 14 out of the 31 new STPs proposed under the recently announced sewerage master plan are in the Old City, he said, stressing on the government’s commitment for development irrespective of the electoral outcomes. Announcing that institutional deliveries in Old City have gone up to 68 % thanks to KCR Kits, Mr. Rao promised to take the request for construction of a new building for Osmania General Hospital to Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao’s notice. Responding to the unanimous demand by Mr. Owaisi, BJP legislator Raja Singh and CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, he assured that the government is committed to extending Metro Rail to Old City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-new-bridges-planned-across-musi/article36833303.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||AAP govt. announces winter action plan to tackle pollution||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a 10-point action plan to combat pollution during winters when the Capital’s air quality reaches hazardous levels every year. Mr. Kejriwal, however, accused the Centre and governments of neighbouring States of not having done anything to stop stubble burning. Apart from appealing that stubble burning be combatted, he also demanded that the Centre and States ensure that vehicles coming to Delhi should be converted to CNG and industries operating in the NCR run on PNG. Measures taken The AAP government had, since coming to power, started supplying electricity 24x7 which had eliminated the use of generator sets, taken concrete steps against dust pollution and shut down two thermal plants operating in the city. “The Delhi government found a solution to stop stubble burning in the form of bio-decomposer. To prevent stubble burning, the bio-decomposer solution will be sprayed throughout Delhi for free by us. If the governments of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh also use this solution properly, then stubble burning pollution can be eliminated,” he said. “We are putting together a total of 75 teams in Delhi. These teams will inspect different locations of construction sites and dust will be controlled by imposing heavy penalties. To stop the burning of garbage, we have started patrolling, wherein 250 teams will find the same and charge fines,” he said. India’s first smog tower, the Chief Minister said, had been set up in Delhi and was showing successful results which would be monitored for a few more days following which a decision on installing more would be taken. Pollution hotspots were being monitored through green war room round the clock while 50 new environment engineers had also been recruited for it. “To control vehicular pollution, 64 roads have been identified where traffic jams are frequently experienced and 500 teams have been set up to check PUC certificates. Petrol-driven vehicles of more than 10 years and diesel-driven vehicles of more than 15 years will be scrapped off,” he said. BJP calls it ‘lies’ Meanwhile, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that the action plan by the government was a “bundle of lies”. A similar plan announced by the government in 2018, Mr. Gupta argued, was yet to have any visible impact on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-govt-announces-winter-action-plan-to-tackle-pollution/article36833028.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||More machines to sweep city roads clean||The Delhi government and other agencies have planned to increase the average length of road swept every day by mechanical sweepers and the number of water sprinklers this winter, compared to last year, an official told The Hindu . Also, as part of the action plan, more teams will be involved in implementing different measures to control air pollution this winter. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that an eco-park is being built to process e-waste, however, the project is yet to be approved and is expected to be completed only by mid-2023, officials said. “The country’s first e-waste eco-park is being built in Delhi on 20 acres. We are setting this up to curb pollution caused by e-waste,” the Chief Minister’s office said in a statement. The eco-park is part of a Central government policy and is to be done in other parts of the country as well. Increased length The government plans to increase the average length of road swept per day by mechanical sweepers to 2,200 km this winter compared to 1,895 km last year. For this purpose, the number of mechanical road sweepers (MRS) machines is planned to be increased to 69 from 58 last winter. Similarly, the number of water sprinklers is to be increased to 372 from 328. The air pollution in the city spikes during the winter, chiefly due to a combined effect of stubble burning in the neighbouring States and climatic conditions, which lowers wind speed and mixing height and in turn traps pollutants. The use of sprinklers and MRS machines peaks during the winter in the city and falls after February, as per government data. Both these measures are aimed at reducing road dust, which is one of the major local air pollutants in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/more-machines-to-sweep-city-roads-clean/article36833029.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wrestler Sushil Kumar seeks bail in Chhatrasal Stadium murder case||Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar on Monday moved a Delhi court seeking bail in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case. In his bail application filed by advocate Pradeep Rana, the wrestler stated that he has been falsely implicated and incarcerated in jail since June 2. Vested interest Mr. Kumar’s lawyer stated that the “demise of a budding wrestler has been sensationalised and the same is being exploited against the present applicant by parties with vested interest”. The application further said that “the police left no stone unturned” to present a “false and guilty image” of Mr. Kumar and fed false information to the media to wrongfully establish a connection between him and renowned gangsters. “They [police] had even gone to the point of painting a grotesque image of the accused where he was said to be a gangster himself and even questions were raised against his antecedents,” the application stated. The application alleged that the investigating agency, “to build a false case”, has withheld the statements of witnesses. It also said that the video footage, the police have relied on, has been taken on a phone whose “ownership is a big mystery”. Mr. Kumar, along with others had allegedly assaulted former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar and his friends at the stadium in May over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar later succumbed to the injuries. The Delhi police had filed an FIR against the accused. Additional Sessions Judge Shivaji Anand will hear the bail application on Tuesday.  The police have ‘left no stone unturned’ to present a ‘false and guilty image’ of Sushil Kumar and fed false information to the media Bail application||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wrestler-sushil-kumar-seeks-bail-in-chhatrasal-stadium-murder-case/article36833030.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU receives 30,554 applications on Day 1||Delhi University received 30,554 applications on the first day of admissions under the first cut-off list to various courses offered by colleges of the university till 7 p.m. An admission officer of the university said that of the total applications received, 2,286 applications have been scrutinised and approved by the colleges and 795 students have paid the fees and completed the admission process. Candidates have time till 11.59 p.m. on October 6 to apply for admissions against the first cut-off list on the university’s admission portal. Colleges will complete approvals for admission against the first list by 5 p.m. on October 7 and the last day for payment by candidates is 5 p.m. on October 8. The second list is expected to be released by the university on October 9. Students who have secured admissions in the first cut-off list have the option to cancel and retake it if they clear the cut-off in any of the subsequent cut-off lists. However, students will be able to make this change only once during the admission process against a particular cut-off list. The university said that it may declare a minimum of five cut-off lists depending on the number of vacant seats.  Of the total applications received, 2,286 applications have been scrutinised and approved by the colleges and 795 students have paid the fees and completed the admission process University admission officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-receives-30554-applications-on-day-1/article36833025.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boy abducted by relatives rescued after four days||A 14-year-old boy, allegedly abducted by two of his relatives, was rescued by the police in Outer North Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy. The accused relatives wanted to take revenge from the boy’s maternal uncle, the police said on Monday. DCP (Outer North) Brijendra Yadav said that the accused have been identified as Monu, 20, and Ashok, 23. On October 1, the police received a complaint from the victim’s father that his son, a Class VIII student, had gone missing. A kidnapping case was registered and a team was formed to nab the accused. However, no ransom call was made and there was no word from the kidnappers, the police said. On Sunday night, police officers spotted Monu and Ashok with a countrymade pistol and a live round, Mr. Yadav said, adding that the two were taken for interrogation. Around the same time, the police received a call from a man stating that a boy was held in captivity at a house. “The caller was a passerby who had heard the boy’s cries for help. The locals helped the boy free himself,” Mr. Yadav said. The victim revealed the names of the abductors. “The police realised that the two accused were the same people who were caught earlier,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/boy-abducted-by-relatives-rescued-after-four-days/article36833027.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Plumber kills woman over ‘smoking’||A 45-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a woman for telling him not to smoke near her shop in Dabri on Sunday, the police said. The accused has been identified as Deepak, a plumber. DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said they received a call around 10 p.m. on Sunday that a woman, Vibha, 30, was lying in a pool of blood near her shop. Following this, a team rushed to the spot and took her to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where she was declared brought dead. “The accused was inebriated at that time. The incident occurred when he went to the woman’s shop and started smoking. She told him not to smoke, at which Deepak took a plumbing tool and slit her throat,” an officer said. He then fled the spot but was held soon. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) has been lodged against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plumber-kills-woman-over-smoking/article36833359.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. issues show-cause notice to Ganga Ram Hospital||The Delhi government sent a show-cause notice to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on complaints of the hospital allegedly not treating people from the EWS category. When contacted, a hospital official said, “The allegations in the notice are not true. The authorities are replying to the issues raised and hope the misunderstanding if any should be resolved soon.” Meanwhile, the city reported 34 new cases and zero COVID-19 death in the last 24 hours, said a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The total number of deaths stood at 25,088 and cases at 14,39,000. A total of 34,038 tests were done in a day and that the test positivity rate was 0.10%. Of the total cases, 14,13,514 people have recovered and there are only 398 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-issues-show-cause-notice-to-ganga-ram-hospital/article36833355.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Robber held with huge cache of arms||A 23-year-old man, involved in several cases of robberies, has been arrested with a huge cache of arms by the Delhi police after an exchange of fire in Dwarka in the early hours of Monday. DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said the accused, identified as Deepak, used to supply weapons to several gangs, including the dreaded Saddam Gauri and Vicky gang, in the Capital. The police said that four highly sophisticated pistols and two countrymade pistols with 104 live rounds were seized from the accused and that he had brought the same from Meerut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/robber-held-with-huge-cache-of-arms/article36833026.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth beaten to death over theft suspicion||A 20-year-old youth died after he was allegedly beaten by the public on suspicion of theft in Outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri on Monday. The police are awaiting the post-mortem report for legal action. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the deceased has been identified as Vishal Singh. A PCR call was made by Sumit, 33, a resident of Aman Vihar, stating that a thief was caught after he entered their house. When the police reached the spot, the man was lying unconscious. “He was taken to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where he was declared dead,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youth-beaten-to-death-over-theft-suspicion/article36833353.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||BJP ready to kill farmers, alleges AAP||Aam Aadmi Party leaders on Monday staged a protest at Jantar Mantar, demanding the arrest of people who “murdered farmers”, referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh where four farmers died. “There is an emergency-like situation. No one can talk about anything. You kill someone and no one can even raise their voice. But in a democracy, you have this right... If action is not taken, then the AAP will take this fight for farmers,” AAP Delhi in-charge Gopal Rai said. “The incident in U.P. shows that the BJP is not only unwilling to listen to farmers, but also is ready to kill them...,” the AAP leader said. The AAP chief spokesperson said MP Sanjay Singh was detained by the Uttar Pradesh police. The party demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra be immediately sacked from the Cabinet and his son be arrested and sent to jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-ready-to-kill-farmers-alleges-aap/article36833357.ece
05 October 2021||New DELHI,||Vehicle loans: Banks, NBFCs told to integrate services with VAHAN by Oct 31||The Transport Department on Monday issued a circular instructing vehicle loan provider banks, financial institutions and Non-Banking Financial Companies to integrate their services with the VAHAN portal latest by October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vehicle-loans-banks-nbfcs-told-to-integrate-services-with-vahan-by-oct-31/article36833354.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||8 kids forced into begging rescued||Eight children — who were forced into begging — were rescued from Bhikaji Cama Place, said Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Seven kids were aged between 6 and 17 years and one was 1.5 years old. They were given medical care and COVID testing at the office of SDM Vasant Vihar,” a statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/8-kids-forced-into-begging-rescued/article36833358.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Jain conducts inspection to take stock of road reconstruction drive||Public Works Department Minister Satyendar Jain conducted a surprise inspection to take stock of the ongoing road reconstruction drive being carried out by the Delhi government on Monday. He told officials to fill all potholes by October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jain-conducts-inspection-to-take-stock-of-road-reconstruction-drive/article36833356.ece
05 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. wants ‘frank’ trade talks with China||The United States said it will soon have “frank conversations” with China on trade as Washington believes the Asian giant has not honoured its commitments under a 2020 agreement, but raising tensions between the economic powers is not the goal. “China made commitments intended to benefit certain American industries, including agriculture, that we must enforce,” U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai said in a speech on Monday. However, the point of the negotiations in the coming days is “not to inflame trade tensions with China”, Ms. Tai said at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank. She also warned that President Joe Biden’s administration is “prepared to deploy all tools and explore the development of new ones” to “protect ourselves against the waves of damage inflicted over the years through unfair competition.” Ms. Tai announced the launch of “a targeted tariff exclusion process” for exemptions from customs tariffs imposed on $370 billion worth of Chinese goods a year implemented under former President Donald Trump. The punitive tariffs, imposed in retaliation for Chinese trade practices deemed “unfair”, are criticised by many companies. ‘Tariffs to stay’ In August, influential U.S. business groups urged Mr. Biden to reduce the surcharges, pointing out that American industries faced “increased costs” as the tariffs are paid by importers. A senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the tariffs “will remain in place” for the duration of the exemption procedure. Mr. Biden, who took office in January, asked Ms. Tai to conduct a comprehensive review of U.S. trade strategy towards China and the tariffs initiated by Mr. Trump. “We continue to have serious concerns with China's state-centred and non-market trade practices” that were not addressed in the ‘Phase One’ agreement signed early last year to calm a trade war between the countries, Ms. Tai said. “As we work to enforce the terms of Phase One, we will raise these broader policy concerns with Beijing.” The deal signed by Mr. Trump and Ms. Tai's opposite number, Vice Premier Liu He, committed Beijing to adding an extra $200 billion in purchases of US exports, including energy, agricultural and manufactured products through 2021. That is far from happening, trade analysts say. The Biden administration official did not specify the extent of the shortfall, while indicating that Washington is unsatisfied. “There are some commitments that have not been met and we think the results overall of the agreement have been mixed," the official said, while stressing the U.S. objective “is not to escalate trade tension”. Ms. Tai's speech highlighted the administration's strategy of teaming up with allied democracies in its competition with China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-wants-frank-trade-talks-with-china/article36832622.ece
05 October 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. will start trade talks with China: Tai||The U.S. will begin trade discussions with China while pushing Beijing to adhere to the terms of the Trump administration’s ‘Phase I’ trade deal, U.S. Trade Representative (USTR), Katherine Tai said on Monday. Speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a Washington DC-based think tank, Ms. Tai said that in talks with Beijing, the U.S. would discuss China’s “performance” under the Trump-era trade deal. “First, we will discuss with China, its performance under the Phase I agreement,” Ms. Tai said, referring to a deal that came into effect in early 2020. The agreement involved China committing to purchase goods from certain U.S. sectors (agricultural, manufacturing, energy, etc.) and addressing U.S. issues with its practices around intellectual property in return for the U.S. freezing or cutting tariffs imposed earlier in what had been an escalating trade war-like situation between the two countries. Mr. Biden has repeatedly been critical of Mr. Trump’s trade actions towards China. However, senior administration officials told reporters on a Sunday afternoon briefing call that while Mr. Biden was critical of the Phase I deal, it had helped some U.S. industries, and would be continued where it worked. “For example, there is real-world evidence that some businesses covered by the phase one trade deal have done better. President Biden is going to continue doing things that work…” an official said. China fell short of its committed purchases in 2020 by 40% and will fall short by 30% in 2021 according to Chad Bown of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Next, the U.S. is expected to begin a ‘targeted tariff exclusion process’ and keep open the option of expanding this process to cover other goods in the future, Ms. Tai said. She said Beijing had “doubled down” on its state-centred economic practices and that China’s “lack of adherence to global trading norms” had undercut the prosperity of the U.S. and its allies. The third aspect of the trade policy she outlined would involve raising these concerns with China. The fourth and final part of the strategy would involve working with allies to shape the rules for “fair trade” and to “facilitate a race to the top for market economies and democracies.” “When it comes to our relationship with China, what's best for American workers, is growing the American economy to create more opportunity with better wages, here in the United States,” Ms. Tai said. “As the United States Trade Representative, I intend to deliver on President Biden's vision for a worker centred trade policy in the U.S.-China trade dynamic,” she said emphasising a theme of the Biden agenda. Asked in a question and answer session if the U.S. would consider launching a (another) probe into China’s trading practices — commonly referred to as a ‘301’ after the statute that underlies it, Ms. Tai suggested it was an option.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-start-trade-talks-with-china-tai/article36832872.ece
05 October 2021||Kabul,||Kabul IS cell destroyed, say Taliban||The Taliban said on Monday they had destroyed an Islamic State cell in the Afghan capital, hours after a suspected IS attack on a mosque killed five persons. After overrunning Kabul seven weeks ago, the hardliners have set up an interim Afghan government, but still face attacks from the regional branch of the Islamic State. The Taliban's chief spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said fighters carried out the operation in the north of Kabul on Sunday evening. “As a result of the operation, which was very decisive and successful, the IS centre was completely destroyed and all the IS members in it were killed,” Mujahid said on Twitter. Witnesses and AFP journalists heard blasts and gunfire in the capital at the time of the raid, and images posted to social media showed a large explosion and a fire at the scene. Kabul resident and government employee Abdul Rahaman said that a “large number” of Taliban special forces attacked at least three houses in his neighbourhood. “The fighting continued for several hours,” he said, adding the sound of weapons kept him awake all night. The operation took place within hours of a deadly attack targeting a prayer ceremony at the Eid Gah mosque in memory of Taliban spokesman Mujahid's mother, who died last week. A government cultural commission official said that five persons died and 11 were wounded, adding the casualties included both civilians and Taliban members. “We have also arrested three persons in connection with the blast,” he said. On Monday, Mujahid told AFP that an investigation was still ongoing but “initial information suggests that Daesh-linked groups may have carried out the attack”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-is-cell-destroyed-say-taliban/article36832620.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||China sends 52 jets towards Taiwan||China on Monday sent 52 PLA Air Force aircraft towards Taiwan in the latest show of aerial force, marking a third record aerial intrusion in the past four days. Taiwan’s Ministry of Defence said the aircraft included 34 J-16s and 12 nuclear capable H-6 bombers, and said it had responded by issuing radio warnings and deploying air defence systems to monitor the activity. Monday’s entry of the PLA aircraft into the Air Defence Identification Zone followed a record 38 aircraft sent on Friday, when China marked its National Day, and 39 aircraft on Saturday in two separate waves. Taiwan officials have hit out at the aerial intrusions into the ADIZ as acts of “military aggression” and “damaging regional peace”. National Day The intrusions have coincided with China’s National Day, marked on October 1, and come ahead of Taiwan’s National Day on October 10. The aerial deployments were seen in Taiwan as “a demonstration to Taiwan and the U.S. of the PLA’s joint combat capabilities and its ability to quickly assemble assets from different units”, the official CNA news agency reported from Taipei on Sunday. Beijing has in the past timed intrusions into the ADIZ as a form of signalling. Prior to the National Day intrusions, another on September 23 coincided with Taiwan saying it had submitted an application to join the 11-nation CPTPP (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) trade deal, days after China said it had formally applied to join the Pacific pact. Last month, Beijing strongly hit out at Taiwan’s application to join the CPTPP. “There is only one China in the world,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. Commenting on Saturday’s record air intrusions, U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the U.S. “is very concerned by the People’s Republic of China’s provocative military activity near Taiwan, which is destabilising, risks miscalculations, and undermines regional peace and stability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-sends-52-jets-towards-taiwan/article36832628.ece
05 October 2021||Stockholm,||U.S. duo win Nobel for work on temperature and touch||U.S. scientists David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian on Monday won the Nobel Medicine Prize for discoveries on receptors for temperature and touch. “The groundbreaking discoveries... by this year’s Nobel Prize laureates have allowed us to understand how heat, cold and mechanical force can initiate the nerve impulses that allow us to perceive and adapt to the world,” the Nobel jury said. The pair’s research is being used to develop treatments for a wide range of diseases and conditions, including chronic pain. Mr. Julius, who in 2019 won the $3-million Breakthrough Prize in life sciences, said he was stunned to receive the call from the Nobel committee early on Monday. “One never really expects that to happen... I thought it was a prank,” he told Swedish Radio. ‘Essential for survival’ The Nobel Foundation meanwhile posted a picture of Mr. Patapoutian next to his son Luca after hearing the happy news. “Our ability to sense heat, cold and touch is essential for survival,” the Nobel Committee explained, “and underpins our interaction with the world around us.” “In our daily lives we take these sensations for granted, but how are nerve impulses initiated so that temperature and pressure can be perceived? This question has been solved by this year’s Nobel Prize laureates.” Mr. Julius, 65, was recognised for his research using capsaicin — a compound from chili peppers that induces a burning sensation — to identify which nerve sensors in the skin respond to heat. He told Scientific American in 2019 that he got the idea to study chili peppers after a visit to the grocery store. “I was looking at these shelves and shelves of basically chili peppers and extracts (hot sauce) and thinking, ‘This is such an important and such a fun problem to look at. I’ve really got to get serious about this’,” he said. Mr. Patapoutian's discovery was identifying the class of nerve sensors that respond to touch. They will share the Nobel Prize cheque for 10 million Swedish kronor ($1.1 million).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-duo-win-nobel-for-work-on-temperature-and-touch/article36832618.ece
05 October 2021||New York,||Leaders seek to limit ‘Pandora’ damage||Governments moved on Monday to limit the fallout from a release of millions of documents detailing how leaders have used offshore tax havens to stash assets worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Some 35 current and former leaders are featured in roughly 11.9 million documents leaked from financial services companies across the world. The documents, known as the “Pandora Papers,” were obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ). Russian leader Vladimir Putin is not named but he is linked via associates to secret assets in Monaco, particularly a waterfront home acquired by a Russian woman reported to have had a child with him. “This is just a set of largely unsubstantiated claims,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. “We didn't see anything on hidden wealth within Mr. Putin's inner circle.” Jordan was also keen to play down the revelations, which exposed how King Abdullah II created a network of offshore companies and tax havens to amass a $100 million property empire from California to London. The country’s royal court said the properties were funded with the King's personal wealth and were used for official and private visits.  Family and associates of Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyevare alleged to have been secretly involved in property deals in Britain worth hundreds of millions. And the documents also show how Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis failed to declare an offshore investment company used to purchase a chateau worth $22 million in the south of France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leaders-seek-to-limit-pandora-damage/article36832624.ece
05 October 2021||Washington,||‘Facebook prioritising profit over safety’||The whistleblower who shared a trove of Facebook documents alleging the social media giant knew its products were fuelling hate and harming children’s mental health revealed her identity on Sunday in a televised interview, and accused the company of choosing “profit over safety”. Frances Haugen, a 37-year-old data scientist, has worked for companies including Google and Pinterest — but said in an interview that Facebook was “substantially worse”. She called for the company to be regulated. “It is subsidising, it is paying for its profits with our safety,” Ms. Haugen said. “The version of Facebook that exists today is tearing our societies apart and causing ethnic violence around the world,” she said. The world's largest social media platform has been embroiled in a firestorm brought about by Ms. Haugen, who as an unnamed whistleblower shared documents with U.S. lawmakers and The Wall Street Journal that detailed how Facebook knew its products, including Instagram, were harming young girls, especially around body image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-prioritising-profit-over-safety/article36832617.ece
05 October 2021||San Francisco,||Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram hit by outage||Facebook and its Instagram and WhatsApp platforms were hit by a massive outage on Monday, impacting potentially tens of millions of users as the social media giant faces fallout over its effect on teens and misinformation. Tracker ‘Downdetector’ was showing outages in heavily populated areas like Washington and Paris, with problems being reported from around 2115 IST. “We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products,” Facebook spokesman Andy Stone said on Twitter. Users trying to access Facebook in affected areas were greeted with the message: “Something went wrong. We’re working on it and we’ll get it fixed as soon as we can.” The outage comes a day after a whistleblower went on U.S. television to reveal her identity after she leaked a trove of documents to authorities alleging the company knew its products were fueling hate and harming children’s mental health. Consequently, the social media platform has come under sharp criticism from U.S. lawmakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-whatsapp-instagram-hit-by-outage/article36832871.ece
05 October 2021||Tokyo,||Fumio Kishida elected as new PM of Japan||Japan's parliament on Monday elected Fumio Kishida, a former moderate turned hawk, as Prime Minister. He'll face an economy battered by the pandemic, security threats from China and North Korea and leadership of a political party whose popularity is sagging ahead of a fast-approaching crucial national election. With his party and its coalition partner holding a majority in both houses, Mr. Kishida won by a comfortable margin against Yukio Edano, head of the largest opposition Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan. He replaces Yoshihide Suga, who resigned after only one year in office as his support plunged over his government's handling of the pandemic and insistence on holding the Tokyo Olympics as the virus spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fumio-kishida-elected-as-new-pm-of-japan/article36832626.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The dystopic reality of a Hindutva state||In a recent taunt against Muslims, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath railed against “people who say abba jaan ”, falsely claiming that earlier governments provided them alone with subsidised rations while depriving others of the same. He wears his hatred of Muslims, his bigotry, intolerance of dissent, and impatience with constitutional niceties as badges of honour. The State he helms has veered dangerously far from the inclusive, free and egalitarian guarantees of the Constitution. He also raged about alleged “shameless” sympathisers of the Taliban in India. The irony — surely unintended — is that his administration mirrors some of the religious intolerance and encouragement of violence that are hallmarks of the Taliban. Priorities of the administration Years before he became Chief Minister, Mr. Adityanath founded a hard-line Hindu youth militia, the Hindu Yuva Vahini. There is in his administration a blurring of the lines between militant Hindutva groups and the U.P. police as vigilantes are appointed “police mitr ” or friends of the police. This endows them with social authority and legitimacy and enables the police to function officially with vigilante groups. This works in both directions: vigilantes devoted to cow protection and preventing ‘love jihad’ believe they enjoy impunity for their violent attacks and the police are routinely deluged with toxic anti-Muslim propaganda. Cow slaughter, or allegedly trading in beef, has been elevated to high treason against the nation. The U.P. government has frequently used the National Security Act (NSA) for ‘cow slaughter’: out of 139 people jailed under the NSA in 2020, 76 were charged with cow slaughter. Even if their engagement in the beef trade is proved, it is hard to understand how this attracts a law empowering the government to detain those who threaten the security of the country. The U.P. police proudly reported to the media its peerless “achievement” over three years, of 6,476 “encounters” or extra-judicial shootouts against alleged criminals, mostly maiming them for life. The majority were petty criminals if not innocents; and many were charged with the crime of ‘cow slaughter’.  Another major ‘crime’ high on the priorities of the U.P. administration is inter-faith marriages between Muslim men and Hindu women, alleged to be ‘love jihad’. Mr. Adityanath directed senior police officials to investigate these alliances, and in November 2020, the cabinet passed an ordinance against what it described as an “unlawful conversion from one religion to another”. The Assembly later passed a Bill prohibiting conversion by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement, fraud or marriage. But loose terms enable loose interpretation, allowing the police and vigilante groups to threaten and target Muslim men who are in consensual relationships with Hindu women. Within just a month of the ordinance, 86 people were booked in 16 cases involving allegations of conversion for love or marriage of Hindu women to Muslim men. But there have been no attempts to criminalise Hindu men who marry Muslim women; this does not fit the narrative of ‘love jihad’. The U.P. administration does not hide its hostility to its Muslim citizens — “people who say abba jaan ”. In recent months in the run-up to the State elections early next year, the temperatures of campaigns — official and social — targeting Muslim citizens, and indeed sundry subalterns and dissenters, have risen dangerously. Muslim families “voluntarily” agreed to give up their homes in the periphery of the Gorakhnath Temple ostensibly to help enhance its security. Incidentally, the head priest of the temple is the Chief Minister of the State. The next month, the anti-terror squad of the State claimed to have busted a conversion racket in which more than 1,000 people had been forced to convert to Islam. This was shrilly reported by television channels and Hindi newspapers. But many people who were contacted by independent journalists affirmed that they had converted to Islam voluntarily. The sale of meat and liquor has been completely banned in Mathura. Lynching has risen, mostly with the tacit protection of the police. It is not just Muslims who are threatened by the strong arm of the U.P. state. People who speak of or report uncomfortable truths, who peacefully protest, Dalits, and survivors of sexual violence face the ire of such power. But in times of calamity, like the COVID-19 tragedy, all citizens are left abandoned by the hubris of an uncaring state. Smelling conspiracies The shameful rape of impoverished and Dalit girls is not new in U.P., but the open exertions of the police to terrorise the victims and protect the socially and politically influential rapists stand out. Unnao and Hathras have become part of the disgraceful lexicon of state indifference to sexual crimes against disadvantaged castes. In Unnao, it took the threat of the rape survivor to immolate herself outside the Chief Minister’s home for the police to act against the BJP MLA she charged with her rape, but the police thrashed in custody her father, who died. And in Hathras, after a teenaged Dalit girl was gang-raped, allegedly by ‘upper-caste’ men, and died, police investigations seemed geared to prove she was not raped, and her body was hastily cremated at night. The administration alleged an “international conspiracy” to defame the government and provoke caste-riots and arrested under anti-terror laws a journalist who had travelled from Kerala to report the case. Speaking, writing or organising people against state actions has also become dangerous in U.P. The mostly peaceful protesters against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act were slammed in U.P. with 10,900 FIRs. Twenty-two people were killed in police firings, 41 minors were arrested, 500 notices were slapped for recovery from those alleged to have damaged public property, and hoardings displaying photographs of activists and civil society members accused of instigating violence and damaging public property were put up. My colleagues and I visited several towns at that time and found that the police had ransacked and looted like rioters hundreds of homes of Muslims, and their places of worship. Infamously, as reports emerged during the second COVID-19 wave in the State of lack of oxygen, testing and hospital beds, the Chief Minister once again saw only a sinister conspiracy to defame his government, and threatened to detain under the NSA and seize the properties of those who “spread rumours” of shortages on health provisioning. He even angrily dismissed the stories about floating bodies in the Ganga, claiming that it is customary for certain communities to throw corpses of their loved ones into rivers. He refused to postpone the U.P. panchayat elections, and at least 1,600 teachers who were on poll duty died because of exposure to the virus. Once again, their grieving families were offered no regret, only angry denials. There are ominous signs that this model of Hindutva machismo is being emulated by Chief Ministers of other States such as Assam, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, U.P. has evolved into the dystopic reality of a Hindutva state, untrammelled by constitutional morality. Harsh Mander is a Richard von Weizsäcker Fellow and peace and human rights worker, writer and teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dystopic-reality-of-a-hindutva-state/article36832616.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||An alphabet soup New Delhi needs to sift through||The current ruckus over AUKUS — the trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, which was announced on September 15, 2021 — has revealed the hazards of group diplomacy, which Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had anticipated when President Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh proposed a regional organisation for South Asia. The SAARC years Apart from its reservations about the reference to security in the draft charter for SAARC, or the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, India was in a dilemma — that not joining the forum would look as though India was against regional cooperation. And if it joined, it faced the possibility of its neighbours ganging up and using the SAARC institutions to pressure India on various regional issues. One other concern was that the proposer of such a group would be suspected of aspiring to the leadership of a region. On balance, India joined the Association with a number of conditionalities such as the exclusion of bilateral issues, decision-making by voting, and holding of meetings without all members being present. But despite the imperative for cooperation in vital fields, SAARC became an arena for India bashing, particularly by Pakistan. It was bilateral diplomacy in the guise of multilateralism and it became moribund as India did not attend the last summit. SAARC became a liability as it was clear that the region was not mature enough to have a regional instrumentality. Today, the world has a whole spectrum of groups — from the European Union at one end to the African Union at the other — with varying shades of cooperation. Groups with acronyms such as North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and numerical groups from a notional G-2 to a real G-77 which has more than a 100 members, exist. Many of them do not have regional, ideological or thematic homogeneity to lend them a reason for forming a group. The time, the money and the energy spent on convening not only summits but also a whole paraphernalia of ministerial, official and expert level meetings do not seem justified. Bureaucracies, with United Nations salaries and perks, grow around these bodies, developing vested interests to perpetuate them. Such groups which do not have “sunset” clauses continue even after they diminish in importance Searching for an agenda Finding the agenda for these organisations and groups is another difficult exercise. The growing agenda of the United Nations includes everything from peace on earth to celestial bodies and even UFOs. When India decided to remain in the Commonwealth even as an independent country, the nature of the affinity to the British Crown changed and its agenda expanded beyond the concerns of the former British colonies. The only way it could survive, after Zimbabwe became independent and apartheid disappeared in South Africa, was by duplicating the agenda of the United Nations and repeating pronouncements of member-states made in other organisations. The role of the Commonwealth was reviewed, but the members reached the conclusion that it had continuing relevance. The rationale of some of the other new groups was unclear even when they were formed. A Goldman Sachs economist found similarities among fast growing economies such as China, Russia, India and Brazil and recommended massive western investments in these countries. The countries concerned formed an intergovernmental group called BRIC and later BRICS, with South Africa added as a representative of the African continent. At that time, it was feared that, with the presence of China and Russia in it, it would be construed as an anti-American group. As expected. China quickly assumed the leadership of BRICS and tried to seek changes in the international economic system by establishing a bank, with the possibility of credit for its members. The result of this development was undermining the relevance of another, less ambitious, group of India, Brazil and South Africa (IBSA), which had several common interests. As candidates for permanent membership of the Security Council, they had specific ideas on UN reform and on South-South cooperation. On Afghanistan The recent BRICS summit had Afghanistan on its agenda and the diverse group was able to reach a conclusion only with different caveats. Russia and China were more sympathetic to the Taliban than the others. At the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit, delegations found some common elements of concern with dramatically different approaches. The SCO started off as a friendly group of China and some of the former Republics of the Soviet Union, but with the addition of India, Pakistan and Iran, it became a diverse group and it could not reach agreement. Pakistan naturally sounded triumphant, but even Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan could not gloat over the unshackling of the Taliban in the face of a looming humanitarian catastrophe in Afghanistan. Whether the Chinese presence in these summits and the meetings between Wang Yi and S. Jaishankar (the Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister and India’s External Affairs Minister, respectively) made any difference to the stand-off in Ladakh is yet to be seen. But we know that frequent meetings with the leaders of China do not necessarily mean a meeting of minds as Beijing’s trajectory of thoughts and actions are highly unpredictable. Those who saw China’s President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in conversation in Mamallapuram (near Chennai), at the second informal summit between India and China, in October 2019, would never have thought that they would ever be in an armed conflict. India and other groupings India has also had experience of taking initiatives to encourage groups without the participation of Pakistan, knowing well that Pakistan’s presence is a sure recipe for trouble. One of them is the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC), an international organisation of seven South Asian and Southeast Asian nations which are dependent on the Bay of Bengal: Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Thailand. The group remained dormant for many years till it was revived a few years ago as an alternative to SAARC. Though it has an ambitious agenda for sectoral cooperation, it has not gained much momentum. Another group which India has championed is the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). The organisation was first established as the Indian Ocean Rim Initiative in Mauritius in March 1995 and formally launched on March 6-7 1997 (then known as the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Co-operation). It also drags on without any significant progress. On the other hand, the two active groups, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), have eluded us even though we have major stakes in them. We campaigned actively for membership of these two bodies, but gave up when we made no headway. In the process of working with the U.S. on a bouquet of groups such as Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR), NSG, the Wassenaar Arrangement and the Australia Group, we ended up with membership of Wassenaar and the Australia Group, in which we were not interested. The Quad and AUKUS The Quad had a chequered history of India flirting with it for years till the Chinese threat became real in 2020, but New Delhi’s reluctance to call a spade a spade has driven the U.S. to new alliances such as a second Quad and then AUKUS as the U.S. wanted to fortify itself with allies against China. But the reaction of France to AUKUS has raised the issue of loyalty among allies even though AUKUS has made it clear that it was meant only to enable the U.S. to transfer nuclear propelled submarine technology to Australia. The proliferation of alliances and groups will be a matter of close scrutiny by many countries in the light of the new trend initiated by the U.S. Collective bargaining is the strength of group diplomacy but it cannot be effective without commitment to a common cause. It stands to reason that India should also reconsider the plethora of groups we are in and rationalise them after a reality check. T.P. Sreenivasan is a former Ambassador of India to several multilateral bodies, and is presently Director-General of the Kerala International Centre, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-alphabet-soup-new-delhi-needs-to-sift-through/article36832605.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Taproots to help restore India’s fading green cover||Covering nearly 30% land surface of the earth, forests around the globe provide a wide variety of ecosystem services and support countless and diverse species. They also stabilise the climate, sequester carbon and regulate the water regime. The State of the World’s Forests report 2020, says that since 1990, around 420 million hectares of forest have been lost through deforestation, conversion and land degradation. Nearly 178 million hectares have decreased globally due to deforestation (1990-2020). India lost 4.69 MHA of its forests for various land uses between 1951 to 1995. Despite various international conventions and national policies in place to improve green cover, there is a decline in global forest cover. This is the prime reason for forest restoration activities including tree planting to become increasingly popular and declaring 2021-2030 as the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration for improving environmental conditions and enhancing human communities. Restoration in laymen’s terms is bringing back the degraded or deforested landscape to its original state by various interventions to enable them to deliver all the benefits. Building and maintaining activities help to improve ecological functions, productivity and create resilient forests with multifarious capabilities. India’s varied edaphic, climatic and topographic conditions are spread over 10 bio-geographical regions and four biodiversity hotspots, sheltering 8% of the world’s known flora and fauna. However, dependence on forests by nearly 18% of the global human population has put immense pressure on ecosystems; in India, this has resulted in the degradation of 41% of its forests. To combat this, India joined the Bonn Challenge with a pledge to restore 21 MHA of degraded and deforested land which was later revised to 26 MHA to be restored by 2030. The first-ever country progress report under the Bonn Challenge submitted by India by bringing 9.8 million hectares since 2011 under restoration is an achievement. However, continued degradation and deforestation need to be tackled effectively to achieve the remaining target of restoration by addressing various challenges. Key challenges Local ecology with a research base: forest restoration and tree planting are leading strategies to fight global warming by way of carbon sequestration. However, planting without considering the local ecology can result in more damage. Similarly, planting a forest in the wrong places such as savannah grasslands could be disastrous for local biodiversity. Luckily recent research has shown that naturally regenerated forests tend to have more secure carbon storage. Being less tech-sensitive, cost-effective and conserving more biodiversity, natural forest restoration is becoming more widely accepted. However, it is fundamental to consider the local ecology before implementing any restoration efforts to retain their biodiversity and ecosystem functions. Restoration, being a scientific activity, needs research support for its success. Whether one goes for active restoration which includes planting or passive restoration with more focus on halting environmental stressors or adopting an intermediate approach of aided natural regeneration, it needs critical examination before putting restoration interventions into practice. Situation in India Nearly 5.03% of Indian forests are under protection area (PA) management needing specific restoration strategies. The remaining areas witness a range of disturbances including grazing, encroachment, fire, and climate change impacts that need area-specific considerations. Further, much of the research done so far on restoration is not fully compatible with India’s diverse ecological habitats hence warranting due consideration of local factors. So, the relevance of local research duly considering ecological aspects, local disturbances and forest-dependent communities is vital to formulate guidelines for locally suitable interventions and to meet India’s global commitment. Though India’s increasing economic growth is helping to eliminate poverty, there is continued degradation and a growing scarcity of natural resources. The intricate link between poverty and environmental degradation was first highlighted by India at the first UN global conference on the human environment in Stockholm. Out of its 21.9% population living under the poverty line, nearly 275 million people including local tribals depend on the forest for subsistence. Fundamental to the strategy Further, encroachment of nearly 1.48 MHA of forest and grazing in nearly 75% of forest area is also linked to the livelihood of local communities. Linked with the degradation of forests, this dependency, along with various social-political and economic factors, complicates the issue manifold. The participation of local communities with finances for incentives and rewards is essential to redress this complex riddle. There have been remarkable initiatives to involve local people in the protection and development of forests by forming joint forest management committees (JFMC). More than 1,18,213 JFMCs involving around 20 million people manage over 25 MHA of forest area. However, a review of their functionality and performance is essential to make them more dynamic and effective to scale up their involvement. Therefore, negotiations with a wide range of stakeholders including these committees for resolving conflicts and fulfilling restoration objectives are a must and a challenging feat to reach a suitable trade-off. Adequate financing is one of the major concerns for the success of any interventions including restoration. The active approach of restoration which includes tree planting and the involvement of communities seeks incentives and rewards and make the whole affair quite cost-intensive. The contribution of corporates in restoration efforts so far has been limited to 2% of the total achievement. Hence, alternate ways of financing such as involving corporates and dovetailing restoration activities with ongoing land-based programmes of various departments can help to make it easy for operation. Apart from these specific challenges, the common barriers to restoration as identified globally also need critical review before placing the required methodologies and area-specific strategies in place. The involvement of multiple stakeholders in forest restoration is bound to cause a conflict of interests among different stakeholders; along with low priority and insufficient funding, it becomes even more challenging. Active engagement of stakeholders including non-governmental organisations, awareness and capacity building of stakeholders with enabling policy interventions and finance can help a lot to achieve the remaining 16 MHA restoration objectives for India. The need of the hour is an inclusive approach encompassing these concerns with the required wherewithal. Mohan Chandra Pargaien is a senior IFS officer in Hyderabad, Telangana. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taproots-to-help-restore-indias-fading-green-cover/article36832608.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Cities are taking climate action||On September 23, Maharashtra’s Environment Minister, Aaditya Thackeray, announced that 43 cities across the State will join the UN-backed ‘Race to Zero’ global campaign, which aims to create jobs while meeting goals of climate change and sustainable development. This is laudable and timely – Maharashtra has repeatedly been identified as a State that experiences multiple risks (floods, drought, sea-level rise to name a few) and reports abysmally inadequate policy action on climate-resilient development. Are cities doing enough? Indian cities have often been singled out for not doing enough on climate change. To examine this, we assessed climate action in 53 Indian cities with a population of over one million and found, promisingly, that approximately half these cities report climate plans, i.e., they have a climate resilience plan or set of projects in place. Of these, 18 cities have moved beyond intention to implementation. These numbers highlight an encouraging first step, signalling that recurrent experiences of floods, water scarcity, cyclones and storm surges are filtering up into urban development policy. However, a lot of interventions are being implemented through sectoral projects focusing on particular, isolated risks. For example, most cities report targeted projects to deal with heat waves and water scarcity, followed by inland flooding, extreme rainfall, and growing disease incidence. Coastal flooding, sea-level rise, and cyclones are discussed less often despite India’s long coastline and highly vulnerable coastal cities and infrastructure. This focus tends to overlook how multiple risks converge and reinforce each other — for example, seasonal cycles of flooding and water scarcity in Chennai. Importantly, solutions exist and many of them can simultaneously meet climate action and sustainable development goals. Front-runners in this space have been cities such as Ahmedabad, which has had a Heat Action Plan (HAP) since 2010, its success evident from reduced heat mortality. The HAP involves key government departments, NGOs, researchers and citizens and focuses on high-risk social groups like wage labourers, low-income groups, women and the elderly. Combining infrastructural interventions (for example, painting roofs white) and behavioural aspects (building public awareness on managing heat), the model has now been scaled up to 17 cities across the country. Nature-based solutions such as mangrove restoration in coastal Tamil Nadu and urban wetland management in Bengaluru have demonstrated how restoring ecosystem health can sustain human systems as well. For example, urban parks provide cooling benefits and wetlands regulate urban floods. Bottlenecks and ways forward Many have identified how inadequate finances and political will at city scales constrain developing sustainable Indian cities. However, what is less discussed is inadequate institutional capacity in existing government departments to reorient ways of working. This would entail moving away from looking at risks in isolation and planning for multiple, intersecting risks. This would mean transforming the ways our cities operate and expand. Undertaking long-term planning needs resilience planners in every line department as well as communication channels across departments to enable vertical and horizontal knowledge sharing. Another key aspect inherent in transforming cities is focusing on changing behaviours and lifestyles. This is tougher and less understood because the norms we adhere to, the values we cherish, and the systems we are familiar with tend to stymie change. One emerging example of slow but steady behavioural change is bottom-up sustainable practices such as urban farming where citizens are interpreting sustainability at a local and personal scale. This can mean growing one’s own food on terraces and simultaneously enhancing local biodiversity; composting organic waste and reducing landfill pressure; sharing farm produce with a neighbour, bringing communities closer and creating awareness about food growing. India is becoming increasingly urban. Its cities or city-like villages are sites where the twin challenges of climate change and inclusive development will be won or lost. Pledges like Maharashtra’s are a welcome addition to ongoing climate plans. It remains to be seen how they translate into action. While gloom and doom dominate climate reportage, a range of solutions with co-benefits for climate action and development exists. How to leverage these solutions and equip our city planners and citizens to implement them is what we should focus on. Chandni Singh is a senior researcher and faculty member at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS), Bengaluru; Mythili Madhavan is a research associate at IIHS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cities-are-taking-climate-action/article36832612.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Science over smog towers||Two new smog towers have been recently inaugurated in Delhi. Bengaluru and Chandigarh also installed smog towers this year. Mumbai’s clean air plan indicates a financial requirement of Rs. 25 crore for installing air filtration units at major traffic intersections in the city. While these efforts indicate that governments are taking cognisance of air pollution, the deployments are often driven by symbolism rather than science. For example, the Delhi government claims that the newly installed smog tower in Connaught Place could reduce air pollution levels by 80%. But there is no scientific evidence of smog towers or any other outdoor air filtration units improving air quality in cities. The smog tower installed in China’s Xi’an and another one installed in Beijing did not prove to be effective and were not scaled up. Smog towers create an illusion of progress towards clean air while diverting crores of public money away from proven solutions. Moreover, they misdirect policymakers and citizens by deflecting attention from areas that call for urgent action. Therefore, governments looking at investing in outdoor filtration systems should defer their deployment plans. Further, the data on the effectiveness of the newly installed smog towers should be made available publicly for independent evaluation. Until there is scientific consensus on their effectiveness, every new tower installed is just a violation of taxpayers’ money and citizens’ trust. What we can do Meanwhile, governments must ramp up investments in proven solutions to reduce air pollution. First, policymakers should expand air pollution monitoring in areas with limited or no air quality monitoring and strengthen forecasting capacity across cities. Of the 132 cities in the country that currently don’t meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, 75 do not have a single real-time monitoring station. For areas with no monitoring infrastructure, alternatives like low-cost air quality monitors in combination with satellite observations should be explored to plug the existing data gaps. Simultaneously, cities should strengthen their air quality forecasting systems by collaborating with scientific institutions that are transparent about their approach and findings. These forecasts should be used in rolling out preventive measures such as travel restrictions, pausing commercial activities or encouraging working from home, on anticipated high pollution days. Second, city-level emission inventories must be updated periodically. Until last year, over 75% of our city clean air plans did not contain vital information on emissions from different polluting sources. These data are critical to identify key sources of air pollution and design effective clean air plans as per the local context. While several academic institutions carry out emission inventory and source apportionment studies, these studies should not become a one-time exercise. Third, targeted efforts must be made to improve air quality for urban slum dwellers who have no access to clean cooking energy. In a recent study, we found that nearly half the urban slum households in six States still rely on biomass and other polluting fuels for their cooking needs. Also, household emissions increase during winter, especially when fuel requirement for non-cooking tasks like space heating increases. This increases exposure to indoor air pollution and poses health risks. Hence, policymakers must focus on providing LPG connections to these households along with ensuring sustained usage of LPG as the primary fuel. Finally, and most importantly, cities should strengthen their enforcement capacity by investing in people and systems that can keep a round-the-clock watch on both egregious and episodic polluters. India is witnessing a rising democratic demand for clean air. But this cannot be met by unproven technological fixes. Instead, we must vigorously pursue solutions that are rooted in science to bring back blue skies. Tanushree Ganguly is Programme Lead and Mihir Shah is Strategic Communications Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/science-over-smog-towers/article36832613.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Needless escalation||The deaths of eight people, four of whom were mowed down by a vehicle that was part of the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs and BJP MP Ajay Kumar Mishra, in Lakhimpur Kheri in north-central Uttar Pradesh, marks an escalation of violence in a movement that has tried to remain peaceful. While the agitators and the BJP have traded charges on who is responsible, the incident has also worsened chances of a rapprochement between the farmers protesting against farm laws introduced last year and the Union government. There has been little headway since January this year, when the Government agreed to a few demands and also promised to keep the farm laws in abeyance, and after the Supreme Court stayed their implementation. But the distrust between the unions representing the agitators and the Government has remained high, with the farmers refusing to budge from their maximalist position seeking a repeal of the three laws passed last year — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The farmers are also willing to continue the protest indefinitely, with its intensity increasing after the harvest season even as their methods have come to the unfavourable notice of Supreme Court judges. A Court-appointed committee to facilitate dialogue with the farmers submitted its report on the laws in March but it is yet to be made public. The experience of the economic reforms since 1991 has shown that rushing them through without political consensus — even if they have merits — by ignoring crucial stakeholders creates severe discontent. Farming in much of India has largely been dependent upon State subsidies, procurement and support pricing — and any sudden change in these inputs may jolt the sector, which has been prone to crises in the last few decades, even if the Government claims that liberalising the farm sector will enhance agricultural incomes. It is true that the protesting farmer unions are concentrated in Punjab, Haryana and western U.P., where the involvement of the State in agricultural procurement, awareness of minimum support prices and the presence of mandis is more robust. But it is also true that institutional redress mechanisms to take into account farmers’ concerns have not been put in place. After all, the laws were passed without sufficient deliberation through parliamentary committees and public hearings even as the Bills were rushed, by voice votes, in the Upper House of Parliament. This, no doubt, is the reason for the lingering trust deficit. The U.P. government must impartially investigate the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri but it is also imperative for the BJP-led Union government to restore mechanisms of procedural democracy to bridge the trust deficit. Restarting talks with the unions will be a good beginning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needless-escalation/article36832600.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata’s march||The victory of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur by-poll in West Bengal has come as no surprise but the margin of the victory and the little resistance put up by the Opposition parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party have come as a shot in the arm for the ruling Trinamool Congress. Ms Banerjee’s record winning margin of 58,832 votes is more than twice the margin of victory secured by the TMC candidate at the same constituency, located in the heart of Kolkata, five months ago in the State’s Assembly polls. The ruling party won all the three seats that went to the polls on September 30 in the State. In Jangipur, the margin of victory for the TMC candidate was over 92,000 votes and at Samserganj, the Trinamool Congress nominee won by over 26,000 votes. In two out of three seats, the BJP was the main opposition to the TMC but in Samserganj, the Congress nominee secured about 70,000 votes, pushing the BJP to the third position. Though Ms. Banerjee could not win the Nandigram seat in the Assembly election early this year, her decision to contest that seat considerably boosted her party. With her election as an MLA just in time to meet the six month deadline, Ms. Banerjee has capped her party’s impressive victory in May. The outcomes also reinforce her positioning as a leader who has the gumption to confront the BJP that had left no stone unturned in its attempt to unseat her. The BJP stands further tamed after the by-poll outcomes. It put up a political greenhorn, Priyanka Tibrewal, to contest against the charismatic and popular Ms. Banerjee. The West Bengal BJP, which found it difficult to get the right candidates to contest against TMC nominees in the Assembly polls, continues to grapple with the same challenge five months later. The BJP central leadership stayed away from the campaign unlike earlier this year. The State leaders of the party were no match to the Trinamool Congress, in strategy or popularity. The State unit of the BJP was hoping that the Election Commission of India (ECI) may not announce the polls within the six-month deadline that the Chief Minister had to meet. Apparently taken by surprise, they spent time challenging the ECI decision in the courts rather than campaigning on the ground. The TMC government’s focus on cash transfer and other welfare schemes continues to draw the support of the electorate, while the issues of violence and corruption raised by the BJP did not strike a chord with them. The results also point to the continuing resistance to the BJP’s polarising tactics in West Bengal, and the party’s difficulty in tailoring a politics that is suitable for the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mamatas-march/article36832601.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-rupee fake notes case||Coimbatore, Oct. 4: In the “Pogalur two-rupee counterfeit notes case”, all except one of the 20 accused were convicted and sentenced to-day to varying terms of rigorous imprisonment ranging from three to seven years on charges of criminal conspiracy and printing of counterfeit notes. The sentences are to run concurrently. Mr. V. Sethusolayar, Sub-Judge, Coimbatore, who delivered the judgment, held that the charges against M. Ramiah Chettiar, accused 17, had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt and acquitted him. The prosecution case was that between December 1965 and March 1969, the accused T. Arunmuga Gownder and 19 others belonging to Tamil Nadu and Kerala entered into a criminal conspiracy and printed two-rupee currency notes to the value of Rs. 838,400 in a ginning factory belonging to the first accused in Pogalur near Mettupalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-rupee-fake-notes-case/article36832609.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Need to double infra spending: Seth||India needs to double its infrastructure spending and the private sector must step up and partner with the government, Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth said on Monday, adding that the ministry was actively working on the Gati Shakti vision outlined by the Prime Minister. Mr. Seth said that work was apace on operationalising the Rs. 111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline supplemented by the National Monetisation Plan that aims to raise Rs. 6 lakh crore. The two programmes, he said, were being coupled with the Gati Shakti vision so that there could be ‘seamless movement of goods, services and job opportunities’. “That is one area we are particularly working on... with other ministries and States — how do we implement on the ground these two major plans with the overall vision of Gati Shakti,” Mr. Seth said at a meeting hosted by FICCI. Asserting that the heightened pace of reforms during the last 18 months was aimed at spurring a bounceback in the economy, Mr. Seth said: “Now, we are really on the path of very fast recovery”. Urging industry to partner on ideas for further reforms, particularly in infrastructure development, he said doubling the current infrastructure spending of 5%-6% of GDP was an imperative that could only be met through public private partnerships. Credit concerns Although the government had taken up ‘strong’ banking sector reforms and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code had yielded about Rs. 2.4 lakh crore of recoveries on bad loans, Mr. Seth expressed concern about tepid credit offtake trends. “In the past 18 months, due to lack of private demand and investment demand, the credit offtake has been rather moderate. That’s an area that needs work,” the Secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/need-to-double-infra-spending-seth/article36832589.ece
05 October 2021||new delhi,||Net oil importer India left with few options as price surges||As the world’s third-largest oil importer and consumer, India is running out of options as the relentless surge in international oil prices make it imperative to pass them on to consumers, officials said Monday. India imports 85% of its crude oil needs and about half of its natural gas requirement. While the crude oil is turned into fuels such as petrol and diesel, gas is used as CNG in automobiles and fuel in factories. “International crude oil prices continue to remain high, providing no respite to major oil importers such as India. (International benchmark) Brent oil future was quoting over $79 per barrel today. A month ago it was less than $72,” a top government official involved in the decision making said. This has squeezed margins and forced passing on the rise to consumers in the form of a hike in petrol and diesel prices. “With no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel,” the official said. “Unless international prices relent, oil companies will have no option but to continue passing on the increase to consumers,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/net-oil-importer-india-left-with-few-options-as-price-surges/article36832593.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Fashion category growth trebled in H1: Snapdeal||Growth in the fashion category for men and women more than trebled in the first six months of 2021, mainly driven by ‘Zoom fashion’ mostly comprising waist-up garments such as T-shirts and tops, said e-commerce firm Snapdeal. Sales grew significantly as consumers replenished their wardrobe to meet work-from-home clothing requirements between January and June, officials of the e-tailer said .  Children’s apparel spike Snapdeal also reported an almost sixfold surge in sales of children’s apparel in January-July over the year-earlier period. It also witnessed an increase in demand in the home category, which grew by 70% in the 18 months since March 2020. Commenting on its latest scale-up of logistics, delivery and fulfilment infrastructure, a Snapdeal spokesperson said, “We have set up 130 logistics hubs across India this year, taking our network to the entire country including J&K and the North Eastern region”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fashion-category-growth-trebled-in-h1-snapdeal/article36832583.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Compliance lapses led to corporate scandals: FM||Most big scandals and corporate failures in India in recent years happened for ‘want of matured compliance’, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, adding that the government was committed to making compliance norms simpler for businesses. Addressing the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) on their 53rd foundation day, Ms. Sitharaman urged them to recommend ways to simplify compliance requirements. ‘Lacking in maturity’ “In the last few years, compliance-related issues have been the main cause for companies to fail to live up to the expectations of their investors… Most often, big scandals have come out for want of mature compliance,” she said. “The greater simplicity we can bring into the system, the finer things would work… We are trying to remove the archaic laws, bring in only amendments that can further simplify the system and reduce penal provisions.” Suggesting that the emergence of greater opportunities for corporate India had occurred mostly under the present government, she said: “Your first 53 years may have had an India that was probably struggling to have a fair, open, free marketplace where companies can function freely and openly work towards wealth creation.” Though India embarked on economic reforms in 1991, the Minister said, a lot was left to be done. “What was envisaged in 1991 itself hadn’t happened, for very many reasons, the pace at which the opening up had to happen, the pace at which companies had to be liberated from the licence quota raj, hadn’t happened. “That actually is rapidly opening up the doors for companies... more in the last 7-8 years,” she said. Finance Secretary T.V. Somanathan acknowledged that while the Centre had been easing the compliance burden on firms, there was room for further relaxation. He requested the ICSI to help identify redundant and cumbersome norms that could be done away with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/compliance-lapses-led-to-corporate-scandals-fm/article36832587.ece
05 October 2021||mumbai,||‘Second wave impacts infrastructure finance’||Total infrastructure credit by banks and NBFC-Infrastructure Finance Companies (NBFC-IFCs) remained sluggish in the first quarter of the current fiscal due to the disruptions caused by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Icra Ratings said in a report. However, with the government’s focus on infrastructure, the demand for infrastructure credit is likely to improve over the medium term, it said. “Given the disruption caused by the second wave of the pandemic, total infrastructure credit (banks and NBFC-IFCs) remained sluggish in Q1 FY2022, with infrastructure-focused loan books remaining flat on quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q) basis for both NBFC-IFCs as well as banks,” Icra said in the report. The total infrastructure credit by banks and NBFC-IFCs is estimated at Rs. 24.7 lakh crore as on March 31, registering a sluggish growth of 10%, it said, adding given the disruption caused by the second wave of the pandemic, it has remained stable as on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-impacts-infrastructure-finance/article36832595.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Power cost to stay high as imported coal prices soar’||Short-term power prices are likely to remain elevated in the near term on account of a continued increase in imported coal prices, according to ratings agency Ind-Ra. It noted that a large part of the increased power generation would continue to be met through coal-based plants, although coal output is not increasing to the desired level. This is reflected in low inventory stocks at power plants, and therefore, a part of the increased energy demand will have to be met through imported coal, Ind-Ra said. In light of the expected high imported coal prices, the short-term power prices in India are likely to remain elevated, it stated. The speedy recovery in power demand post the second wave of COVID-19, coupled with lower-than-adequate domestic coal output, led to a reduction in coal inventory levels at various power plants, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-cost-to-stay-high-as-imported-coal-prices-soar/article36832596.ece
05 October 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI removes Srei Infra, SEFL boards||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has superseded the boards of Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd. (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance Ltd. (SEFL) owing to governance concerns and defaults in meeting payment obligations. “The Reserve Bank on Monday superseded the board of directors of SIFL and SEFL, owing to governance concerns and defaults by the companies in meeting various payment obligations,” the RBI said. Rajneesh Sharma, former chief general manager, Bank of Baroda, has been appointed as the administrator of the two companies. The Reserve Bank also intends to shortly initiate the IBC process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-removes-srei-infra-sefl-boards/article36832590.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Housing sales breach pre-COVID level; sales up 92 pc in July-Sep across 8 top cities: Knight Frank||Housing demand has breached pre-COVID levels with 92% year-on-year growth in sales during the July-September period across eight major cities, mainly on the back of stable prices and very low mortgage rates, property consultant Knight Frank India said on Monday.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/housing-sales-breach-pre-covid-level-sales-up-92-pc-in-july-sep-across-8-top-cities-knight-frank/article36832591.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Demand for power to grow at 8-8.5%: Icra||Rating agency Icra revised its energy demand growth outlook for 2021-22 upwards from 6% to 8-8.5%. Girishkumar Kadam, senior VP, Icra, said, “electricity demand growth outlook for FY22 is revised upwards to 8-8.5%, supported by low base effect in FY21 and faster-than-expected recovery in demand post COVID second wave.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-power-to-grow-at-8-85-icra/article36832592.ece
05 October 2021||Dubai,||We won the England series 2-1, asserts Rohit||India’s white-ball vice-captain Rohit Sharma has no idea about the status of last month’s abandoned fifth Test against England in Manchester but is quite clear in his mind that his team “won” the hard-fought series 2-1. The fifth Test in Manchester was abandoned after Team India’s junior physio Yogesh Parmar tested positive for COVID-19 and was found to be in direct contact with the players. This was after some senior members of the Indian support staff were also found to be infected. Extension The BCCI has agreed to play the fifth Test in July, 2022. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has said it will be an extension of this year’s series and not a one-off game as England wants. “I don’t know what’s happening with the last Test match. Whether we are playing a one-off Test (next year) but in my mind we have won the series 2-1,” Rohit said during Adidas’ campaign ‘Impossible Is Nothing’ which also features Tokyo Olympic medallists weightlifter Mirabai Chanu and boxer Lovlina Borgohain among other sports stars. Milestone  Asked if the England series, where he scored more than 400 runs with a hundred and two fifties in four games was a milestone series for him, he replied: “It was a good one considering where I was standing in my Test career.” But the soon-to-be T20 captain refused to call it his best series. “It’s not my best series. I feel my best is yet to come. I utilised the time before the World Test Championship final in Southampton (to figure out) what sort of technique and mindset is required. I was pretty happy and would like to take it further.” Save the rhino Rohit has been actively involved with the ‘Save the Rhinos’ campaign and also for a plastic free sustainable planet. He spoke about his experience thus far. “It was in 2014 when I went to Kenya and learnt about the condition of rhinos. India and Africa are two places where we have the maximum rhino population. “I often thought ‘why don’t I carry my cause on to the field’,” Rohit said about the company’s specially designed cricket shoes which carry the ‘Save the rhino’ message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-won-the-england-series-2-1-asserts-rohit/article36832999.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Capitals pip Super Kings in tense finish||A disciplined bowling effort, led by spinners Axar Patel (2/18) and R. Ashwin (1/20), and vital knocks by Shikhar Dhawan (39) and Shimron Hetmeyer (28 not out) helped Delhi Capitals edge out Chennai Super Kings by three wickets in a pulsating IPL clash in Dubai on Monday. Electing to field, Capitals’ spinners, along with Kagiso Rabada (4-0-21-0), helped restrict CSK to 136 for five. Ambati Rayudu waged a lone battle, his unbeaten 55 (43b, 5x4, 2x6) taking the side to a decent total. DC started strongly, scoring 48 in the first five overs, but made heavy weather of a modest chase after its batters kept throwing their wickets away and allowed CSK to remain in the hunt till the end. Dhawan anchored the chase with a measured approach. He started explosively, smashing Deepak Chahar for 21 runs (two sixes and two fours) in one over before holding fort at one end even as wickets kept falling at the other. Shardul Thakur (2/13) was the star performer for the Chennai side, his accurate back-of-a-length bowling proving difficult for the DC batters to score off. With 28 needed off the last three overs, Hetmeyer hit two crucial boundaries off Dwayne Bravo in the 18th over. He was lucky with the second one as substitute fielder K. Gowtham dropped a simple chance at long-on when he was on 12. In the end, the West Indian's unbeaten 28 helped DC seal a place in the top two. Earlier, CSK made a promising start as Ruturaj Gaikwad and Faf du Plessis struck a series of boundaries. However, the South African perished when he hit an arm-ball from Axar straight to mid-wicket. The in-form Ruturaj soon followed, mistiming a pull off Anrich Nortje. Axar and Ashwin bowled tight lines, reaping the benefits whenever the batters decided to take them on. From 62 for four in the ninth over, M.S. Dhoni and Rayudu forged a 70-run stand for the fifth wicket but struggled to score boundaries. In fact, the skipper (18, 27b) could not find the fence even once. Rayudu began slowly but switched gears towards the end, hitting sixes off Nortje and Avesh Khan to give the innings some momentum. However, it was not enough.   DC wins by three wickets  DC scored 139 for seven in 19.4 overs with Hetmyer unbeaten on 28||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/capitals-spinners-choke-super-kings/article36832839.ece
05 October 2021||LONDON,||England to decide on Ashes tour this week||England cricket chiefs will meet this week to decide whether the Ashes will go ahead later this year, with fears expressed about the strictness of coronavirus protocols in Australia. Joe Root’s team are due to play a five-Test series starting in Brisbane on December 8, with further matches in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Perth. But the players are understood to harbour concerns over quarantine, bubble environments and access for families and Root last week refused to commit to the tour. Constant touch The England and Wales Cricket Board said on Monday it was in “regular and positive dialogue” with Cricket Australia. “With health and well-being at the forefront, our focus is to ensure the tour can go ahead with conditions for players and management to perform at their best,” an ECB statement said. “Later this week the ECB board will meet to decide whether the conditions in place are sufficient for the tour to go ahead and enable the selection of a squad befitting a series of this significance,” it added. Multi-format England players potentially face months of travelling and living in biosecure bubbles. The T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates and Oman starts on October 17 before the Ashes series in December and January. The issue of players’ well-being was brought sharply into focus in July when it was announced that star England all-rounder Ben Stokes would be taking an indefinite break from cricket to “prioritise” his mental health. Australia is the current holder of the Ashes after retaining the urn following a 2-2 draw in England in 2019. The host won the last home series in 2017-18 4-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ecb-chiefs-to-decide-on-ashes-tour-this-week/article36832834.ece
05 October 2021||Dubai,||Morgan lauds KKR’s bowlers||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Eoin Morgan is the first one to admit that he has been woefully short of runs throughout the IPL, but is confident of finding some form with the tournament hitting the business end. “Yeah, I am short of runs in this phase of the tournament, the whole tournament in general. I am very lucky to be in a position where I have been through stages like this in my career,” Morgan said after his team’s six-wicket win over Sunrisers Hyderabad. “And I think the longer you go without contributing a significant score, the closer you are to actually contributing. And that’s coming from experience,” said Morgan. Speaking about Sunil Narine and Varun Chakravarthy, who have played a key role for KKR, he said the team was very lucky to have them. “I think they are the two big impact players for us (Varun Chakravarthy and Sunil Narine). We are very lucky to have them, particularly Narine. He has been a huge part of the franchise for a long time, an integral part of KKR’s success.” Morgan was also all praise for the bowling group.The KKR captain said veteran Kiwi Tim Southee has made a big impression in the absence of key players like Andre Russell, Lockie Ferguson, Pat Cummins and the others. “Tim’s obviously had a huge impact on the side, When you miss two or three big gun players — we miss Pat, Lockie, and Dre (Russell) — it’s not easy but Tim has stepped up to the plate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgan-lauds-kkrs-bowlers/article36832840.ece
05 October 2021||Rome,||Milan stays on Napoli’s coattails with a win at Atalanta||AC Milan stayed in touch with Serie A leader Napoli on Sunday after coming away from Atalanta with a 3-2 win which maintains its unbeaten start to the season and underlines its title credentials. Milan came out on top in a frenetic encounter to stay two points behind Napoli, whose 2-1 win at Fiorentina was its seventh in as many games so far this season, after a nervy ending in Bergamo which saw Atalanta pull back two late goals after going three down with 12 minutes remaining. There are signs that a three-way title race is starting to take shape with Inter Milan a further two points back in third. Milan went ahead almost straight from kick-off through Davide Calabria. The home crowd groaned in disbelief in the 20th minute when, after doing brilliantly to tip away Davide Zappacosta’s near post drive from the edge of the area, Milan ’keeper Maignan then got a hand to Duvan Zapata’s bullet header from the subsequent corner. And Sandro Tonali made the most of his goalkeeper’s fine display when he doubled Milan’s lead two minutes from half-time with his second Serie A goal of the season. Tonali, who has had a brilliant start to the campaign for Milan, picked Remo Freuler’s pocket and then raced through unopposed on goal before calmly slotting past Juan Musso. Milan kept a lid on Atalanta and should have added to its lead through Alexis Saelemaekers before Rafale Leao curled home the third in the 78th minute. Zapata’s 86th-minute penalty and a Mario Pasalic tap-in deep in stoppage time kept the game alive until the final whistle but Milan ran out deserved winner.  The results: LaLiga: Elche 1 (Benedetto 49) bt Celta Vigo 0; Getafe 1 (Ramirez 40) drew with Real Sociedad 1 (Oyarzabal 68); Villarreal 2 (Danjuma 45+1, 69) bt Real Betis 0; Granada 1 (Rochina 25) bt Sevilla 0.   Serie A: Atalanta 2 (Zapata 86-pen, Pasalic 90+4) lost to AC Milan 3 (Calabria 1, Tonali 43, Leao 78).   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 0 lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Diaby 18, Schick 24, 57, Demirbay 90+2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-snatches-a-point-in-dramatic-draw-at-liverpool/article36832844.ece
05 October 2021||Male,||10-man Bangladesh holds India||India allowed a 10-man Bangladesh to come back and score a shock goal after talismanic captain Sunil Chhetri’s 76th international strike for a 1-1 draw in their SAFF Championships opener here on Monday. The 37-year-old, playing his 121st match for India, struck in the 27th minute to move just a goal shy of legendary Brazilian Pele (77 goals from 92 matches). He is now fourth in the list of highest scorers among active footballers, behind Cristiano Ronaldo (111), Lionel Messi (79) and Iraq’s Ali Mabkhout (77). India was the better side in the first half and even though it lost possession quite often, it seemed to be cruising. It also had numerical advantage from the 54th minute onwards after Bangladesh player Biswanath Ghosh was sent off for committing a foul on Liston Colaco. But Igor Stimac’s men failed to stop the swift counter-attacking Bangladeshis and conceded in the 74th minute.  The result: India 1 (Chhetri 27) drew with Bangladesh 1 (Yeasin Arafat 74) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/10-man-bangladesh-holds-india/article36832836.ece
05 October 2021||Dusseldorf,||Dortmund sweats over Haaland fitness||Borussia Dortmund is set to spend the international break worrying about the fitness of Erling Haaland after the club indicated the Norway striker’s injury could drag on into the second half of October. Haaland hasn’t played since Sept. 19 with a unspecified muscle problem and will sit out Norway’s upcoming World Cup qualifiers against Turkey and Montenegro. Haaland wished the team luck on Twitter on Monday ahead of crunch games for his ambition to play in Norway’s first major tournament since 2000. “Fundamentally, all clubs have a duty to release (players) for international duty,” said Sebastian Kehl, the administrative manager for Dortmund’s team, in comments published on Monday by the Westdeutschen Allgemeinen Zeitung newspaper. “However, Erling is currently injured and hasn’t been able to play for us recently and also can’t take part in team training in the following weeks.” Kehl said he expected the Norwegian federation to have “trust in us and in (Haaland)” over the injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dortmund-sweats-over-haaland-fitness/article36833002.ece
05 October 2021||Austin,||Marquez reigns at GP of the Americas||Marc Marquez reasserted his mastery of the Circuit of the Americas on Sunday, winning MotoGP’s Grand Prix of the Americas for the seventh time. Marquez, starting third on the grid, seized the lead at the start and relentlessly powered to victory over championship leader Fabio Quartararo of France. Marquez never allowed Quartararo a look-in, but the Yamaha rider pushed his lead in the standings to 52 points over Italian Ducati rider Francesco Bagnaia, who finished third. With just three races left this season — and with 25 points on offer to the winner of each one — Quartararo is within touching distance of a first MotoGP world title. “The plan exactly was like I did the race,” said a beaming Marquez, the six-time World champion who won the first six races held at the Austin circuit but fell off while leading in 2019. The event was cancelled last season when he was recuperating after breaking his right arm in a crash, and his front-row start was his first since his return to the sport. By the halfway stage he was more than two seconds up on Quartararo, who started from the middle of the front row and finished 4.679s behind. Bagnaia, starting from pole for the third straight race, was running fourth with a few laps remaining, when his pressure on Jorge Martin finally caused the rookie to cut two corners and draw a long-lap penalty that secured Bagnaia’s place on the podium. History beckons Quartararo will have the chance to become France’s first MotoGP World champion at the next race at Misano in Italy on October 24. “Today, everyone on the podium is happy,” Marquez said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marquez-reigns-at-gp-of-the-americas/article36833010.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||Edulji, Shantha prefer ‘four-day’ Tests as they feel it’s more than enough||Australia head coach Matthew Mott has reiterated his call for five-day Test in women’s cricket but former India captains Diana Edulji and Shantha Rangaswamy are among the ones who prefer status quo and instead want resumption of red-ball games in domestic cricket. Mott and England captain Heather Knight suggested the need for making women’s Test matches a five-day affair from four after the pink-ball game between India and Australia ended in a draw. Too much time lost Close to 100 overs were lost in the game due to rain on the first two days. “It’s the five days for me,” said Mott after the drawn Test. The head coach also spoken about the need for five-day Tests after the 2019 women’s Ashes Test.  “Had this game gone another day, I think we’d have seen a very good Test. A little more time in the game would certainly help everyone.” India, which played its first long format game against Australia in 15 years, had also drawn its last Test against England in June. “The four-day format is fine for now. We played three-day games back in the day. As it is, there are only three countries (India, Australia, England) that are playing Tests in women’s cricket at the moment and India just started playing again. She said the focus should be on making a one-off Test part of the full fledged series and restart red-ball cricket on domestic circuit. Another former India captain, Shantha, echoed Edulji’s views. “Results should come in four days only. It is more than enough. There was too much time lost to the weather in this game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/edulji-shantha-prefer-four-day-tests-as-they-feel-its-more-than-enough/article36833014.ece
05 October 2021||Paris,||Mbappe’s PSG departure move||Kylian Mbappe on Monday confirmed that he told Paris Saint-Germain in July he wanted to leave the club. “I said at the end of July that I wanted to leave,” Mbappe said in an interview with RMC radio. “My position has been clear. I said I wanted to leave and I told them (PSG management) quite early on.” The French World Cup winner has not extended his contract at PSG, fuelling speculation he will seek a move to Real Madrid at the end of the season. The Spanish giant bid €180 million for Mbappe in August but PSG, which had just signed Lionel Messi from Barcelona, turned down the offer. At the time, PSG’s sporting director Leonardo said Mbappe could “leave or stay on our conditions”. Mbappe said he eventually told PSG “if you don’t want me to leave, I will stay”. “People said I had refused six or seven offers to extend and that I never talk to Leonardo, which is absolutely not true,” he added. Mbappe, who joined PSG from Monaco for a deal worth a total of €180 million in 2017, said he had offered to leave the club in July to allow PSG to find “a quality replacement”. “I wanted everyone to be in a win-win situation,” he said. “Paris is a club that has given me a lot, where I’ve always been happy for the four years I have spent here and I am still happy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mbappes-psg-departure-move/article36833017.ece
05 October 2021||Hockenheim (Germany),||Driving error costs Maini podium||Indian driver Arjun Maini displayed impressive pace at the Hockenheim race circuit before an error spoilt his weekend in the DTM Championship, here. The Mercedes-AMG driver had one of his most productive weekends at the penultimate round of the DTM Championship with the Indian firmly establishing himself at the front of the field. He finished eighth overall during the second race. A good bet Maini looked a good bet to secure his first podium finish of the season after a strong first free practice session that left him at the top of the standings for the first time this year. Maini failed to capitalise on his strong pace with the usually composed Mercedes driver, making a rare driving error as the field made its way towards the circuit’s hairpin on the first lap. He misjudged his braking and careened into the fellow Mercedes driver Lucas Auer, with the ensuing impact ending his race prematurely. The mistake also earned Maini a five-place grid penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/driving-error-costs-maini-podium/article36832759.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||It is crunch time for MI and Royals||It is nail-biting times at the IPL for most teams. Two of them, Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals, come face to face at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Tuesday. Though three teams — CSK, DC and RCB — have qualified for the playoffs with two matches for each to spare, the remaining slot is still up for grabs. Four-way contest Royals and MI are very much in contention; so are Kolkata Knight Riders and Punjab Kings; the latter, though, is the worst-placed among the contenders as it is on 10 points with just a game in hand. While Royals are in familiar territory, the Mumbai men would be desperate to keep their reputation in tact. For the tournament’s most successful team — with five titles — this has been a season of disappointment.  Rohit Sharma’s men could still dream of an unprecedented hat-trick of trophies, but they cannot afford to wait any longer to get their act together. Time to step up They need a few from their long list of match-winners — including Kieron Pollard, Hardik Pandya, Suryakumar Yadav, Quinton de Kock, Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult — to come up with major contributions. Royals may have been handicapped in the second phase by the absence of Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler and Jofra Archer, but they could take heart from the way Yashasvi Jaiswal, Shivam Dube, Evin Lewis and skipper Sanju Samson chased down a formidable target set by Dhoni’s men in their last match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-is-crunch-time-for-mi-and-royals/article36832837.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Even lightning couldn’t take the thunder away from India in pink ball Test||Smriti Mandhana’s flowing off-side drives, Jhulan Goswami’s impeccable line-and-length, Meghna Singh’s swing, Punam Raut’s bold decision to walk... India’s women cricketers ensured that their first outing with a pink ball under lights was a memorable one. Dominant show Lightning and rain may have forced the one-off Day-Night Test to end in a draw at Carrara on Sunday, but India did remarkably well to dictate terms against a formidable and more experienced Australian team right from the opening hour. Captain Mithali Raj called it one of India’s “most dominating performances” ever in a Test. It certainly was. The Aussies were forced to chase the game throughout after Meg Lanning won the toss and invited India to bat. If much of the first two days hadn’t been lost to bad weather, Mithali’s women would have been in a great position to press for a win. Replying to India’s 377 for eight declared, the host was in the danger of a follow-on. It was averted by a resolute, unbeaten 68 off 203 balls by the magnificent Ellyse Perry. The Indians may have been undone by the elements, but before the Test, they had put an end to Australia’s stunning streak of 26 ODI wins. They took that momentum to the Test. That they had just two training sessions with the pink ball in the run-up to the Test seemed irrelevant. Forget the pink ball, the Indian women are not used to playing much even with the red one. The Test against England at Bristol in June was their first in seven years. Unlike the Test in Carrara, the Indians had to play catch up in England. They did that in some style. Snatching a draw Following on, debutants Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia’s heroic, unbroken 104-run stand for the ninth wicket helped India snatch a draw from the jaws of defeat. Mithali said India could take away a lot of positives from the Tests against England and Australia. “Sneh, Taniya and Deepti Sharma did well in England,” she said. “In Australia, Smrti’s hundred was fabulous. All our seamers bowled well too. Along with Jhulan, the two young seamers (Meghna and Pooja Vastrakar) have really stood up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/even-lightning-couldnt-take-the-thunder-away-from-india-in-pink-ball-test/article36832843.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nandini beats Saumrita||Qualifier Nandini Dixit fought her way past Saumrita Verma 7-6(4), 7-6(7) in the under-16 girls first round of the National sub-junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Monday. In another lively match, Sreenidhi Balaji beat Manognya Madasu 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 in the same section. In the under-14 girls section, lucky loser Anandi Bhutada beat qualifier Jaya Kapoor 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 to set up a second round against seventh seed Priyanka Rana.  The results (first round):   Under-16 girls: Saina Deshpande bt Shagun Kumari 6-3, 7-5; Riya Sachdeva bt Sweta Rana 6-1, 6-1; Nandini Dixit bt Saumrita Verma 7-6(4), 7-6(7); Sukhmanni Bhandari bt Sreenidhi Reddy 6-1, 6-3; Sreenidhi Balaji bt Manognya Madasu 6-3, 3-6, 6-2; Samya Sikand bt Suyash Chaudhary 6-0, 6-3; Pushti Laddha bt V.Anya Arora 6-1, 6-0; Niyati Kukreti bt Lagan Budhiraja 6-0, 6-0; Saumya Ronde bt Suhani Gaur 6-3, 6-2; Lakshmi Gowda bt Harshini Viswanath 6-2, 6-0; Asmi Adkar bt Ikaraju Kanumuri 6-1, 6-2; Ananya SR bt Khushi Ghulati 6-1, 6-0.   Under-14 boys: Shanker Heisnam bt Kanj Shah 4-6, 6-3, 6-1; Dhiraj Reddy bt Abhiram Nilakhe 6-2, 0-6, 6-4; Tanuush Ghildyal bt Arnav Yadav 6-2, 7-6(11); Advik Natekar bt Samarth Sahita 6-7(4), 6-4, 6-4; Pratyushraj Goel bt Panshul Uboveja 7-6(2), 3-6, 6-3; Ashwajit Senjam bt Pranav Mishra 6-1, 7-6(4); V Thirumurugan bt Arjun Rathi 6-4, 6-4; Rian Sharma bt Vyom Shah 7-5, 6-3; Dhruv Sachdeva bt Arya Ganapathy; 7-6(5), 6-1; Raghav Amin bt Kunsh Kakkar 6-3, 4-6, 4-0 (conceded); Aarav Chawla bt Dhruv Ghanghas 6-2, 5-7, 7-6(4); Swastik Sharma bt Shubham Sehrawat 3-6, 6-1, 7-5; Kriish Tyagi bt Letheesh Kombila 6-4, 6-2.   Under-14 girls: Devanshee Prabhudesai bt Krisha Dalal 6-4, 6-3; Rishitha Reddy bt Aditi Tyagi 6-1, 6-3; Prisha Shinde bt Shatakshi Chaudhary 6-0, 6-3; Harshini N bt Sejal Bhutada 6-0, 6-1; Janhvi Kajla bt Aarushi Raval 6-3, 6-0; Maaya Revathi bt Inaaya Mittal 6-0, 6-3; Vennela Reddy bt Neelakshi Lather 6-1, 6-1; Anandi Bhutada bt Jaya Kapoor 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Ishi Maheshwari bt Aakruti Sonkusare 7-6(5), 6-4; Prarthana Solanki bt Prachi Rana 7-5, 6-3; Harithashree Venkatesh bt Dheepa Yazhini 6-0, 6-2; Anushka Bhola bt Yashika 7-6(6), 6-1; Aditi Rawat bt Manognya Madasu 6-2, 6-1; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Avni Saharya 6-2, 6-3; Pehal Kharadkar bt Navya Sharma 6-2, 6-2; Nemha Sarah Kispotta bt Radha Sadhra 6-0, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nandini-beats-saumrita/article36833011.ece
05 October 2021||London,||ATP investigating allegations of abusive behaviour against Zverev||ATP on Monday announced that an internal investigation is currently underway into allegations concerning Alexander Zverev at the ATP Masters 1000 event in Shanghai in 2019. Notably, more than a year ago Zverev’s former partner —Olga Sharypova —alleged she was physically and emotionally abused by the German tennis star. Then just days before the 2021 US Open, a second interview was published by slate.com where she made further claims, as per ubitennis.  Taking note of the incident, the ATP has condemned any form of violence or abuse and stated that the organisation will investigate such allegations related to conduct at an ATP member tournament.ATP CEO Massimo Calvelli in a statement said: “The allegations raised against Alexander Zverev are serious and we have a responsibility to address them. Follow-up action “We hope our investigation will allow us to establish the facts and determine appropriate follow-up action. We understand Zverev welcomes our investigation and acknowledge that he has denied all allegations. We will also be monitoring any further legal developments following the preliminary injunction obtained by Zverev in the German Courts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atp-investigating-allegations-of-abusive-behaviour-against-zverev/article36833019.ece
05 October 2021||LIMA,||Nischal misses out||Nischal shot 619.8 and missed a medal by 0.2 point in the women’s 50m rifle prone event in the junior World shooting championship here. In the non-Olympic event, which does not have a final, Anna Janssen of Germany won with a score of 623.3, one point ahead of Olympic silver medallist Mary Carolynn Tucker of the US. Sheileen Waiber of Austria pipped Nischal to the bronze with 620.0. In the mixed skeet team event, Raiza Dhillon and Ayush Rudraraju shot 130 and placed seventh. The top four teams made the final. In women’s sports pistol, Manu Bhaker shot 293 to be placed second, one point behind Yana Chuchmarova of Ukraine, after the precision stage. Niveditha Nair followed close with 291. The top eight will qualify for the final after the rapid fire section.  The results:   Men: 50m rifle prone: 1. Soma Hammerl (Hun) 623.4, 2. Jiri Privratsky (Cze) 622.9, 3. Max Braun (Ger) 621.5; 7. Pankaj Mukheja 619.0; 14. Surya PratapSingh 615.4; 18 Nitish Kumar 611.0.   Women: 50m rifle prone: 1. Anna Janssen (Ger) 623.3, 2. Mary Carolynn Tucker (USA) 622.3, 3. Sheileen Waiber (Aut) 620.0; 4. Nischal 619.8; 21. Ashi Chouksey 614.0; 29. Ayushi Podder 611.8.   Mixed skeet team: 1. Italy 31 (144), 2. Romania 29 (138), 3. Greece 29 (134); 7. India-2 (Raiza Dhillon, Ayush Rudraraju) 130; 10. India (Areeba Khan, Abhay Singh Sekhon) 126 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nischal-misses-out/article36832760.ece
05 October 2021||New Delhi,||India’s women footballers hope to find limelight||Not a household name at the moment, Ritu Rani is banking on next year’s AFC Asian Cup to become one. So is Karishma Shirvoikar, and many others representing the senior Indian women’s football team. Ritu and Karishma feel hosting next year’s FIFA U-17 World Cup and Asian Cup will “change” the country’s women’s football scene. “This will definitely bring about a change in women’s football all over the country and girls would take it as a career option,” Karishma told PTI . Mid-fielder Ritu, who is known for her tackling and aerial ability, is satisfied with the way things are shaping up for the team. “Preparations are going on for AFC with the exposure tours and camps. “The teammates and coaching staff are supported well and the aim is to perform well in AFC Asian Cup,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-women-footballers-hope-to-find-limelight/article36833003.ece
05 October 2021||Paris,||Osaka drops out of top 10||Naomi Osaka dropped out of the world’s top 10 on Monday for the first time since winning the 2018 US Open title as she continues to take a break from tennis. The Japanese star, a former World No. 1, has not played since exiting the US Open in the third round last month. Osaka has fallen to 12th in the WTA rankings, her lowest mark since before her first of four Grand Slam titles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-drops-out-of-top-10/article36833228.ece
05 October 2021||BHOPAL,||Hockey domestic season begins||A total of 24 teams will vie for top honours at the inaugural sub junior academy national championship, marking the start of domestic hockey season in the country. The event began in Bhopal on Monday. After six days of pool matches, the quarterfinals will be played on October 10, the semifinals on October 12 and medal matches on Oct. 13.  The teams:   Pool A: Berar Hockey Academy (Vidarbha) Amravati, Naval Tata Hockey Academy (Jamshedpur) and Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre.   Pool B: Bhai Behlo Hockey Academy Bhagta, Namdhari XI and Olympian Vivek Singh Hockey Academy.   Pool C: Cheema Hockey Academy, Mumbai Schools Sports Association and Raja Karan Hockey Academy.   Pool D: Citizen Hockey XI, Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy Jarkhar (Ludhiana) and Roundglass Punjab Hockey Club Academy.   Pool E: Dhyan Chand Hockey Academy, Markandeshwar Hockey Academy and SAI Academy.   Pool F: Ghumanhera Riser's Academy, Malwa Hockey Academy Hanumangarh and SGPC Hockey Academy.   Pool G: HAR Hockey Academy, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy and Tamil Nadu Hockey Academy.   Pool H: HIM Academy, Jai Bharat Hockey Academy and Vadipatti Raja Hockey Academy .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-domestic-season-begins/article36833015.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Rajasthan United beats Ryntih SC||Rajasthan United FC defeated Ryntih SC 3-2 in the opening match of the I-League Qualifiers at the Bangalore Football Stadium here on Monday. Rajasthan United was 3-0 up till just before the 80th minute, after which Ryntih SC came back with two goals to mount a tough fight towards the dying minutes of the game.  The result: Rajasthan United 3 (Dilli Ram Sanyasi 11, Sukhjit Singh 45+1, Aman Thapa 68) bt Ryntih 2 (Banpynkhrawnam Nongkhlaw 79, Sheen Stevenson 82) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-united-beats-ryntih-sc/article36832761.ece
05 October 2021||Oslo,||Rohit reaches bronze play-off||Rohit pulled off a technical superiority win over Turkey’s Selahattin Kilicsallayan to progress to the 65kg bronze medal play-off at the wrestling World Championship here on Monday.  The results: Women: 62kg: Pre-quarterfinals: Lais Nunes De Oliveira (Bra) bt Sangeeta Phogat 6-4.   55kg: Quarterfinals: Pinki bt Aisha Ualishan (Kaz) by fall.   Men: 97kg: Qualification round: Minwon Seo (Kor) bt Satywart Kadian by VPO1; 70kg: Qualification round: Zurabi Iakobishvili (Geo) bt Sushil 5-1. 65kg: Repechage: Rohit bt Selahattin Kilicsallayan (Tur) by VSU1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-reaches-bronze-play-off/article36832763.ece
05 October 2021||DOHA,||Double whammy for India paddlers||The Indian doubles pairs of G. Sathiyan & Sharath Kamal and Harmeet Desai & Manav Thakkar lost in the men’s doubles semifinals of the Asian table tennis championships here on Monday. Harmeet and Manav rallied from a two-game deficit but fell short as Koreans Jong Woojin and Lim Jonghoon triumphed 11-4, 11-6, 10-12, 9-11, 11-8, while the Sharath-Sathiyan pair was outplayed by Yukiya Uda and Shunsuke Togami of Japan 11-5, 11-9, 13-11. India ended its campaign with three bronze medals — one in the men’s team event and two in men’s doubles.  The results (semifinals):   Men’s doubles: Jong Woojin & Lim Jonghoon (Kor) bt Harmeet Desai & Manav Thakkar 11-4, 11-6, 10-12, 9-11, 11-8; Yukiya Uda & Shunsuke Togami (Jpn) bt G. Sathiyan & Sharath Kamal 11-5, 11-9, 13-11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-whammy-for-india-paddlers/article36832842.ece
05 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Srichakri shines||P.K. Srichakri bowled well (four for 11) to help X Sense score a 107-run win over Royal Rudras in the Bezawada T20 invitation cricket tournament organised by GoSports Cricket Academy here.  The scores: Y Screens 120/6 in 20 overs bt Azam Army 88 in 16 overs (K. Sai Deep 4/22).     X Sense 146/8 in 20 overs (Naveen 3/38) bt RoyalRudras 39 iin 8.3 overs (P.K. Srichakri 4/11).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srichakri-shines/article36833236.ece
05 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Santosh and Nagarajan reign||Santosh Kumar and co-driver Nagarajan took top honours in the premier INRRC class in the first round of the JK Tyre FMSCI Indian national regularity run championship (South Zone), the first event of Utsav de Hampi, at Hampi. Vinay Kumar and Ravi Kumar claimed the INRRC title in the second round. Aparna Pathak and Lalitha Gowda won the Ladies Class, as well as the corporate class in the first round.  Provisional results (winners): Round 2: INRRC: Vinay Kumar & Ravi Kumar.   Open: Vinay Kumar & Ravi Kumar.   Round 1: INRRC : Santhosh Kumar & Nagarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santosh-and-nagarajan-reign/article36832762.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Greatness of the Vedas||In his Thirumandiram, Thirumoolar talks of the greatness of the Vedas, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Thirumoolar says some talk of righteous things, not mentioned in the Vedas. But, according to Thirumoolar, there are no dharmas that are not spoken of in the Vedas. Good scholars shun debates, which do not refer to the Vedas, says Thirumoolar. The Supreme Brahman is shown by the Vedas. There are some who study the Vedas, but their focus is on the Karma Kanda portion, which deals with rituals. They learn the relevant mantras required for rituals, but ignore the Jnana Kanda. The Jnana Kanda shows us the Supreme One, who is the embodiment of jnana. He who does not study the Jnana Kanda section, but merely recites mantras, will never realise the nature of Brahman. His external appearance may suggest a life of piety and learning, but it will not take him close to Brahman. One should meditate on Lord Siva, and think beyond the world of cit (sentient) and acit (non sentient). One should immerse oneself in Siva bhakti. There are those who worship the devas seeking boons of various kinds. Seldom do they praise Siva. This is due to their karma. Thirumoolar says the Vedas have six angas. These are — Siksa (phonetics); Vyakarana (grammar); Nirukta (etymology); Kalpa (rules regarding rituals); Chandas (prosody); Jyotisha (astronomy and astrology). Some study all these aspects of the Vedas well, and yet do not reap the benefits of such study, because they fail to worship Siva, says Thirumoolar. Literature, music and dance impart good qualities to people. But some people use their skills in the fine arts to make money. Similarly, some who study the Vedas use their knowledge to earn money. The purpose of Vedic study is the realisation of Siva, says Thirumoolar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/greatness-of-the-vedas/article36832803.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — October 5, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-5-2021/article36833488.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sound of sass||Nikhita Gandhi cherishes the feedback she is receiving for her recently released single ‘Bad Boy X Bad Girl’ with rap artist Badshah. The video features Toofaan -fame Mrunal Thakur sensuously grooving to this fun number. “I have done singles before but this song is a class apart. This is the first non-film collaboration with Badshah. His music is always of international standard,” says the multilingual playback singer, over the phone from Mumbai. Does Nikhita anticipate more offers to be the voice for Mrunal? “I don’t mind,” laughs Nikhita and adds, “I believe when I sang ‘Burj Khalifa’, Kiara Advani also liked my voice, especially how I started the song; she wanted me to sing more songs for her.” The 2017 title song of Raabta , picturised on Deepika Padukone was the big-ticket number for Nikhita. “I have had the pleasure of singing some phenomenal songs like ‘Raabta’ and a variety of others in Bollywood. My niche is my versatility. Sometimes people say ‘Oh my god, you sang this one? It sounds so different’,” says Nikhita whose repertoire extends to playback singing in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Bengali films. “It doesn't matter who I am singing for, for me the song and the composers are important. I don’t pick according to how big or small the actors are, everybody starts from somewhere and becomes somebody.” If you are a trained singer living in Chennai, you cannot escape the ARR aura. Kolkata-born Nikhita Gandhi, while pursuing dentistry in Chennai, joined AR Rahman’s KM Music Conservatory to learn western classical music in her free time. Looking back She found herself spending more time there as part of the choir. As destiny had it, Rahman heard her voice and gave her a break in Kalyana Samyal Sadham (2013). What followed was a slew of offers from other film industries, an album in Bengali called Kotha and another biggie with Rahman ‘Ladio’ for Shankar’s I . She entered the Telugu film industry with ‘Beautiful Zindagi’ in Yevade Subramanyam . “When a break came from AR Rahman I was not even planning to be a playback singer, I was more into rock, and may have pursued that. Thanks to him, I was put on the singing map and a career in Bollywood got launched,” says Nikhita. With regional songs, what’s her trick to sound like a native singer? “I put myself in the person of that language and try to pretend. It’s sort of mimicry I suppose. I write lyrics in Hindi, it helps in being phonetically correct.” While indie music is considered a stepping stone to Bollywood, Nikhita started her music career as a playback singer first and moved to make independent music, including collaborating with American singer-songwriter Pink Sweat for a remix version of ‘At My Worst’. Nikitha rendered her part in Hinglish. “A lot of people listen to Indian songs even though they don’t understand them. This is a good time for a collaboration between Hindi and English,” says Nikhita who adds that she loves performing Latino numbers as well.  “It doesn't matter who I am singing for, for me the song and the composers are important. I don’t pick according to the big or small actors’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sound-of-sass/article36833139.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Who are men to empower women?||AR Rahman does not stop working. Among a slew of upcoming projects such as Cobra, Atrangi Re, Ayalaan, Heropanti 2 and Ponniyin Selvan , the composer has also collaborated with Expo 2020 Dubai to conceptualise a state-of-the-art music recording studio in the UAE, and pioneer an all-woman ensemble of musicians: The Firdaus Women’s Orchestra. The initiative brings together 50 talented women from across the UAE and wider MENA region to create a unique musical project, mentored by Rahman. The Oscar winner will be part of concerts with the orchestra at Expo 2020 Dubai, during which his compositions will be featured on stage. Described as a fusion of styles and genres, the ensemble comprises women of 23 nationalities, between the ages of 16 and 51, with Yasmina Sabbah as its conductor. Their music will draw on inspiration from the UAE region’s traditions, with instruments such as the oud, rebaba and darbuka. Ahead of the performance at the Expo, Rahman, talks to us on this project. You have always stated that you gain more when you mentor someone; is that your motive being part of this initiative? For me, teaching has always been about learning; when you give, you get. The world is in a very divisive place at the moment, and people are always going to fear what they don’t understand. So when this whole idea came up, it was such a great opportunity to get all these women from different nationalities to work together and create something beautiful. People watching them will also be from various parts of the world. From Syria and Lebanon to Oman and Armenia, this idea will hopefully be a culmination point for people to play music together, foster bonds and create understanding. What is different about collaborating with musicians from other cultures, outside India?  It’s been three months so far of rehearsals, and we are also building a studio. I feel in Dubai, everything revolves around progress.It’s a place where I see bikinis and burqas together in hotels; everything is so open and free. It’s a place that embraces everything and everyone, and lets them shine. The orchestra, of course, is all about the talent and expression. There’s quality and commitment to their vision, and coming from India, I feel honoured that I’ve been asked to mentor this initiative. Our first concert is on October 23. The word ‘Firdaus’ means something akin to a ‘garden of paradise’. Why did you choose this name for the orchestra?  In the philosophical context, music has different connotations in different cultures. In some, they refer to it as the unspoken language of God. In others, they say music takes you to a different realm. I wanted to remind everyone that there is a sense of everything coming to us from the creator. It’s also an ode to our mothers in a way; for the sons, it is claimed that paradise is found at the feet of their mother. Finally, it is also meant to bring about a special — not religious — connection; all these women are from different faiths but it is humanity that connects the soul. The term Firdaus seemed complementary to that ideology. You have batted to empower women, be it refusing to use sexist lyrics, or sticking up for your daughter’s viral post last year on her choice of clothing. Is this ensemble an extension of that ideology?  I have to say, kudos to Khatija! Now, we are all wearing burqas in a way with our masks, aren’t we? There is so much freedom; I can walk anywhere and nobody recognises me. Guess she proved a point to everyone after all ( laughs ). As for your question, well, who are men to empower women, first of all? Women don’t need us; they empower themselves. They are world leaders and heads of states today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-are-men-to-empower-women/article36833137.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||There’s bael in my vodka||Kokum mocktails, bael cocktails, Darjeeling tea coolers and chikoo -flavoured beer now jostle for space on Indian bar and dining menus. Drinks that hero indigenous ingredients are this year’s fastest growing trend, fuelled by a rising interest in regional produce combined with a pandemic-induced hankering for comforting childhood flavours. So bael ka sharbat now has a chic new avatar, as a bael cocktail at Sidecar in Delhi. It is a whiskey or vodka-based alcoholic drink with bael shrub. The inky blue pea flower, which grows wild in parts of India, has found its way into everything from tea to gin-based cocktails. And the Indian olive, or jalpai , infused iced tea has become an epicurean trend for cafe hopping Instagrammers in Imphal, Manipur. Eli Yambem of Manipur-based Dweller Teas says that well-travelled Indians, after experiencing a world of exotic flavours, are now looking for drinks that are both fresh and familiar. He says, “While regional cuisines are a hit, regional drinks too shouldn’t be overlooked. With the drying and preserving techniques that the F&B industry now uses, shelf lives of many seasonal fruits can be extended. The Indian olive, a sour fruit mostly found in the Northeast and in some parts of East and West Bengal for instance, is a highly perishable fruit, and is not well-known. I dried them to make a herbal infusion with roselle and the peel of a locally available lemon. The infusion has a lovely reddish hue and a delicious fragrance.” The Indian olive, like peach, is a stone fruit have a mild spicy fragrance and is extremely sour, which is why it works for Eli’s concoction. Eli adds that besides the drinks, his health-concious younger customers in particular, “want good food that also appeals to the eye and taste buds”. Japtej Ahulwalia and his team of barmen at Origins, a Chennai-based speciality bar, have moved away from artificial syrups and adopted many techniques to turn fresh seasonal fruits into syrups. In some cases they even use flowers like marigold, blue pea, elder flower and lavender, in their cocktails like No Name Cocktail, Black Forest Spritzer . Japtej says, “The end result is appealing both visually and on the palate. Synthetic flavours overshadow the liquor, because of the sweet content and added fragrances. That way, it becomes easy to cheat with cheap liqour in cocktails. We at Origins want cocktail and mocktail lovers to savour not only flavours of the additives, but of the liquor as well.” The other bar in Chennai that makes use of flavours derived from fresh fruits in their drinks is the bar at Novotel called KooX. Meanwhile Maharastra-based Priyanka Save runs Fruzzante, a brand of alco-beverage made from chikoo (Sapodilla) extracts. Being a farmer’s daughter, Priyanka says she knows the highly perishable chikoo like the back of her hand. “With my wine enthusiast husband Nagesh, I decided to overturn the depleted chikoo market after extensive experiments, extraction, fermentation, storage and packaging,” she says. After several trials with by-products, she realised that it is in the nature ofchikooto ferment. “From thereon, I decided to go with a cider-style beverage; that also allowed me to revive tradition and give consumers a chance to appreciate local spirits,” she says. Award-winning mixologist Yangdup Lama, founder of Delhi-based Sidecar, agrees with Priyanka. Now experimenting with fermented millet juice in cocktails, he says, “I take pride in experimenting with locally appreciated flavours. Consumers don’t want to simply gulp down something colourful and sweet anymore. They think of the aroma and taste notes. They want to try new Indian ingredients; it could be a flower or a spice.” Yangdup adds that “the well-travelled — whether in real time or through social media — are always looking at learning to taste and experience something new. I use a lot of vetiver, rhododendron flowers, Darjeeling tea, herbs and chillies to give that experience. Since there is a natural inquisitiveness to try new flavours, it becomes our responsibility to combine regional flavours, whether fruits, herbs and spice, to narrate an exciting story of the place it comes from.” One of the most popular local flavours now is the gondhoraj lebu , a highly scented lemon from West Bengal, with the kick of king chilli ( bhoot jolokia from Northeast India) in close pursuit. However, it is not just unfamiliar ingredients that are being appreciated; people are also redicovering familiar flavours. Nannari , a herbal drink made from the herb roots of the Nannari tree with origins in the Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh, is increasingly finding its place on the menu across southern India. Leaning on childhood memories, Subhasish Borah and Bidisha of Kohuwa Collective a collaborative space and slow food cafe in Guwahati recently introduced thekera sorbot ( kokum sherbet), teteli sorbot (tamarind sherbet) and ou tenga sorbot (elephant apple sherbet). Subhasish says “As a slow food cafe, Bidisha and I wanted to bring back regional drinks. Assamese thekera sorbot is different from the ones made in the coastal region. The kokum found in Assam is kuji thekera which belongs to the garcinia family. We decided to make a drink with elephant apple because we wanted to introduce the unique flavour of this fruit, which is otherwise used as souring agent in curries, in a more versatile manner.” Ankita Sehgal, founder of Jeeru, a Madhya Pradesh-based bottled carbonbated drink, feels that even jeera (cumin) flavoured bottled drinks are slowly gaining popularity. Ankita says, “It has a huge potential as a mocktail mix. Its popularity could be because jeera -flavoured drinks pairs well with all Indian cuisine.” After all, you can’t go wrong when banking on the flavours of the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/theres-bael-in-my-vodka/article36833140.ece
05 October 2021||Pune,||Schools reopen in Maharashtra||After staying shut for over one-and-a-half years due to COVID-19, schools reopened across Maharashtra on Monday for students of Class V to XII in rural areas and VIII to XII in urban pockets. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the decision to reopen schools in the State was tough and urged parents to take care of their children’s health. “Let us try and ensure that schools that we have re-opened today will not have to be shut anytime soon. Care must be taken by staff to ensure that classroom windows are kept open and rooms are ventilated,” said Mr. Thackeray, adding that the government was in regular consultation with the State COVID-19 task force. Mr. Thackeray, along with School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad and other authorities of the education department and the COVID-19 task force, was speaking during an online interaction with parents and students. Ms. Gaikwad said all efforts would be made to improve the quality of education to make up for the losses incurred by students due to the closure of schools. A decision to reopen schools in a phased manner was taken last month following a survey conducted by the School Education Department. It is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes and parents have been asked to fill consent forms before sending their wards. Students appeared excited while entering the schools and meeting their friends, classmates and teachers after a long gap. At the school gates, authorities ensured that all the students wore proper masks and sanitised their hands before entering the premises. Distancing was ensured in classrooms too by allowing only one student to sit on a single bench. Lowest cases Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 2,026 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest after February 2, and 26 deaths on Monday, taking the tally of infections to 65,62,514 and the fatalities to 1,39,233, a health department official said. On February 2, Maharashtra had reported 1,927 COVID-19 cases. Maharashtra’s case recovery rate now stands at 97.31 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.12 per cent. On Monday, nine districts and four municipal corporations did not report any new COVID-19 case. At 339, Mumbai reported the highest number of cases in the last 24 hours, the health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-reopen-in-maharashtra/article36833151.ece
05 October 2021||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar showers praise on Gadkari||The recent shower of praises by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leadership on Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari is in stark contrast with the party’s sour relations with the BJP’s State leadership, especially former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “Many a time, nothing moves for years after the stone laying ceremony of a project. But if that ceremony is at a programme of (Nitin) Gadkari, then changes are visible within two to three days,” said NCP chief Sharad Pawar at a programme in Ahmednagar district on October 2 where he was sharing the dais with Mr. Gadkari. Mr. Pawar’s praise did not stop there. He said whenever he visited any part of the country and witnesses good roads, the local officers and elected representatives thanked Mr. Gadkari for it. The admiration is mutual. Since the formation of the tripartite alliance in the State, Mr. Gadkari has refrained from attacking the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and has, instead, focused only on making announcements of his departments and holding official meetings. From the ’90s The bonhomie between the Pawar family and Mr. Gadkari dates back to the ’90s when the latter was heading the State unit of the BJP. “It was also because late Gopinath Munde was a bitter critic of Mr. Pawar. The cold war between Mr. Gadkari and Mr. Munde over supremacy in the party is well known. The closeness between Mr. Gadkari and Mr. Pawar has its roots since then,” said Abhay Deshpande, political commentator and senior journalist. However, in the present context when Mr. Gadkari has become a non-player in the State unit of the BJP, thanks to Mr. Fadnavis, the NCP leadership singing paeans of the Union Minister is also being seen as a taunt to Mr. Fadnavis. Mr. Gadkari’s influence in State BJP has gone down for the last four years. This became evident when his loyalist Chandrashekhar Bawankule was denied a ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections. Later, his choice of candidate was not even considered in the run up to the MLC polls in Nagpur graduate constituency. The NCP leader is not alone in his praise. In the last week of September, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, while sharing the dais with Mr. Gadkari at a programme in Pune, compared the Minister’s work with that of late Yashwantrao Chavan (State’s first CM) and Sharad Pawar (as Union Minister). “MPs and MLAs of any party can approach him any time if they need help from the Union government,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sharad-pawar-showers-praise-on-gadkari/article36833161.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Nilgiris as a sundowner||The story of this gin begins in the Nilgiris, five years ago. The late chairman Neelakanta Rao Jagdale of Bengaluru-based Amrut Distilleries was holidaying in Udhagamandalam when he thought of creating a distilled gin using botanicals and spices from South India. After a visit to the Government Medicinal Plant Development Area at Doddabetta, he learnt about the medicinal plants used for therapeutic oils. Amrut’s Nilgiris gin launched in December 2020 is now available in the US, UK, Europe and Singapore. “Our whiskeys are already available in 58 countries. We want to grow further. We are working on new gins with Indian botanicals that highlight the variety of flavours that our country is known for. We are doing trials now to finalise the recipe,” says Nikhil Varma, gin distiller for Amrut. While the Nilgiris gin came with a bouquet of 10 botanicals including juniper berries, coriander seeds, lemongrass, angelica roots, orris roots, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, Nilgiris tea and paan (betel leaves), the new gins will also have unique botanicals and interesting flavour profiles. Nikhil says the Nilgiris mountain range has a vast area dedicated to tea plantations, its tea, which represents the hills was the first choice. “Nilgiris tea gives the floral, yet complex muskiness that stands out. I distilled some green tea and black tea varieties before choosing the right one that has a bit of dryness, florals, and a hint of spices. It adds an extra dimension. We have used Italian juniper berries, a primary botanical with all-purpose flavours of pine, lavender, rose, and citrus. Coriander seeds, a floral spice, complements the soft citrus of juniper and I explored lemon grass to bring the zesty note,” says Nikhil. The last botanical came in the form of betel leaves: the spicy and floral variety from Mysuru and the juicy, sweet variety from Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-nilgiris-as-a-sundowner/article36833138.ece
05 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong., BJP facing internal strife in candidates’ selection in Rajasthan||Internal rivalries, influence of local leaders and political interference by the dominant communities are some of the factors facing both the ruling Congress and the Opposition BJP during the exercise to select candidates for the upcoming by-elections to two Assembly seats in Rajasthan. The voting for bypolls in Udaipur district’s Vallabhnagar and Pratapgarh district’s Dhariawad constituency will be held on October 30. Election was necessitated after the death of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat on January 20 and BJP legislator from Dhariyawad Gautam Lal Meena on May 19. Both of them died of COVID-19 infection. Two-time MLA Mr. Shaktawat was a loyalist of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and had camped at an undisclosed location in Haryana along with the rebel Congress legislators during the political crisis last year. At least two of his family members have staked their claim to get the party ticket. The Congress may nominate Mr. Shaktawat’s wife Preeti in an attempt to get sympathy votes at the seat, which has traditionally been the party’s stronghold. However, Mr. Shaktawat’s brother Devendra Shaktawat, who is also a strong claimant, may oppose her candidature and try to mobilise the Congress workers in his own support. Tough choice The BJP faces a tough choice in Vallabhnagar, as the proposed move to bring the popular leader and former MLA Randhir Singh Bhindar back to the party fold is being opposed by an influential section. After his victory on the BJP ticket in 2003, Mr. Bhindar had left the party and won the 2013 Assembly election as an independent candidate. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, considered the BJP’s seniormost leader in the Mewar region, is reportedly against any move to re-induct Mr. Bhindar into the party. Mr. Bhindar had formed an outfit, Janata Sena, while contesting the two previous polls and ensured the defeat of BJP candidates, who had finished third in the contest both the times. In the Dhariawad constituency, the BJP may field either the late Mr. Meena's son Kanhaiya Lal or an influential local leader, Khet Singh Meena, as its candidate. The Congress is considering the names of Zila Pramukh Indira Meena, wife of Pratapgarh MLA Ramlal Meena, and Nagraj Meena, who has contested the Assembly election five times in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-bjp-facing-internal-strife-in-candidates-selection-in-rajasthan/article36833148.ece
05 October 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal violence: CBI, SIT submit probe reports before High Court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing post-poll violence in West Bengal, submitted their reports to the Calcutta High Court on Monday. A Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Rajarshi Bharadwaj said that the CBI has registered 40 FIRs so far and filed chargesheets in seven cases. “Status report has also been filed by CBI in a sealed cover. It was opened. Briefly it mentions that total 40 FIRs were registered. After investigation chargesheets have been filed in seven cases,” the order read. A five-judge Bench of the High Court on August 19 had directed CBI and SIT to investigate the post-poll violence in West Bengal. ‘Not consulted’ The High Court, however, pointed out that the SIT has not consulted retired Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Manjula Chellur who was appointed by the Court to oversee functioning of the SIT. “Vide order dated September 03, 2021, we had requested Hon’ble Ms. Justice Manjula Chellur, retired Chief Justice of this Court to monitor working of SIT. However, it was not disputed that for the aforesaid purpose she was not taken into confidence,” the court said. The Bench also directed to provide security cover to Ms. Chellur considering the seriousness of the matter. The Division Bench of the High Court also observed that there are no minutes of meeting of the SIT placed on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bengal-violence-cbi-sit-submit-probe-reports-before-high-court/article36833149.ece
05 October 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Burglar’s 35-year-long run ends||A 59-year-old man, who reportedly admitted to having single-handedly stolen over Rs. 5 crore in the past 35 years , was arrested by city police on Monday. Hemanta Dash had carried out his first burglary at the age of 24. “In 1980s, Dash was studying in BJB College, a premier government-run college of the State. In connection with a clash, he was sent to jail. The man met a burglar there. Subsequently, he started his burglary journey by breaking open houses,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police Uma Shankar Das. A special squad of Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Commissionerate Police nabbed him on Monday for his alleged involvement in 82 recorded cases. He was last arrested in Bhubaneswar in 2018. ‘Crowbar man’ Dash used crowbar to break doors and lockers for which police investigators had nicknamed him as ‘crowbar man’. “He targeted closed houses and commercial establishments with the help of a crowbar. He started his burglary at the age of 24 with his associates who are, mostly dead. He preferred to steal cash,” said the police. During interrogation, Dash, according to police, admitted to having committed burglaries in over 500 places in the country. He used to travel to different cities by flight and stay in expensive hotels. He had looted more than Rs. 5 crore in his life, but has spent the entire looted money in brothels and wine. “After every loot, he used to travel to places like Gangtok, Kolkata, Bihar, Mumbai, Chennai and Shimla,” the police said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/burglars-35-year-long-run-ends/article36833150.ece
05 October 2021||Kozhikode,||Calicut airport set to widen perimeter road||The authorities at the Calicut airport have begun the process to widen the perimeter road following an observation by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) that the narrow road posed problems during rescue operation after the Air India Express crash last August. Airport Director R. Mahalingam said that the Department of Civil Engineering at the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) had already been tasked to prepare a report to widen the 10-km perimeter road which surrounds the airport. “The road has varying width on the uneven terrain. We hope to obtain the report within two months and begin the work,” he told The Hindu on Monday. The AAIB, which probed the accident on August 7, said that the perimeter road is 4.9-m wide and it should be wide enough to facilitate quick movement of emergency vehicles. During the rescue operations, the narrow perimeter road got blocked with emergency vehicles, airport vehicles and taxis, leading to serious delays. The perimeter road at the Calicut airport, its report said, was found to be narrow and had sharp turns. That largely affected the speed of the emergency vehicles, including airport crash fire tenders, and the overall response time during exigencies. This was also a recurring observation during mock emergency exercises as well as during Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) audits, the AAIB pointed out. Incidentally in November 2019, the DGCA, during its surveillance, had made an observation that the road should be capable of supporting heavy firefighting vehicles in order to achieve the required response time with adequate safety. However, the observed deficiencies still existed on the date of the accident. During a DGCA audit in May 2016, an airport crash fire tender met with an accident while trying to negotiate through the narrow perimeter road to demonstrate the emergency response time. Then also it commented that “the existing perimeter road is not capable of supporting heavy firefighting vehicles, the same should be strengthened and widened.” In its report, the AAIB also said that all available means of transportation such as airport ambulances, taxis and even private vehicles were used for transporting the injured passengers to various hospitals and a large number of passengers were transferred to nearby hospitals even before the ambulances from the hospitals could reach the crash site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/calicut-airport-set-to-widen-perimeter-road/article36832828.ece
05 October 2021||Mumbai,||Non-cognisable offence registered against Javed Akhtar over RSS jibe||The Mumbai police have registered a non-cognisable (NC) offence against Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar on Monday over his alleged remark against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on a complaint filed by a lawyer, a senior police officer said. Earlier in the day, a Mumbai police officer and the complainant lawyer had said that an FIR was registered against Mr. Akhtar. Later in the day, Mulund police station Senior Inspector Avinash Bhise clarified that an NC was registered and not FIR as told by the officer earlier. Complainant Santosh Dubey has made and circulated a video of himself claiming that the police had registered an FIR against Mr. Akhtar (76) based on his complaint. The lawyer had last month sent a legal notice to Mr. Akhtar for allegedly making “false and defamatory” remarks against the RSS in an interview to a news channel and had sought an apology from him. In the said interview, Mr. Akhtar allegedly drew parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists. Mr. Dubey in his notice had claimed that by making such statements, Mr. Akhtar committed an offence under IPC Sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation). “I had earlier sent a legal notice to Mr. Akhtar and asked him to apologise over his remark, but he fail to do so. Now, an FIR has been registered against him on my complaint,” the lawyer had said. Mr. Bhise said, “We have registered an NC (non-cognisable offence) under section 500 (punishment for defamation) of the IPC against Mr.Akhtar. Further investigation is underway.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/non-cognisable-offence-registered-against-javed-akhtar-over-rss-jibe/article36833157.ece
05 October 2021||Dehradun,||Will take strict action in attack on church case: Uttarakhand DGP||Strict action will be taken against those who vandalised a church in Haridwar’s Roorkee, said Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar on Monday, a day after the incident. The police are yet to make an arrest in the case. Sources said police teams are raiding different places in the search of the accused but so far no success has been achieved. A mob had vandalised the church, alleging that religious conversions were being carried out there. Mr. Kumar said incidents of assault and vandalism are “not acceptable” under any circumstances. “We have instructed officers to take strict action against those involved in the act,” he said. Mr. Kumar said adequate number of police personnel have been deployed in the church and surrounding areas. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government issued a notification empowering the DMs of all 13 districts to use the National Security Act for three months from October to December in view of the possibility of incidents of violence in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-take-strict-action-in-attack-on-church-case-uttarakhand-dgp/article36833158.ece
05 October 2021||October 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain impact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rain-impact/article36832831.ece
05 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Terminal 1 to reopen from October 20||The Mumbai airport authority have announced to reopen Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flights starting October 20. After brief resumption in March, 2021, operations at T1 were suspended and were consolidated through Terminal 2. “The resumption of services at T1 will help maintain social distancing measures, uphold passenger safety and ensure a seamless transit,” the airport operator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/terminal-1-to-reopen-from-october-20/article36833147.ece
05 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests former Unitech promoter’s wife and father||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested three persons, including former Unitech group promoter Sanjay Chandra’s wife Preeti Chandra and his father Ramesh Chandra, in connection with a money-laundering probe. The third accused has been identified as Rajesh Malik. Mr. Ramesh Chandra is the founder of the Unitech Limited. Mr. Sanjay Chandra and his brother Ajay Chandra were earlier arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi police in 2017 on the allegation of cheating home buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ed-arrests-former-unitech-promoters-wife-and-father/article36833159.ece
05 October 2021||Kota,||Two killed as truck rams motorcycle in Rajasthan||Two men were killed when a pickup truck collided head on with their motorcycle on the Jhalawar–Bhopal highway in Rajasthan's Jhalawar district, police said on Monday. Th dead were identified as Jugal Prajapati (19) and Nanuram Prajapati (60). Police have registered a case against the driver, who fled the scene.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-killed-as-truck-rams-motorcycle-in-rajasthan/article36833152.ece
05 October 2021||IMPHAL,||Vice-President to visit Manipur from today||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu is arriving here on Tuesday on a two-day official visit. This is his first visit to Manipur as Vice-President. Police have been carrying on cordon and search operations to ensure that there is no law and order problem during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vice-president-to-visit-manipur-from-today/article36833154.ece
