06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS to spend Rs. 3,000 cr. for Dalit Bandhu first phase||The State government has announced its resolve to implement Dalit Bandhu, the flagship programme for empowerment of Dalits, spending around Rs. 2,500 crore to Rs. 3,000 crore by March next year. After announcing the decision to implement the pilot project in Huzurabad Assembly constituency and four mandals in different constituencies in saturation mode, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said 100 families each in the remaining Assembly constituencies would be extended the benefit of Rs. 10 lakh grant without bank linkages before the end of the current financial year. The government, he said, plans to allocate Rs. 20,000 crore in the next year’s budget for Dalit Bandhu enabling coverage of around 200 families each in all the 119 Assembly constituencies of the State. The Chief Minister said that there would not be any pressure on the beneficiaries regarding the activity they wanted to take up using Dalit Bandhu funds nor would there be any restrictions on the number of businesses they wanted to start under the scheme. Groups for business They could even form groups for starting their enterprise if the business they planned required higher investments. “They can start their business anywhere in the State. Their activities should however be uploaded on a constant basis to ensure their effective monitoring,” he said. There was no special criterion evolved for the scheme and being from a Dalit family was the only eligibility criterion for availing the benefits under the scheme. The Chief Minister was replying to an elaborate debate on the Dalit Bandhu that came up under short discussion in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Replying to queries from the members, he said the government wanted to get the experiences in the implementation of the scheme in select constituency, four mandals and 100 families in each of the remaining segments spending around Rs. 3,000 crore before the year-end. “Based on the experience, improvements can be made and the scheme can be scaled up thereafter,” he said. Asserting that there no precedent to Dalit Bandhu like scheme anywhere, he said the government initially planned to implement the scheme selecting 100 beneficiaries each from all the 119 constituencies. But changes have been made in view of the significantly improved finances. Economic growth “Telangana has registered 11.5 % economic growth in spite of the losses suffered on account of coronavirus,” he said. The scheme would cover all the close to 18 lakh Dalit families, including those belonging to employees, totaling an expenditure of Rs. 1.8 lakh crore. Responding to doubts over the way finances would be mobilized for such massive scheme, he said economic dynamics of the State had been worked out and it was estimated that Rs. 23 lakh crore would be spent in the next seven years. “Implementation of Dalit Bandhu would form some percentage of the estimated spending,” he averred adding that all schemes aimed for Dalits, including loans from SC Corporation and scholarships would continue as usual in spite of the new scheme. He asserted that the scheme would be implemented without giving scope for politics and all the families, irrespective of their party affiliation would be covered under it. Responding to suggestions from the Opposition parties, he said the government was not averse to giving statutory backing to the scheme by enacting a legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-ready-to-spend-rs-3000-crore-for-dalit-bandhu-first-phase-cm/article36850707.ece
06 October 2021||GUNTUR,||Awareness drive on menstruation and hygiene in govt. schools: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said an awareness campaign will be launched on menstruation and hygiene in all government schools and colleges. “Every month, awareness classes will be taken up by women teachers, ANMS and women police personnel for the students of classes 7 to 12,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while addressing the students across the State after virtually launching the ‘Swechha’ programme. Under the programme, quality sanitary napkins would be provided to over 10 lakh students studying in the above classes at a cost of Rs. 32 crore. Each student would be receiving 120 napkins every year. “The students will also be taught about proper disposal of sanitary pads and where separate dustbins and 6,417 incinerators have been provided under the Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) initiative,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “According to a UN report, almost 23% percent of girls in India drop out of schools and colleges during menstruation period. In order to check the trend, the State government has been taking various measures – from improving toilets in all the government institutions under the Nadu-Nedu initiative to launching the Swechha programme” the Chief Minister said. He said sanitary napkins would also be sold at Cheyutha shops at affordable rates. Later, the Chief Minister released a poster on the Swechha programme. Minister for Women and Child Welfare T. Vanitha, while welcoming the initiative for the benefit of adolescent girls, said a nodal officer would monitor the distribution in every school. Branded napkins would be available at the Cheyutha stores, she added. She said napkins were being procured from Procter & Gamble and nine other companies. “Stocks required for October and November have already been sent to schools,” she said. Education Minister A. Suresh, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Women and Child Welfare Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha, Social Welfare Principal Secretary K. Sunitha, Tribal Welfare Secretary Kantilal Dande, and Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamaneni Bhasker were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/awareness-drive-on-menstruation-and-hygiene-in-govt-schools-says-jagan/article36850347.ece
06 October 2021||LAKHIMPUR KHERI,||Kin of farmer demand second autopsy, say bullet injury ignored||The family of one of the four farmers killed at Tikonia village here in Uttar Pradesh in the violent incident involving the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra on Tuesday demanded that a fresh autopsy be conducted, refusing to accept the findings of the post-mortem report. The family of Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich said while the autopsy report showed that he had died of internal injuries, they alleged he had been shot dead by Ashish Mishra, the Minister’s son, while trying to evade agitated farmers after vehicles in the Minister’s convoy ploughed through the crowd. In the FIR lodged against Ashish Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri early on October 4 on the complaint of Hari Singh of Bahraich, it is mentioned that Ashish ran towards the sugarcane fields after his car lost balance, and he was firing shots while trying to hide. Hari Singh, the complainant, accused Ashish of shooting Gurvinder dead. The FIR was lodged under IPC 302, 304A and under criminal conspiracy among other charges. Fresh panel Following the family’s complaints, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the Uttar Pradesh government had formed a fresh autopsy panel and sent doctors to Bahraich in a helicopter, adding that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) was also not satisfied with Gurvinder’s autopsy report. The cremation of three other farmers had been carried out with the consent of their families, Mr. Tikait said. Sukhvinder Singh, Gurvinder’s father, alleged that his son died after being shot by Ashish. “He was shot. Teni’s (Ajay Kumar Mishra) son Monu (Ashish Mishra) shot him. They have presented a wrong autopsy report,” said Mr. Sukhvinder in Bahraich. The family has said it will not conduct the last rites till the demands for a fresh autopsy are met. Miskeen Singh, Gurvinder’s uncle, told The Hindu that they were sure he was shot, and shared a video in which a round injury mark was present near his temple. The family said the autopsy report did not reflect the bullet injury. Mr. Miskeen alleged it was being done to protect the Minister’s son, who has already been booked for murder in the car incident, and to make the case “weak”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kin-of-farmer-demand-second-autopsy-say-bullet-injury-ignored/article36850391.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,||City transport firm owner opens fire, bullet misses target but hits his son||A 16-year-old boy was seriously injured when a bullet hit him after his father, a transport firm owner, is said to have opened fire at two of his workers from his licensed weapon and missed the target in Mangaluru on Tuesday evening. The 16-year-old boy, Sudheendra, has been admitted in a private hospital in the city. According to the police, Rajesh Prabhu, owner of Vaishnavi X’press Cargo Pvt. Ltd., having office at Thumbay Residency near Morgan’s Gate in South Mangaluru, opened fire at the workers from his .32 bore pistol after a heated argument over payment of wages. Prabhu, accompanied by Sudheendra, rushed to his office from home with the weapon after his wife Shanthala Prabhu informed him over phone that a driver, Chandru, and a cleaner, Ashraff, were abusing her demanding payment of Rs. 4,000 in wages. Prabhu’s house and office are located close-by. On reaching the office at around 3.30 p.m., Sudheendra, a class X student, slapped the crew twice or thrice leading to commotion, while Prabhu pulled out the pistol and fired two rounds at the crew. The crew escaped from being hit by the bullets. However, one of the bullets hit Sudheendra above his left eye and went almost seven inches deep, according to Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar.  Mangaluru South Police have registered a case on a complaint filed by Mohan, an accountant with the firm. Investigation is on. Teams from Forensic Science Laboratory are assisting police in the investigation. The police are verifying CCTV footage from the firm as well as nearby locations. As it occurred in broad daylight in front of several people, the incident has sent shock waves among the residents of the area. The police are continuing to question Prabhu, while Sudheendra is in ICU of the hospital. Operating under brand name Vexpresscargo, Vaishnavi X’press Cargo Pvt. Ltd. provides daily parcel/cargo services, dedicated contract carriage, freight services, packing and movement of goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-transport-firm-owner-opens-fire-bullet-misses-target-but-hits-his-son/article36850887.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Most parts of T.N. likely to experience wet weather||Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain is set to roll through most parts of Tamil Nadu till the weekend. Some parts of the State may receive isolated heavy rain on Wednesday as a cyclonic circulation over the south-west Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood may influence wet weather. Moderate to heavy On Tuesday, rain lashed several parts of Chennai and its neighbouring districts during the day. Rain gauges in some places recorded moderate to heavy rainfall by evening. While Tirur in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram received a heavy rainfall of 11.3 cm and 10 cm, West Tambaram (9 cm) and Taramani (6 cm) too had heavy rainfall by 5.30 p.m. With intermittent rain and overcast sky, the day temperature in the city dropped to 28.9 degree Celsius, which is four degree Celsius lower than the average for Tuesday. Places in the suburbs seemed to have an edge over city localities. While the weather station in Nungambakkam recorded less than 1 cm of rainfall, Meenambakkam received 3 cm of rainfall till 5.30 p.m. Similarly, many other places across the State, including Valparai (5 cm) and Cuddalore (2 cm) received rain by evening. Officials of the Meteorological Department noted that eight districts, including the Nilgiris, Theni, Krishnagiri and Salem may have isolated heavy rain on Wednesday. Most other places in the State and Puducherry are likely to receive light to moderate rain till Friday. After a slight drop in intensity of rainfall on Thursday and Friday, heavy rain may occur in one or two places over Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram on Saturday. Moderate rain may lash many northern districts. In Chennai, thunderstorms with moderate rain are likely in some areas and it may be heavy at times till Thursday. The city is likely to have maximum temperature around 32 degree Celsius. 5 cm of rain so far Officials said the moist easterlies also aided in rain over coastal places. The State has registered 5 cm of rain so far against its October share of 18 cm. Conditions are becoming favourable for south-west monsoon to begin withdrawing from some parts of the country from Wednesday. It may take a week for it to completely retreat, an official said.   Eight districts, including the Nilgiris, Theni, Krishnagiri and Salem may have isolated heavy rain on Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/most-parts-of-tn-to-experience-wet-weather-till-the-weekend/article36850496.ece
06 October 2021||KAKINADA,||No-confidence motion against Kakinada Mayor, Deputy||A no-confidence motion was moved against Kakinada Mayor Sunkara Pavani and Deputy Mayor K. Sattibabu on Tuesday during a special council meeting convened by Joint Collector and Presiding Officer G. Lakshmisha. In September, the Council members met Collector Ch. Hari Kiran seeking the conduct of the special council meeting for the purpose. In a letter, they stated that the Mayor and Deputy Mayor were acting against the development of Kakinada. Out of a total of 48 corporators, 43 were present. Three corporators died, while one resigned. The lone BJP corporator did not take part. In the motion moved against Ms. Pavani (of the Telugu Desam Party), 33 corporators and the three ex-officio members raised their hands in favour of the no-confidence motion. However, ten corporators did not raise their hands either in favour of the motion or opposition to it. Ironically, none of the TDP corporators opposed the no-confidence motion against Ms. Pavani. In the last two years, 22 TDP corporators have joined the YSRCP and all of them supported the motion.The result will be announced after October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-confidence-motion-against-kakinada-mayor-deputy/article36850385.ece
06 October 2021||Stockholm,||Climate experts, theorist get Physics Nobel||U.S.-Japanese scientist Syukuro Manabe, Klaus Hasselmann of Germany, and Giorgio Parisi of Italy on Tuesday won the Nobel Physics Prize for climate models and the understanding of physical systems, the jury said. The Nobel committee said it was sending a message with its prize announcement just weeks before the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, as the rate of global warming sets off alarm bells around the world. “The world leaders that haven’t got the message yet, I’m not sure they will get it because we are saying it. But... what we are saying is that the modelling of climate is solidly based in physics theory,” said chair of the Nobel Committee for Physics Thor Hans Hansson. Dr. Manabe, 90, and Dr. Hasselmann, 89, share one half of the 10 million kronor ($1.1 million) prize for their research on climate models, while Dr. Parisi, 73, won the other half for his work on the interplay of disorder and fluctuations in physical systems. “Syukuro Manabe and Klaus Hasselmann laid the foundation of our knowledge of the earth’s climate and how humanity influences it,” the Nobel Committee said. “Giorgio Parisi is rewarded for his revolutionary contributions to the theory of disordered materials and random processes,” it added. “The discoveries being recognised this year demonstrate that our knowledge about the climate rests on a solid scientific foundation, based on a rigorous analysis of observations,” Mr. Hansson said. Dr. Manabe is affiliated with Princeton University in the U.S., while Dr. Hasselmann is a professor at the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology in Hamburg. Dr. Parisi, who also won the prestigious Wolf Prize in February, is a professor at the Sapienza University of Rome. Working in the 1960s, Dr. Manabe showed how levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere corresponded to increased earth surface temperatures. He was influential in developing the physical models of earth’s climate and worked on how exactly the heat energy received by earth from the sun radiates back into the atmosphere. Dr. Hasselmann was credited for working out how climate models can remain reliable despite sometimes chaotic variation in weather trends. The Committee praised his identification of climate “fingerprints” caused by both natural and human activities and how much climate change can be contributed solely to man-made emissions. Dr. Parisi was honoured for his work in the 1980s that was said by the committee to be “among the most important contributions” to the theory of complex systems. His work made it possible for physicists to understand apparently entirely random materials, with wide-ranging applications including mathematics, biology, and machine learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/climate-experts-italian-theorist-get-physics-nobel/article36850394.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Norms to reopen schools ready||Morning sessions, division of children in each class into batches, midday meals for students, and varying class interval timings are some of the broad directives put forward in the guidelines prepared in connection with reopening of schools in the State on November 1. The guidelines were handed over by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty and Minister for Health Veena George to Chief Miniser Pinarayi Vijayan here on Tuesday. These contain measures to be adopted by students, teachers, and parents against the backdrop of COVID-19 that is still a threat. Classes will be held in the mornings in the first phase. The number of children will be regulated by dividing them into batches. The attempt is to limit the number of batches to two so that one batch of students can come to school for three days in a week, followed by the other for the next three days. Digital classes will continue on the days the batches do not come to school. Only two children will be allowed on a bench. In schools where the student strength is less, the batch system need not be introduced. Schools will be given the flexibility to decide how to implement the batch system as per their local experiences. Midday meals Students will be provided midday meals in schools. Differently abled students need not come to school in the initial phase. Class interval times and the time at which school starts and ends should be staggered to prevent crowding of students. All teachers must come to school on working days. Teaching and non-teaching staff should have received two doses of vaccine.  School-level helplines should also be arranged. Schools must maintain registers to record students’ symptoms and arrange sick rooms for such students. The guidelines also go into detail about cleaning and disinfection of schools and equipping them to ensure student safety. At the school level, meetings of staff council, parent-teacher associations, and those of people’s representatives and other well-wishers should be held. Detailed guidelines on academic matters will be issued later. General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish and Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. were present. The guidelines will be approved after changes, if any, are incorporated, and a government order will then be issued in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/norms-to-reopen-schools-ready/article36850541.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka held; parties favour joint action||The Uttar Pradesh government formally arrested Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, along with nine other colleagues, on Tuesday for “breaching” prohibitory orders in attempting to reach Lakhimpur Kheri. The Congress and its allies, meanwhile, indicated joint Opposition action against the State government’s “oppression” after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Mr. Gandhi will address a press conference on Wednesday morning and is expected to head for Lakhimpur Kheri soon after. In a statement, Ms. Vadra questioned the legality of her “continuing confinement” and said she had neither been served any notice nor given a copy of the first information report (FIR) which has been circulated on social media. Four farmers were killed in Tikonia village of Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday when vehicles from the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra ploughed through a crowd of protesters. An FIR filed in Bahraich on Monday accused Ashish Mishra, son of Mr. Ajay Mishra of having driven his vehicle into the farmers.  D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-held-parties-favour-joint-action/article36850397.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,||Why was protection provided for Monson, HC asks State Police Chief||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State Police Chief (SPC) to file an affidavit stating whether the Crime Branch investigation in the cases against self-styled antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal would be effective when there are various allegations against police officers of various ranks. When a petition filed by E.V. Ajith, a former driver of Monson, alleging police harassment came up for hearing, Justice Devan Ramachandran asked the SPC why police protection was given to Monson when it was found that he was in possession of ‘fake’ articles. In fact, instead of taking action against Monson, the police gave him protection. The court said it wanted to know on what basis Monson had got police protection. The court pointed out that reports suggested that he was in the custody of things nobody had even heard of. Why then the police did not find this out even when police officers reportedly visited his residence, the court asked. The court asked the State Police Chief to inform the court how and why no suspicion was raised against Monson even though it was stated that his house was under police protection when articles such as elephants tusks (now stated to be not genuine) were reportedly in his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-was-protection-provided-for-monson-hc-asks-state-police-chief/article36850538.ece
06 October 2021||Stockholm,||Climate experts, theorist get Physics Nobel||U.S.-Japanese scientist Syukuro Manabe, Klaus Hasselmann of Germany and Giorgio Parisi of Italy on Tuesday won the Nobel Physics Prize for climate models and the understanding of physical systems, the jury said. The Nobel committee said it was sending a message with its prize announcement just weeks before the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow. “What we are saying is that the modelling of climate is solidly based in physics theory,” said chair of the Nobel Committee for Physics, Thor Hans Hansson. Mr. Manabe, 90, and Mr. Hasselmann, 89, share one half of the 10-million-kronor ($1.1-million) prize for their research on climate models, while Mr. Parisi, 73, won the other half for his work on the interplay of disorder and fluctuations in physical systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/climate-experts-theorist-get-physics-nobel/article36850570.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Six more held in Telugu Akademi fixed deposit scam||The Central Crime Station sleuths arrested another six persons involved in misappropriation of funds of Telugu Akademi taking the total number of arrested to 10. The three-member panel headed by Intermediate Education Commissioner Omar Jaleel has submitted its report to the Education Secretary after probing issues that resulted in misappropriation of huge funds lying in the banks as fixed deposits. Though content of the report is not available, the committee is learnt to have inquired into the departmental loopholes that gave scope for misappropriation of funds. The issue came to light after Telugu Akademi Director claimed Rs. 43 crore fixed deposits in the name of the Akademi in a branch of Union Bank of India was “fraudulently misappropriated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-held-in-telugu-akademi-fixed-deposit-scam/article36850712.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Police promotion rules revised||The State Cabinet on Tuesday approved the Karnataka State Police Cadre Rules, 2021, for reducing the number of years of service required to be eligible for promotion in the Police Department to four from five years. With this decision, police personnel who have served four years in the cadre of police constable to sub-inspector are eligible for promotion. As promotions were held back for many years, the rules have been relaxed to speed up the process of promotions in the lower cadre of the department, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. Sources said that relaxation of rules would help a large number of personnel to get promotion. Pension Mr. Madhuswamy said the monthly pension for persons aged above 65 under the Sandhya Suraksha scheme would be increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,200. This would benefit 36 lakh people and result in an additional burden of Rs. 207 crore to the State exchequer. The Cabinet gave administrative approval for the implementation of ultra high frequency (UHF) radio communication works of Rs. 14.65 crore under the police modernisation scheme in Bengaluru city. Under the scheme, the government would share the cost of Rs. 9 crore and the rest would be shared by the Centre (Rs. 5.65 crore). Administrative approval was given for release of Rs. 300 crore in 2021-22 for implementation of ‘Khar land project’ which stops, with the help of flap gates, the back surge of salt water due to high tides and floods in rivers in Uttara Kannada district. A sum of Rs. 1,500 crore has been set aside for the project in the Minor Irrigation Department. The project would prevent mixing up of river and sea water and it would help fishing and agricultural activities, the Minister said. Wind power It was decided to allocate 32 acres of land at Saundatti village in Saundatti taluk of Belagavi district for generation of wind power by Rohan Solar Power Ltd. of Bengaluru. The land would be provided on lease for a period of 30 years. Mr. Madhuswamy said the Cabinet approved creation of Hebri hobli in Hebri taluk of Udupi district. A total of 12 villages of Ajekar hobli and four villages of Kundapur hobli would come under the new Hebri hobli. It was decided to provide kits containing soaps, powder, and hair oil to students of residential schools and colleges at the cost of Rs. 24.85 crore. Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Ltd. would supply the kits, Mr. Madhuswamy said. A sum of Rs. 15 crore was approved for developing a two-lane highway between Khanapur and Talaguppa in Sirsi taluk of Uttara Kannada, the Minister said. A sum of Rs. 28.2 crore was been approved for construction of a protection wall at Hipparagi Barrage in Bagalkot district. Services of auditors S.B. Lokesh and T.S. Jayaramaiah in the Karnataka Lokayukta have been extended for one more year owing to the absence of eligible candidates in the body. The State Accounts Department has been facing a shortage of manpower and therefore it was decided to extend their services for one more year, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rules-on-police-promotion-revised/article36850427.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two-finger test not done, says IAF chief||The two-finger test was not done in the case involving a lady officer in Coimbatore and all disciplinary action recommended by the inquiry would be taken, said Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday. “Let me assure you that Air Force law is very strict on any such incidents. We have no latitude for any misconduct or moral turpitude cases. The two-finger test... that has been misreported. The actual fact is this has not been done. All disciplinary action that comes from this inquiry will be taken,” he asserted. In a First Information Report (FIR) registered on September 20 in Coimbatore, the woman officer said she was raped by her colleague, a flight lieutenant, under the influence of alcohol on September 10 and that she was subjected to the two-finger test, banned by the Supreme Court, at the Air Force Hospital later. Arrested Following this, the flight lieutenant was arrested by the Tamil Nadu police on September 25 and produced before the court on September 27 during which the lawyer of the accused argued that such cases can “only be heard by a defence court”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-finger-test-not-done-says-iaf-chief/article36850387.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Arrest those responsible, says Varun||BJP leader Varun Gandhi became the first ruling party MP to demand that a video, which reportedly shows protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri being mowed down by a vehicle said to belong to a BJP leader, be taken cognisance of by the police and the perpetrators arrested. In a tweet, the Pilibhit MP said the visuals were enough to “shake one’s soul”. Mr. Gandhi’s demand comes a day after he wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath demanding a CBI inquiry into the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, which has left nine people dead. He also sought compensation of Rs. 1 crore for the families of the deceased. The incident left the BJP on the back foot as an FIR was lodged against the son of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra who, several witnesses said, was in the car that ran over farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrest-those-responsible-says-varun/article36850389.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Moody’s gives ‘stable’ rating to India||Rating agency Moody’s Investors Service has upgraded India’s sovereign rating outlook to ‘stable’ from ‘negative’, citing an ebbing of risks from COVID-19 and the negative feedback between the real economy and the financial system. While it retained India’s rating at Baa3, reflecting the lowest investment grade rating, Moody’s said it expects real GDP to surpass pre-pandemic levels of 2019-20 this year itself, as the ongoing economic recovery is picking up steam with activity upticks broadening across sectors. It expects 2021-22 to record 9.3% growth in GDP, followed by 7.9% next year. In June 2020, Moody’s downgraded India’s sovereign rating to Baa3 from Baa2 with a negative outlook. On Tuesday, it said that downside risks to growth from subsequent coronavirus infection waves were mitigated by rising vaccination rates and more selective use of restrictions on economic activity. Moreover, higher capital cushions and greater liquidity suggests banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much less risk to the sovereign than Moody’s previously anticipated. “While risks stemming from a high debt burden and weak debt affordability remain, Moody’s expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile,” it said. Over the medium term, Moody’s expects real GDP growth to average around 6%, reflecting a rebound in activity to levels at potential as conditions normalize. “The growth projections take into account structural challenges, including weak infrastructure, rigidities in labour, land and product markets that continue to constrain private investment and contribute to post-pandemic economic scarring,” it explained. The normalisation of growth levels will enable a ‘gradual fiscal consolidation and stabilisation of the government's debt burden, albeit at high and above pre-pandemic levels’, the rating agency said. However, Moody’s said the higher debt burden and weaker debt affordability compared to pre-pandemic times is expected to persist, which is a key factor in its rationale for retaining the Baa3 rating as it would contribute to ‘lower fiscal strength’. This would offset India’s recent strong points such as narrower current account deficits and historically high foreign exchange reserves that have reduced the country’s vulnerabilities to external shocks. “India’s main credit challenges, its low per capita income and its weak fiscal position, which has been exacerbated by the coronavirus shock. India's general government debt burden increased sharply from 74% of GDP in 2019 to an estimated 89% of 2020 GDP, significantly higher than the Baa median of around 48%. Meanwhile, interest payments are about 26% of general government revenue, the highest among Baa-rated peers and more than three times the Baa median of 8%,” it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moodys-upgrades-india-rating-to-stable/article36850395.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Chhattisgarh CM stopped at airport||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel staged a protest at the Lucknow airport after the authorities refused to allow him into the city. “I told them [the airport staff] that I am not headed for Lakhimpur Kheri. But they refused.” He was not allowed to leave the terminal building.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-cm-stopped-at-airport/article36850398.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,||End flex board culture: HC||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to come up with a comprehensive set of guidelines indicating the measures necessary to discourage and completely stop the practice of impeding pedestrian and vehicular movement by erecting flex boards, festoons, buntings, cut-outs and the like on roads and pavements. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said it would be best if the government suggest some disincentive or penalty against those who put up such temporary construction or gates or welcome arches on public places to invite political leaders and thereby pose grave danger to the pedestrians as well as motorists. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by E.R. Mohanraj, an advocate from Villupuram. The petitioner had complained about the electrocution of a 13-year-old boy when he was erecting iron flag poles to welcome Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi to a marriage function in Villupuram on August 20. On the other hand, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram told the court that a contractor had engaged the minor boy for the work. He said, the contractor was arrested and subsequently released on bail. The Collector had also paid an initial compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to the family of the deceased and the criminal investigation was on. The A-G also brought it to the notice of the court that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had issued a diktat in 2019 instructing his party cadre not to erect flex boards for party events. The judges directed the government officials to file a written response to the PIL petition by November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/come-up-with-guidelines-to-stop-flex-board-culture-hc-directs-tn-govt/article36850492.ece
06 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||CM: Focus on technical training in high schools||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that steps will be taken to provide technical education to children in high schools so that they acquire skills to compete in the global level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-focus-on-technical-training-in-high-schools/article36850514.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Bid to bring international designs to Delhi streets||The Dialogue and Develop- ment Commission of Delhi, in partnership with WRI India, organised an international workshop on ‘Transforming Delhi’s Streets’ here on Tuesday. The purpose of the virtual workshop was to understand international best practices in street design and development, the government stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bid-to-bring-international-designs-to-delhi-streets/article36850829.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Court pulls up police for ‘harassing’ riots victim||A Delhi court on Tuesday pulled up the city police for “harassing” a victim of the north-east Delhi riots by repeatedly serving him notice and asking for documents in relation to the investigation in his case. It noted that his grievance “seems to be real and not illusory”. The court also rapped the Delhi police for being “silent about the status of the probe” being carried out in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-pulls-up-police-for-harassing-riots-victim/article36850830.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kanhaiya’s exit was expected, says CPI||At a three-day meeting of the national council of the CPI, party members said former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar’s exit from the organisation was largely expected. Mr. Kumar, who was a member of the CPI’s national executive, recently joined the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanhaiyas-exit-was-expected-says-cpi/article36850434.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. sends ration scheme file to L-G again||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday once again sent the file related to the Doorstep Delivery of Ration project to L-G Anil Baijal. Last week, the Delhi High Court had allowed the city government to conditionally implement the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-sends-ration-scheme-file-to-l-g-again/article36850435.ece
06 October 2021||Patna,||Trouble brews in Bihar grand alliance||The rift in the ‘grand alliance’ in Bihar widened on Wednes- day after the Congress announced the names of candidates for the Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan Assembly bypolls on October 30. Earlier, the RJD had announced the names of its candidates for both the seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trouble-brews-in-bihar-grand-alliance/article36850437.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Four accused arrested in robbery case||The police arrested four persons, including an employee of a petrol bunk who is said to have hatched a conspiracy, on the charge of robbing a manager of the petrol bunk of Rs. 4.2 lakh in cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-accused-arrested-in-robbery-case/article36850889.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool team makes it to strife spot||A five-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress managed to sneak into Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday and meet the families of farmers killed when vehicles in Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s convoy allegedly ran amok. Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, who was part of the delegation, said it was shameful that in the 75th year of India’s Independence, MPs and MLAs, who are meant to uphold the law, were brazenly committing murders and getting away with it. Ms. Sen, along with her Rajya Sabha colleagues Abir Ranjan Biswas and Sushmita Dev and Lok Sabha members Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Protima Mandal, spent 14 hours on the road from Delhi to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday night. At various checkposts en route where they were stopped, they escaped police scrutiny by posing as tourists. They stayed the night at Lakhimpur Kheri, avoiding detection. Early on Tuesday, they managed to visit the homes of two of the victims, 20-year-old Lovpreet Singh and 60-year-old Nachattar Singh. “Justice is all that the families are demanding. Their mouths can’t be shut down by compensation. They want immediate arrest of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish Mishra, whose culpability in the incident has been proven beyond doubt,” Ms. Sen told The Hindu . It was only when the Trinamool delegation was leaving Nachattar Singh’s home that the police discovered them. Ms. Sen said the police tried to obstruct their way as they left the village. It is shameful, she said, that elected representatives of the country are barred without any valid reasons from visiting parts of Uttar Pradesh. “BJP MPs and MLAs are getting away with brazen murders under the Narendra Modi regime. What can be more shameful and shocking than this? And let us not forget that this is happening when the country is celebrating 75th year of Independence,” Ms. Sen said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-team-makes-it-to-strife-spot/article36850310.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health benefit package under Ayushman Bharat revised||The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex body for implementing Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), has revised the Health Benefit Package (HBP) Master under the scheme. In the revised version of Health Benefit Package (HBP 2.2), rates of some packages have been increased by 20% to 400% under the PM-JAY. Rates of around 400 procedures have been revised and one new additional medical management package related to black fungus has also been added, according to a release issued by the Health Ministry on Tuesday. The HBP 2.2 is expected to be rolled out from November this year. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said HBP 2.2 would enable the empanelled hospitals to provide better services to the beneficiaries under Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY. “The revised packages for oncology will enhance cancer care for the beneficiaries in the country. Addition of new packages related to black fungus will be a huge relief. The rationalised HBP will further improve the uptake of schemes in private hospitals leading to reduced out-of-pocket expenditure,” he added. Dr. R. S. Sharma, CEO, NHA, said new packages had been added to cover more disease conditions and regular rates of the packages were being revised to provide better services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-benefit-package-under-ayushman-bharat-revised/article36850321.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||15 High Court judges transferred||In a major shuffle, the Law Ministry on Tuesday notified the transfers of 15 judges across 11 High Courts. The transfer orders, recommended by the Supreme Court Collegium around a fortnight ago, were out on the website of the Department of Justice (DoJ). According to the DoJ list, Justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has been transferred to the Orissa High Court, while Justice Sabina of the Rajasthan HC has been sent to the Himachal Pradesh High Court. Justice Sanjaya Kumar Mishra of the Orissa High Court has been moved to the Uttarakhand HC, and Justice Manindra Mohan Shrivastava of the Chhattisgarh High Court has been shifted to the Rajasthan High Court. Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah of the Patna High Court has been transferred to the Andhra Pradesh High Court, while Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of the Bombay High Court has been sent to the Telangana High Court. Justice A.M. Badar of the Kerala High Court stands transferred to the Patna High Court while Calcutta High Court’s Justice Arindam Sinha has been sent to the Orissa High Court. The Gujarat High Court’s Justice Paresh R. Upadhyay stands transferred to the Madras High Court, while Justice M.S.S Ramachandra Rao of the Telangana High Court has been sent to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Justices Yashwant Varma, Vivek Agarwal, Chandra Dhari Singh and Ravi Nath Tilhari of the Allahabad High Court have been moved to the Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh High Courts respectively. Justice Anoop Chitkara of Himachal Pradesh High Court has been sent to the Punjab and Haryana HC. Considered to be one of the biggest reshuffles in recent times, the Law Ministry put out a list of the transfers and postings on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-high-court-judges-transferred/article36850374.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Online system for aviation safety||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has introduced a Web-based system for voluntary reporting of incidents that pose a potential threat to flight safety. It said that to encourage voluntary safety reporting, besides e-mail and postal mode, Web-based reporting had been introduced on the eGCA platform, which made the reporting mechanism more accessible to persons engaged in aviation related activities. However, the Voluntary Safety Reporting System was not a substitute for Mandatory Safety Reporting System that would continue to function. As part of the state safety programme, the DGCA had voluntary safety reporting system to facilitate collection of information on actual or potential safety deficiencies that may not be captured by the mandatory safety reporting system. Non-punitive The DGCA said that the reporting system would be non-punitive and would protect the source of the information. Anyone witnessing or involved or having knowledge of an occurrence, hazard or situation which he or she believes possesses potential threat to flight safety could report the same through the system on eGCA or email or postal mode the contact details made available on the official website of the DGCA, it said in a circular. The information collected through voluntary safety reporting system would be handled in a manner so as to prevent its use for purposes other than safety and shall appropriately be safeguarded. The confidentiality about the identity of the person making the report would be maintained. While anonymous reports would be accepted, the person may disclose his/her identity to enable contact if any part of the report needed clarification, the DGCA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-system-for-aviation-safety/article36850299.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Viral video was shot by eyewitnesses: SKM||Cellphone video footage has emerged from Lakhimpur Kheri showing SUVs ploughing into a group of farmers from behind and driving on, as well as occupants of the car exiting the vehicle even as a person seems to be caught under the wheels. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha says the 29-second video purporting to show the actual moment of impact was shot by eyewitnesses, adding that the footage had been edited to slow it down for clarity. “The footage was obtained by one of the social media supporters of the farmers’ movement. It was slowed down to show what exactly happened, that too from behind unaware, peacefully walking protesters. No other editing was done,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, an SKM leader representing the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, who has been handling the platform’s media updates. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had urged farmers and eyewitnesses to come forward with any evidence or videos showing the truth of what had happened. The 29-second video which became viral on social media later on Monday night shows a jeep hitting a group of men walking on a rural road, some holding flags. An elderly man in a white kurta and green turban is thrown onto the windshield of the vehicle by the force of the impact while others fall by the road. Soon after, a second SUV drives past as well. Another shorter clip Another shorter 10-second video posted on Twitter on Tuesday morning appears to show a man in a blue kurta jump out of the same jeep and run away, even as a man seems to be caught under the wheels of the vehicle. The SKM claimed that such videos proved the truth of their allegations. “Many eyewitness accounts are now being captured on videos, which also reveal that the Minister’s son Ashish Mishra was indeed driving the vehicle, from which he later got down and ran away, with cover and support provided by the police, and while firing on protesters,” said an SKM statement. Responding to journalists’ queries on the videos, Mr. Ajay Mishra said he had evidence to prove that neither he nor his son was present at the spot. He said based on the videos, it was visible that the driver was killed after being pulled out of the car, adding that if it had been his son, he would have been dead. The Uttar Pradesh police did not respond to queries on the authenticity or investigation of these videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/viral-video-was-shot-by-eyewitnesses-skm/article36850306.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Urban planning a victim of politics’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the previous Uttar Pradesh Government (the Samajwadi Party dispensation) did not want to construct houses for the poor, and even obstructed the Centre’s plans under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). He was speaking on day one of the three-day conference organised by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on “New urban India” in Lucknow. He said the beneficiaries of the three crore PMAY houses built so far had become “lakhpatis”. “Urban planning had become a victim of politics” earlier, he stated. The U.P. Government before 2017 did not even construct 18 of the 18,000 houses sanctioned under PMAY. After Yogi Adityanath came to power in 2017, nine lakh houses had been built under PMAY-Urban and 14 lakh more were in various stages of construction, he claimed. Earlier during the day, Mr. Modi visited the exhibition on various urban missions in the country and interacted with beneficiaries of PMAY-Urban from Uttar Pradesh. He virtually inaugurated the work of 75 urban development projects in the State under the Smart Cities Mission and AMRUT and a fleet of 75 electric buses. He also announced the setting up of a Atal Bihari Vajpayee Chair at the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University in Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/urban-planning-a-victim-of-politics/article36850327.ece
06 October 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Must look at weaknesses and strengths of 13A’||There is an “urgent need” to understand the “weaknesses and strengths” of the 13th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution and “act accordingly”, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Tuesday told Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, while expressing a desire to revive the spirit of the relations of the 1960s and 1970s. Mr. Shringla called on the President on Tuesday morning, before wrapping up his official visit. In addition to underscoring the need to expedite bilateral projects, the Foreign Secretary, in his meeting with President Rajapaksa on the final day of his visit, reiterated India’s position “on complete implementation of the provisions under the 13th Amendment to the Constitution, including devolution of powers and the holding of provincial council elections at the earliest”, the Indian mission said in a statement, referring to the nearly 34-year-old legislation that remains contentious in Sri Lanka. Regional security Both countries agreed on the need for “short-term and long-term steps” to take relations to “a higher level”, the President’s office said adding that President Rajapaksa is expecting India’s support in advancing the 1971 proposal made by then Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike to declare the Indian Ocean a peace zone. According to official sources in Colombo familiar with the Foreign Secretary’s discussions over the last few days, the Indian official had raised concern over maritime security in the region, particularly in the wake of Sri Lankan authorities recently apprehending massive hauls of narcotics that India suspects came from a “regional drug mafia”. “Any threat to Sri Lanka’s peace and security is a threat to the region and Sri Lanka must not become a conduit,” the Indian side is said to have conveyed. The President’s remarks on elevating ties come after considerable strain in relations over Colombo’s unilateral move earlier this year, cancelling a trilateral Port terminal project agreement signed with India and Japan in 2019; and New Delhi’s persisting concern over the “slow pace” of India-backed development projects amid China’s increasing presence in Sri Lanka’s economic and developmental spheres. However, last week, the Adani Group obtained 51% stake in a deal signed with Sri Lanka’s John Keells Holdings and the Sri Lanka Port Authority, to jointly develop the West Container Terminal at the Colombo Port, offered as a “compromise” to India. According to official sources, both sides identified areas of greater collaboration in the energy sector. The development of the Trincomalee Oil Tank Farm at the eastern tip of the island nation was a key point of discussion, sources indicated, with Colombo expressing willingness to iron out differences. The statement from President Rajapaksa’s office said the Minister of Energy has been “entrusted with the task of resolving the situation” regarding the Trincomalee oil tanks in a manner that is “beneficial to both countries”. “The subject Minister is likely to travel to New Delhi soon,” an official source said, requesting anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the ongoing negotiations. India has been linked to the project for over three decades now, but the proposal for India and Sri Lanka to jointly refurbish and commission the World War II-era oil storage facility has only hit roadblocks, with worker unions and nationalist groups periodically opposing any Indian involvement. New Delhi will likely host at least four top Ministers from Colombo soon, officials told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/must-look-at-weaknesses-and-strengths-of-13a/article36850292.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘42 fighter squadrons not possible in next 10-15 years’||It is not possible for the Indian Air Force (IAF) to reach the sanctioned strength of 42 fighter squadrons in the next 10-15 years, and the force will remain at 35 squadrons, given the current phase-outs and inductions, according to Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) V.R. Chaudhari. Addressing the annual press conference on Tuesday ahead of Air Force Day on October 8, he said that deliveries of the S-400 Surface to Air Defence (SAM) systems from Russia were on track, but cautioned that the SAM systems could not be a replacement for fighter jets. “The four squadrons of Light Combat Aircraft (LCA)-Mk1A, six squadrons of the Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA) and six Medium Role Fighter Aircraft (MRFA), and then factoring in the phase-out, it will remain at 35 squadrons in the next decade,” he stated. S-400 regiment To questions, he remarked that the first S-400 regiment should be inducted within this year. On force modernisation, he disclosed that the last four MiG-21 squadrons would be phased out in the next four years. “We are fully committed to the AMCA programme, for which an ambitious timeline has been set by DRDO themselves. The AMCA will roll-out well before the end of this decade. We hope to start inducting the AMCA by the early years of next decade,” he stressed. On the military cooperation between China and Pakistan, he remarked that their only concern was “dissemination of information of western tactics and technology which passes hands from Pakistan to China… We are prepared to handle a two-front contingency”. On formation of integrated theatre commands, he reiterated, “Theatreisation needs to be done keeping in mind future warfare. Should be synchronised. Doctrines and strength of each service need to be kept in mind.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/42-fighter-squadrons-not-possible-in-next-10-15-years/article36850325.ece
06 October 2021||Patna,||Trouble brews in Bihar grand alliance ahead of byelections||The rift in the mahagathbandhan (‘grand alliance’) in Bihar widened on Wednesday after the Congress officially announced the names of candidates for the Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan Assembly byelection on October 30. Earlier, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had announced the names of its candidates for both the seats. The Congress, which had staked claim to the Kusheshwarsthan (reserved) seat, expressed reservation over the RJD’s “unilateral announcement”. However, RJD leaders said the decision was taken after consulting the top Congress leadership. The Congress on Wednesday announced the names of Rajesh Kumar Mishra from Tarapur (Munger) and Atirek Kumar from Kusheshwarsthan (Darbhanga). Party general secretary Mukul Wasnik issued a press release to say the names of the candidates had been approved by party president Sonia Gandhi. Earlier, the RJD had announced names of party leaders Arun Kumar Shah and Ganesh Bharti from both the seats. The Congress had earlier announced that it would contest one seat, Kusheshwarsthan. “Our natural claim was on the Kusheshwarsthan seat as our party’s senior State leader Ashok Kumar had lost there in the last Assembly poll by a very thin margin,” said senior State Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra. Congress leaders Asit Nath Tiwari and Akhilesh Singh too expressed their reservation over the RJD’s announcement of its candidates. Janata Dal(U) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders too had mocked the mahagathbandhan as a “divided house”. “It shows the mahagathbandhan is in disarray when it comes to their self-interest,” JD(U) leader Niraj Kumar Singh said. BJP leader and party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “It shows there is no mahagathbandhan in the State. When JD(U) had announced names of candidates, all leaders of the National Democratic Alliance were present on the dais.” When former Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar recently joined the Congress party, political circles in the State were abuzz that his entry had created a rift between the two ‘grand alliance’ partners. Mr. Kanhaiya Kumar lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll from Begusarai to the BJP’s Giriraj Singh. State Congress leaders said that with his entry, the Congress would be “strengthened” in Bihar. However, RJD leaders did not comment on Mr. Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry into the Congress party. JD(U) candidate from Tarapur, Rajiv Kumar Singh, filed his nomination papers for the bypolls, on Wednesday. Scrutiny of papers will be carried out on October 11 and the results will be announced on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trouble-brews-in-bihar-grand-alliance/article36850286.ece
06 October 2021||LAKHIMPUR KHERI,||My son was run over, and not lynched, says reporter’s father||On Monday evening, some 20 km from Tikonia where hundreds of farmers demanded justice for the victims of Sunday’s incident, Ram Dulare Kashyap was returning home to Nighasan — with an axe on his shoulder and a bunch of kush grass — after performing the last rites of his son, Raman Kashyap. Raman, a journalist, was among the eight persons who was killed after vehicles in Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s convoy ploughed into a crowd of protesting farmers. Apart from Raman, the driver of a car in the convoy of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, identified as Hari Om Mishra, and two BJP workers — Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder — were also killed. Raman, who had been working with a local television channel, according to his family, had left home at noon on Sunday to cover the protests planned by the farmers. Mr. Kashyap, a former teacher, says his son was killed after being run over by the SUVs in the Minister’s convoy that ploughed through the crowd of protesters, and was not lynched by the farmers. “When the three-four cars came…he may have been shooting some photos…the cars ran over people. My son died in that,” said Mr. Kashyap. He does not blame the farmers. “I would have figured out that the farmers had murdered him had I seen lathi marks on his body. The farmers did not run the car over anyone. Whoever drove it must be from the BJP or someone close to the MP’s son,” Mr. Kashyap told The Hindu . He said he saw marks on his son’s body indicating that he was run over by the car. His son also had an injury on his head, he said. “There were marks of being dragged and of friction. No other marks… Gadi se hi mera beta mara hain. Ab chahe kiski gadi ho (my son was killed by a vehicle, no matter whose vehicle it was),” he said. Raman’s autopsy report is yet to be released. The family has submitted a complaint to the police saying Raman was run over by the cars but did not identify anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/my-son-was-run-over-and-not-lynched-says-reporters-father/article36850303.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adani got assets at 3 airports for a song, alleges AAI union||The Airports Authority of India’s aeronautical and non-aeronautical assets at the Mangaluru, Lucknow and Ahmedabad airports were transferred to the Adani group at a fraction of earlier estimates, the Airports Authority Employees’ Union has alleged. In an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 2, it alleged that assets valued at Rs. 1,300 crore at the time the Civil Aviation Ministry had sought approval from the government’s Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPPAC), were transferred to Adani Enterprises Ltd. for a mere Rs. 500 crore last year. According to contracts signed between Adani Enterprises and the AAI for airports in Mangaluru, Lucknow, Ahmedabad in February 2020, the latter had to pay Rs. 74.5 crore, Rs. 147 crore and Rs. 277 crore respectively. According to the Record of Discussion of 85th meeting of PPPAC held on December 11, 2018, these properties were pegged at Rs. 363 crore, Rs. 583 crore and Rs. 384 crore, respectively. Responding to emailed queries, the Adani Group said it met the terms laid down in the bid document for privatisation of six airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adani-got-assets-at-3-airports-for-a-song-alleges-aai-union/article36850337.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Baghel stages protest at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel staged a protest at the Lucknow airport after the authorities refused to allow him into the city. Addressing a press conference, sitting cross-legged on the airport terminal floor, Mr. Baghel said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s anti-farmer sentiment stood exposed as, in a 36-minute address at a function in Lucknow, Mr. Modi had not even uttered a word on the happenings in Lakhimpur Kheri. Mr. Bhagel stated that as he and his staff landed in Lucknow in the afternoon by a commercial plane, they were asked to deplane before others. They were put on an airport bus and taken to the terminal, where he was told that he could not leave the terminal building. “I told them that I am not headed to Lakhimpur Kheri, where things are still tense, and I wanted to go to Sitapur, where my leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been detained, and I want to meet Congress leaders in Lucknow. But they blankly refused,” he said. Following an argument with security officers, Mr. Baghel sat on the floor in protest. He was told that Section 144 was in place in Lucknow too. “I asked them: if Section 144 is in place, how was the Prime Minister allowed to hold a function here? The police officers had no reply to this question,” he noted. Mr. Modi was inaugurating an urban planning conference. “The BJP has been a supporter of the British, who always believed in suppressing farmers. They are just carrying on with the British legacy. That is the reason why Mr. Modi did not speak on Lakhimpur Kheri, and that is the reason why 48 hours after the incident, he is not sacking Ajay Mishra Teni,” Mr. Bhagel remarked. It was unfortunate that on the one hand, India was marking the 75th year of Independence with an “extravagant” Amrit Mahotsav, while on the other, BJP leaders were “mowing down farmers and getting away with it”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-stages-protest-at-lucknow-airport/article36850314.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two-finger test not done, says IAF chief||The two-finger test was not done in the case involving a lady officer in Coimbatore and all disciplinary action recommended by the inquiry would be taken, said Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday. “Let me assure you that Air Force law is very strict on any such incidents. We have no latitude for any misconduct or moral turpitude cases. The two-finger test... that has been misreported. The actual fact is this has not been done. All disciplinary action that comes from this inquiry will be taken,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-finger-test-not-done-says-iaf-chief/article36850571.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||No more adjournments on Zakia Jafri’s petition||The Supreme Court said it will not entertain any further adjournments in hearing a petition filed by Zakia Jafri, widow of slain Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, challenging the SIT’s clean chit to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi in the 2002 Godhra riots. The Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar posted the case to October 26 after senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the listing was quite unexpected and he was yet to complete the filing of records. Mr. Sibal said he was “personally embarrassed” to seek an adjournment. “There are 23,000 pages of records,” the senior lawyer said. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the case has been adjourned for nearly a year and a half for the same reason. The court said it had been pending since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-more-adjournments-on-zakia-jafris-petition/article36850289.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Kin of Kheri farmer want second autopsy||“Hundreds of farmers present there saw what happened. At least they should show the bullet injury in the post mortem,” said Mr. Miskeen. “They didn’t mention the bullet injury in the report. They said he had injuries in his leg and abdomen. Abdomen injury we can understand, but how can anyone die of leg injury,” asked Mr. Miskeen. Persons claiming to be eyewitnesses in Tikonia said they saw Ashish Mishra sitting in the SUV that moved down the farmers on Sunday. They alleged that after his car lost balance, he abandoned the vehicle and fled on foot. While doing so, he fired at Gurvinder who tried to catch him. Ashish Mishra has, however, claimed that all allegations against him were false and that he was not at the site of the incident but in his ancestral village Banveerpur, a couple of kms away at a wrestling event organized by his father Ajay Mishra in memory of his grandfather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kin-of-kheri-farmer-want-second-autopsy/article36850293.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Priyanka held: Oppn. favours joint action||“I have myself seen a portion of a paper on social media in which they have named 11 people — 8 of whom were not even present at the time I was arrested... I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning,” the Congress leader said in a statement. “Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, U.P.,”she added. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar compared the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy while Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said there was a discussion on sending an Opposition delegation to Lakhimpur. After his meeting with Mr. Gandhi, the Sena MP also told reporters that the former Congress chief stressed on “the need for Opposition parties come together to save democracy”. There are reports that Mr Gandhi could be visiting the violence hit area on Wednesday but there was no official word on it. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi too shared Mr Pawar’s sentiments and compared the incident to .Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Earlier in the day, Ms. Vadra shared a 25-second video of Sunday’s incident at Lakhimpuri Kheri and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he had not sacked Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ nor arrested his son, who has been named as an accused “You have arrested Opposition leaders like me without any order or warrant. I want to know why this man is still free,” she asked. Soon after this, the U.P. government registered cases against her, Mr. Hooda and 9 others under section 151 and other relevant sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) dealing with preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-held-oppn-favours-joint-action/article36850294.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Denmark Prime Minister arriving on Saturday||Climate change solutions will be at the top of the agenda for Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, who will visit India this week — the first head of state or government to arrive in Delhi since February 2020. Ms. Frederiksen, who last held a summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September 2020 where they had announced the first “Green Strategic partnership”, is expected to discuss investments in Indian renewable technology, supply of green technology and outline their climate positions on reducing carbon emissions ahead of the upcoming COP26 UN summit on Climate Change in Glasgow this November. Bilateral ties “The visit will give both sides an opportunity to discuss the entire gamut of bilateral relations and review the progress in the implementation of the ‘Green Strategic Partnership’,” said the Ministry of External Affairs statement on Tuesday. Of particular interest will be the announcement of Danish financing and technological support for various projects including an “Energy island” off the coast of Tamil Nadu in the Gulf of Mannar where a proposal to produce 4-10 GW of wind power energy is being discussed. Last month, Danish Minister for Climate, Energy and Utilities Dan Jørgensen met Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to discuss investments of between $5-10 billion dollars in the project. “PM Frederiksen’s visit will connect the dots between the way India is developing and how Denmark can help India to do so in a more sustainable way, according to its needs,” Danish Ambassador to India Freddy Svane told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denmark-prime-minister-arriving-on-saturday/article36850297.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Moody’s upgrades India rating to ‘stable’||On Tuesday, it said that downside risks to growth from subsequent coronavirus infection waves were mitigated by rising vaccination rates and more selective use of restrictions on economic activity. Moreover, higher capital cushions and greater liquidity suggests banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much less risk to the sovereign than Moody’s previously anticipated. “While risks stemming from a high debt burden and weak debt affordability remain, Moody’s expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile,” it said. Over the medium term, Moody’s expects real GDP growth to average around 6%, reflecting a rebound in activity to levels at potential as conditions normalize. “The growth projections take into account structural challenges, including weak infrastructure, rigidities in labour, land and product markets that continue to constrain private investment and contribute to post-pandemic economic scarring,” it explained. The normalisation of growth levels will enable a ‘gradual fiscal consolidation and stabilisation of the government’s debt burden, albeit at high and above pre-pandemic levels’, the rating agency said. Debt levels However, Moody’s said the higher debt burden and weaker debt affordability compared to pre-pandemic times is expected to persist, which is a key factor in its rationale for retaining the Baa3 rating as it would contribute to ‘lower fiscal strength’. This would offset India’s recent strong points such as narrower current account deficits and historically high foreign exchange reserves that have reduced the country’s vulnerabilities to external shocks. “India’s main credit challenges, its low per capita income and its weak fiscal position, which has been exacerbated by the coronavirus shock. India’s general government debt burden increased sharply from 74% of GDP in 2019 to an estimated 89% of 2020 GDP, significantly higher than the Baa median of around 48%. Meanwhile, interest payments are about 26% of general government revenue, the highest among Baa-rated peers and more than three times the Baa median of 8%,” it pointed out. “Looking ahead, Moody’s expects the debt burden to stabilise at around 91% over the medium term, as strong nominal GDP growth is balanced by a gradually shrinking, but still sizeable, primary deficit,” the agency said in a statement. The upgrade in outlook to ‘stable’, Moody’s said, was driven by the ‘lower susceptibility’ to event risk from ‘a negative feedback loop between the financial sector and the real economy’. “Bank provisioning has allowed for the gradual write-off of legacy problem assets over the past few years. ” it averred. For an upgrade in the country’s rating, Moody’s said India’s economic growth potential would have to increase ‘materially beyond its expectations, supported by effective implementation of government economic and financial sector reforms that resulted in a significant and sustained pickup in private sector investment’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moodys-upgrades-india-rating-to-stable/article36850300.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth hit by COVID’s mental toll: Unicef||Mental health issues in developing countries such as India have been on the rise, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday while releasing the Unicef ’s global flagship publication: “The State of the World’s Children 2021; On My Mind: promoting, protecting and caring for children’s mental health”. Seeking support The report was launched globally, and in the survey conducted across 21 countries, only 41% of young people in India said it is good to seek support for mental health problems, compared to an average of 83% across all the countries surveyed. “Children and young people in India could feel the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on their mental health and well-being for many years to come,” the Unicef noted in its report. Speaking on the occasion, the Union Health Minister said COVID-19 was a test of mental stress for the entire society. ‘Open consultations’ “It is very vital to address mental health as an important aspect for creating a healthy society and teachers are very important stakeholders for addressing mental health issues along with parents and family,” the Minister said. “Family and teachers should have open consultation with children from a position of mutual trust and respect,” he added. Presenting the key findings of the report, Dr. Yasmin Ali Haque, Unicef India Representative, said the survey found that around 14% of those aged 15 to 24 in India, or 1 in 7 reported often feeling depressed or having little interest in doing things. “Children have not only been living an emotional tragedy, many are also at a higher risk of neglect and abuse,” Ms. Ali Haque added. The report notes that there is wide concern about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental health. “Research indicates some increases in stress and anxiety among children and adolescents,” states the report. “The mental health of caregivers, especially young mothers, is also a concern,” the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-hit-by-covids-mental-toll-unicef/article36850323.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Scolding not tantamount to abetment of suicide’||Disciplinary measures adopted by a teacher or other authorities of a school, reprimanding a student for his indiscipline, will not tantamount to provoking a student to commit suicide, the Supreme Court held in a judgment on Tuesday. “It is a solemn duty of a teacher to instill discipline in the students. It is not uncommon that teachers reprimand a student for not being attentive or not being up to the mark in studies or for bunking classes or not attending the school,” a Bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari observed. A mere reprimand or disciplinary action will not translate to the crime of abetment of suicide unless “there are repeated specific allegations of harassment and insult deliberately without any justifiable cause or reason”.The court said it was not only the moral obligation of a teacher but also his “legally assigned duty” under Section 24 (e) of the RTE Act, 2009 to hold regular meetings with the parents. The case concerned the death of a 14-year-old by suicide in Rajasthan in 2018. The appellant, a teacher, was accused of ‘insulting’ the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scolding-not-tantamount-to-abetment-of-suicide/article36850377.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medical education has become a business: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the tragedy of medical education in the country was that it had become a business. The observation from a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud came while the court pulled up the government and the National Board of Examinations (NBE) for making last-minute changes to the pattern of the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test- Super Specialty (NEET-SS) 2021. The court wondered whether the eleventh hour changes were a move to facilitate the filling of the seats in private medical colleges. Justice Chandrachud remarked, “The impression we get is medical education has become a business, and medical regulation has also become a business”. The court noted that questions under the revised pattern were wholly from General Medicine, which was a feeder category. The earlier pattern had 60% of the questions coming from the student’s chosen field of speciality and the rest from the feeder category. The court reasoned that this sudden change was meant to favour General Medicine, in which the largest pool of students were found, to fill the seats. The court surmised that private institutions benefited from this. It remarked that since seats in government colleges never lay vacant, it must be for their private counterparts that the pattern was altered. “The interest of students is far higher than that of the institutions,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medical-education-has-become-a-business-sc/article36850333.ece
06 October 2021||Kolkata,||Governor to administer Mamata’s oath||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday announced that he would administer the oath to Mamata Banerjee as a member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly on October 7 in the premises of the State Assembly. “Invoking powers vested in me under Article 188 of the Constitution, I direct the oath/ affirmation to the elected members to the WBLA viz, Mamata Banerjee (159 - Bhabanipur), Jakir Hossain (58 - Jangipur) and Amirul Islam (56 – Samserganj) shall be administered by the undersigned at the premises of the West Bengal Assembly on 7 October, 2021 at 2 p.m.,” read an order from the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-to-administer-mamatas-oath/article36850307.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||LJP factions get names, symbols||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday allotted the names Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party to the LJP factions led by Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, respectively. In letters to the two leaders, the ECI also said it had allotted the symbols — helicopter for Mr. Paswan’s faction and sewing machine for Mr. Paras’s — after considering their requests. These would be applicable for the ongoing byelections to two Bihar Assembly seats. On October 2, the ECI passed an interim order on the dispute between the two groups about who represents the LJP. It said while it resolved the matter, both factions would not be allowed to use the name LJP and its symbol of “bungalow”. It had asked both leaders to submit options for names and symbols by Monday. Leadership claim Both sides staked claim to the leadership of the party after the death of LJP founder Ramvilas Paswan last year. Mr. Paras, who is Ramvilas Paswan’s brother, on June 14, claimed that he had been elected the party’s leader in Parliament, the ECI order stated. Mr. Chirag Paswan, Ramvilas Paswan’s son, wrote to the ECI in June and July informing it of the suspension of five MPs from the party, including Mr. Paras. Mr. Chirag Paswan wrote to the ECI on September 10, reiterating his claim of being the party president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ljp-groups-get-names-symbols/article36850288.ece
06 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||BJP sweeps Gandhinagar civic polls||The BJP on Tuesday won the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) election, gaining 41 out of 44 seats. It also retained the municipalities of Thara and Okha, while the Bhanwad municipality went to the Congress. In Gandhinagar, the ruling party won spectacularly for the first time ever since the Corporation was created in 2010. New entrant AAP cut into the Opposition votes. The Gandhinagar polls was seen as a litmus test for the BJP over its decision to change the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-sweeps-gandhinagar-civic-polls/article36850290.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kanhaiya’s exit was expected, says CPI||At a three-day meeting of the national council of the Communist Party of India (CPI), party members said former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar’s exit from the organisation was largely expected. Mr. Kumar, who was a member of the CPI’s national executive, recently joined the Congress. Sources said Mr Kumar’s exit was not one of the subjects of the agenda, though many members expressed their views on it. Members pointed out that he was directly promoted to the party’s national executive and fielded as its candidate in the Lok Sabha polls from Begusarai, Bihar. The members blamed Mr. Kumar’s lack of ideological and political commitment for his exit. The next party congress will be held from October 14 to 18, 2022 in Vijayawada. The party has planned week-long protests across the country condemning the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. It demanded the arrest of the Minister and his son concerned. It wanted the government to institute a judicial probe into the violence. It reiterated the demand to withdraw the three Central farm laws that had led to a prolonged agitation by farmers’ groups. A report presented by party general secretary D. Raja at the council meeting said the BJP-RSS combine was aggressively pursuing the Hindutva agenda. The Constitution was systematically subverted by redefining and altering the fundamental tenets of Indian state that constitute the secular and welfare state as defined by the Constitution, it alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanhaiyas-exit-was-expected-says-cpi/article36850295.ece
06 October 2021||Srinagar,||Businessman shot dead||Militants shot dead Makhan Lal Bindroo, the owner of Bindroo Medicate — a popular pharmacy in Srinagar, on Tuesday, police said. In another attack, Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar, was shot dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/businessman-shot-dead/article36850375.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Press Council asks for report||Taking suo motu cognisance of the killing of journalist Raman Kashyap in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the Press Council of India has directed the Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police to submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/press-council-asks-for-report/article36850308.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. offers reward for Samaritans||Good Samaritans who rescue victims of serious road accidents and rush them to a hospital within the golden hour will now be rewarded with Rs. 5,000. They will also be eligible for a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh which will be given to 10 such Samaritans in a year. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways wrote to all States and Union Territories on Monday informing them of the new scheme, which comes into effect from October 15, 2021 and continues till March 31, 2026.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-offers-reward-for-samaritans/article36850330.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anganwadi workers to get insurance||The government’s insurance scheme announced last year for health workers on the COVID-19 frontline will now also cover anganwadi workers and helpers, a senior official of the Ministry of Women and Child Development said on Tuesday. The scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package provides a cover of Rs. 50 lakh in case of death due to COVID-19 or accidental death on account of COVID-19 related duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anganwadi-workers-to-get-insurance/article36850331.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||845 COVID orphans to get PM CARES aid||A total of 845 COVID-19 orphans have so far been identified and approved for receiving benefits under the PM CARES Fund, a senior official said on Tuesday. “A total of 3,915 applications have been submitted on the portal by citizens in the past four months. Of these, 845 have been approved by district Magistrates,” the official said. The PM CARES provides a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh for each child when he or she reaches 18 years of age which will be used to give a monthly financial support for five years thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/845-covid-orphans-to-get-pm-cares-aid/article36850332.ece
06 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP, Cong. stage protests||Referring to the Lakhimpur violence, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday held protests and said the BJP in the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh was “throttling democracy”. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi asked the BJP to respect democratic values rather than perpetrate the rule of coercion to stifle voices. Members of AAP staged protests in several parts of Punjab. In Himachal Pradesh, Congress members staged protests across all the districts against the arrest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-cong-stage-protests/article36850316.ece
06 October 2021||Srinagar,||Mehbooba flays Priyanka’s arrest||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti criticised the Uttar Pradesh government’s action against Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “GOI [Government of India] first gets a docile media to berate Congress and lament lack of a viable opposition but systematically ensures they don’t discharge their duties by illegal arrests,” Ms. Mufti tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehbooba-flays-priyankas-arrest/article36850304.ece
06 October 2021||Pune,||Sharad Pawar likens Lakhimpur Kheri incident to Jallianwala Bagh massacre||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday compared the recent Lakhimpur violence to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919. “The Uttar Pradesh Government has created a situation similar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and it will have to pay its price one day,,” Mr. Pawar warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharad-pawar-likens-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-to-jallianwala-bagh-massacre/article36850312.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) wants Ajay Mishra to quit as MoS Home||Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose cavalcade allegedly mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, must be sacked immediately since there could be no impartial inquiry if he remained in the post, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said on Tuesday. “There is clear video evidence of the convoy, with sirens blaring, driving into farmers and killing them. The Minister has gone so far as to accuse those injured and killed as being “outsiders” and claimed the involvement of “Khalistani” elements to defend himself,” the CPI(M) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-wants-ajay-mishra-to-quit-as-mos-home/article36850315.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Interpol launches online cybersecurity campaign||The Interpol has launched an online campaign to apprise people of major cyberthreats to help them protect their computer systems, networks and personal information from cybercriminals. “Whether it’s in a business or in a personal setting, cybercrime is often just a single click, tap or swipe away,” it said. The three-week campaign, from October 4 to 22, would be run primarily through social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/interpol-launches-online-cybersecurity-campaign/article36850328.ece
06 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Decision on Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin next week: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) said a final decision on grant of Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin will be taken at a meeting next week. Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech, which has been submitting data on a rolling basis to WHO, had submitted additional information at the organisation’s request on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-on-emergency-use-listing-for-covaxin-next-week-who/article36850379.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Amit Shah to visit J&K, his first since Article 370 read down by Parliament in Aug. 2019||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir later this month as part of the Centre’s ongoing outreach programme in the newly created Union Territory. This will be Mr. Shah’s first visit to J&K after Article 370 of the Constitution was read down, and the former State was bifurcated into two Union Territories in August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-to-visit-jk-his-first-since-article-370-read-down-by-parliament-in-aug-2019/article36850336.ece
06 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Tripura BJP lawmaker extols Mamata, slams PM Modi||A BJP MLA in Tripura has hailed West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee as the face of the Opposition while slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “selling off” the country’s assets to private parties. The BJP, troubled by dissension against Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, has not reacted to the views of Ashis Das, MLA from Surma constituency, reserved for the Scheduled Castes. Mr. Das, who is in Kolkata for a programme at the Kalighat temple there, said “time will tell” whether his visit was “religious or political”. This has set tongues wagging in Tripura about the possibility of some BJP leaders joining the Trinamool Congress. Praising Ms. Banerjee for winning the Bhabanipur Assembly by-election “overwhelmingly”, Mr. Das said he was proud that she West Bengal Chief Minister had become the face of the Opposition in India. He said Mr. Modi had similarly stirred the people of India. “But today, the party has become a ‘jumla’, selling off all government property.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-bjp-lawmaker-extols-mamata-slams-pm-modi/article36850338.ece
06 October 2021||Mumbai,||4 remanded in NCB custody till Oct. 11||A court here on Tuesday remanded four persons in the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau till October 11 in the cruise ship drugs case in which Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, is also an accused. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R.M. Nerlikar remanded Abdul Qadir Sheikh, Shreyas Nair, Manish Rajgariya and Avin Sahu in NCB custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-remanded-in-ncb-custody-till-oct-11/article36850572.ece
06 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Bail for Assam model who knocked down 8 road workers raises stink||The Assam police have taken action against two police personnel for letting a former Miss India finalist off the hook after she allegedly knocked down eight road workers while driving in an inebriated state. Two sub-inspectors were “closed” to the police reserve on October 4 after Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma sought a proper probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bail-for-assam-model-who-knocked-down-8-road-workers-raises-stink/article36850334.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water supply in city touches nearly 1,000 mld||The city’s drinking water supply touched nearly 1,000 million litres a day (mld) on Tuesday, a milestone in the city’s water history. This year, the Metrowater has been steadily increasing the quantum of drinking water supply. With abundant resources available, particularly in the city reservoirs, the water agency plans to sustain daily water supply for a minimum of 15 months. On Tuesday, the supply through pipelines in core parts of the city was increased to 780.52 mld compared to 745 mld of supply provided on Sunday. Similarly, supply to added areas has also been stepped up to nearly 137 mld. Officials of the Metrowater noted that the five city reservoirs had a combined storage of nearly 9,372 million cubic feet, which was 80% of their full capacity. Veeranam tank, which augments the city’s supply, also has nearly 60% of its storage capacity. While the reservoirs contribute to a major share of water drawal among the various sources, groundwater in well fields and local sources in added areas too pitch in for the supply. Drawal from the two desalination plants has been reduced, particularly from Minjur, as there is sufficient water available in reservoirs. Mobile water supply has been cut by 25% and trips are being operated proportionate to the demand. As of now, about 4,000 trips are being operated daily, including on payment. A senior official said as normal rainfall was predicted during the northeast monsoon, the reservoirs were expected to touch their full level. If they reached full capacity, the water available would help sustain city supply up to 17 months. However, further increase in supply above 1,000 mld is more of a technical decision, taking into account the capacity and design of the pipeline network both in the city and merged areas. Supply to core areas is likely to be stepped up. Difficulties in suburbs Pointing out difficulties in boosting water supply in added areas on a par with core parts, the official said many of the merged areas did not network or function with old infrastructure. Detailed project reports for water supply networks were being prepared for areas such as Semmencheri and Neelankarai. Once the merged areas had proper infrastructure, the water agency would ensure equitable supply, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-supply-in-city-touches-nearly-1000-mld/article36850792.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Haphazard parking of vehicles clog T. Nagar’s pedestrian plaza||The festival season is here and so are the perennial traffic snarls in T. Nagar, including at its pedestrian plaza. There seems to be no respite for residents as by-lanes have been turned into free parking lots. The extended footpaths, including those in the plaza, have been taken over by two-wheelers. For instance, rows of two-wheelers can be seen on the footpath near the Thankiachalam Road-Theagaraya Road junction when just across the road, the multi-level car park (MLCP), a structure built at a cost of Rs. 40 crore and can accommodate 500 vehicles, remains unused. During non-peak hours, it is normal to see two-wheelers weave their way through the bollards, putting pedestrians at risk. According to Haje, the contractor in-charge of the MLCP, vehicle users are encouraged to use the Smart Parking App to book their slot. “There has been some improvement as during weekdays, as many as 100 cars are parked in the MLCP,” he said. But, only less than a dozen two-wheelers use the facility that has a capacity to accommodate 500 vehicles. Another issue is the haphazard parking of normal and share autorickshaws, that typically use the entry to the MLCP. “We have appointed security staff to clear the space regularly. But the problem is from people who do not use the application, and those who refuse to pay attendants when they park,” Mr. Haje said. Among the regular violators are politicians, advocates and journalists. “I cannot be reaching out to the higher officials every time this happens. We lose as much as 40% of the revenue due to this,” he added. At an impasse Meanwhile, the Greater Chennai Corporation and traders’ bodies have not arrived at an agreement to encourage employees of the shops in T. Nagar to use the MLCP. A transportation expert from a national institute, who was involved in the planning stages of the pedestrian plaza, said for the facility to achieve its full potential, an adequate number of public transport services was necessary. “Facilities such as pedestrian plaza serve the purpose of social connectivity. But only when public transportation is increased will it benefit the people. Until then, when violations happen, it is for the citizens to ensure enforcement happens,” said the expert, who wished to remain unnamed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haphazard-parking-of-vehicles-clog-t-nagars-pedestrian-plaza/article36850801.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Burning of waste poses threat to Suchindram bird sanctuary||Dumping and burning of waste, particularly plastic materials, on the banks of Suchindram lake, in Suchindram-Theroor Bird Sanctuary in Kanniyakumari district, is posing a threat to birds and human beings as well. Plastic bags, empty liquor glass bottles, debris, upholstery materials and windscreen materials have been dumped near the birds’ watch tower on the banks of the lake. The dumped material is burnt and the smell of the smoke emanating from the burnt materials could be felt from a distance. In fact, the banks of the lakes and one side of the road adjoining the paddy fields are littered with trunks of uprooted trees, materials from demolished buildings and household wastes. “We have taken up the issue with the local bodies, especially the Suchindaram town panchayat officials. But there is no proper response and the trend is continuing,” said an official of the forest department. Dr.V. Umaiyorubhagan, former professor of Chemistry, S.T. Hindu College, said burning of plastics would emit highly obnoxious gases which were also carcinogenic. “The flame soot from plastic materials indicates incomplete combustion. There will be suspended sooty particles, which will diffuse into the atmosphere and it will have its own obnoxious effect and cause respiratory diseases,” he said. Information Minister Mano Thangaraj, who hails from the region, said it was a serious issue which required immediate attention. “We discussed the issue of banned plastic materials posing threat to environment even in the last district review meeting. Once dumping of materials were rampant and monitoring by the district administration has brought the incidents down. Yet it is continuing in many places,” he said. Mr Thangaraj said the district administration had launched solid waste management in one ward in every panchayat. “We will implement it strictly to prevent dumping of wastes,” he said. Former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam charged that the government was obsessed with development and revenue collection and had very little understating on issues affecting environment. “Damage caused to environment has a direct bearing on people and the government is not realising its consequences,” he added.  Suspended sooty particles will diffuse into the atmosphere and have an obnoxious effect and cause respiratory diseases V. Umaiyorubhagan Former professor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burning-of-waste-poses-threat-to-suchindram-bird-sanctuary/article36850765.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dravidian majors set for show of strength in polls||With nine districts going to polls on Wednesday and Saturday for rural local bodies, the two principal players — the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its arch rival All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) — are viewing the elections as an opportunity to demonstrate their strength again. The eagerness of the two Dravidian majors can be gauged from the fact that they are contesting in most wards for panchayat unions and district panchayats, leaving limited space to their allies. Functionaries of the parties are hopeful of their organisations improving upon their performances in the Assembly election. ‘Disenchanted’ Explaining why he was confident of his party increasing its pie, Chitlapakkam C. Rajendran, Chengalpattu (west) district secretary of the AIADMK and former Member of Parliament from Chennai South, said people had started feeling “disenchanted” with the DMK government, as it has not implemented many of its promises made during the Assembly election, such as the payment of Rs. 1,000 a month to housewives. Besides, the previous regime, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami, had “carried out a number of welfare measures for the people and development projects for local bodies”. When pointed out that even during the Assembly election, the AIADMK-led alliance, which had the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) then, was significantly behind the DMK-led front in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, Mr. Rajendran replied that the departure of the PMK from the alliance would not have any impact, as “ground reality had changed qualitatively”. However, C.V.M.P. Ezhilarasan, Kancheepuram DMK legislator and the party’s State secretary of the students’ wing, disagreed with him and emphasised that the government had implemented certain measures that were not even promised during the Assembly poll. In addition to the payment of Rs. 4,000 to all rice-drawing cardholders as part of COVID-19 relief, it had provided 13 grocery items to the people. Confident with party “When you explain the government’s difficulties in fulfilling certain assurances to the people, they do appreciate our position and are convinced of our explanation, as they are confident about ours being a party that honours its promises,” said Mr. Ezhilarasan. The DMK legislator said the move to have the elections itself had exhibited the government’s “sincerity” in ensuring that the people get effective provision of basic amenities through elected bodies. On the likely perfomance of the parties, G. Palanithurai, veteran academcian, acknowledged that the image being enjoyed by the government of being “responsive” to issues of the people was among the factors that could go to the advantage of the ruling formation. But in local body polls, “local influence of local leaders” is more important than political arithmetic, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dravidian-majors-set-for-show-of-strength-in-polls/article36850474.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation intensifies rain preparedness efforts||With the city receiving widespread rainfall since Monday night and weather forecasts predicting more rains over the next day or two, the Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified its monitoring and rain preparedness efforts. Senior officials carried out inspections to check the condition of stormwater drains at different places. Officials said a total of 807 pumps would be used in case of water stagnation, and were kept ready across all the 200 wards. However, they said no major complaints of water stagnation were received on Tuesday, partially due to desilting of stormwater drains and other preparatory measures being taken.  Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who carried out inspections on Tuesday, said the Corporation had completed desilting 92% of the 696-km stormwater drain network across the city ahead of northeast monsoon. He said the remaining work was expected to be completed in the next five days. “Apart from desilting stormwater drains, one of the important things we have done is to desilt the silt catch pits as cleaning only the drains may not help,” he said. Of the 30,797 silt catch pits, 28,000 had already been desilted, he added. Earth movers were on standby near Ennore Creek, Napier Bridge and Adyar to keep the river mouths open, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-intensifies-rain-preparedness-efforts/article36850794.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC nod to Puducherry EC to rescind poll notification||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted permission to the Puducherry State Election Commission (SEC) to withdraw a notification issued by it on September 22 for holding local body polls in the Union Territory and issue a fresh notification within five days after correcting all anomalies in reserving the wards. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu were informed by Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan that the government had decided not to reserve any of the seats for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes and to reserve certain wards only for the Scheduled Castes. SEC counsel V. Chandrasekharan told the court that since the government had decided to make changes to the pattern in which the wards were to be reserved, the commission had consequently decided to withdraw the election notification already issued and come up with a fresh notification for the polls. After hearing them, the judges hoped that the new notification would not carry any mistake and would be free from all anomalies. The observation was made while disposing of two writ petitions filed in the court highlighting the anomalies in reserving wards for the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Castes. The cases were filed by Muthialpet MLA J. Pregash Kumar and N. Periannan of Karuvadikuppam. When the judges concurred with the petitioners with regard to the anomalies, the ASG made a recommendation to the Puducherry government to defer the elections until the anomalies were corrected. On Monday, Mr. Sankaranarayanan told the court that his recommendation was pending the Chief Minister’s consideration. Hence, the judges ordered that the receipt of nominations should be kept in abeyance and adjourned the case to Tuesday to know the decision taken by the government. The ASG reverted back stating that the government had decided to rescind the present election notification and issue a fresh notification within five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-nod-to-puducherry-ec-to-rescind-poll-notification/article36850688.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Parking attendants have a tough time enforcing rules’||A parking official at the multi-level parking lot in Pondy Bazaar recalled an unpleasant experience an attendant faced while on the job. The employee had insisted on enforcing the parking zone rule, but a four-wheeler owner refused to accept this. As the attendant did not budge, the vehicle owner assaulted him. The contractor had to lodge a police complaint. “The attendant is only doing his job. He is as much a member of the system, and we are only enforcing the rules under instructions from the Corporation and the police,” the contractor said, adding: “Parking is a service, and it is a citizen’s responsibility to adhere to the norms laid down for the purpose.” The police, however, said their presence on social media platforms was a deterrent to those violating parking rules. According to him the police frequently get information about the violation and they attend to it. However, the department has not been able to provide data on the number of complaints against violations they received either on a weekly or monthly basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parking-attendants-have-a-tough-time-enforcing-rules/article36850803.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity still top-scorers’ favourite||Nearly 69% of the seats allotted in the first round of counselling for engineering admission has been in branches related to Computer Science and Information Technology or Circuitry. Also, nearly 5% of the seats within the segment has gone to new branches of study — Artificial Intelligence and Data Science and Computer Science and Business System. These niche disciplines are offered only by a handful of colleges, but students have shown preference for them over traditional branches. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission 2021 committee had invited 14,842 candidates for the first round of counselling, of whom 11,224 candidates, including 1,037 from the vocational stream and 10,187 from the academic stream, were allotted seats. Seat allotment in the just-concluded first round of counselling has not come as a surprise, though. Nearly 94% of the intake in the four campuses of Anna University has been filled. That some students may have chosen the top-ranking colleges as a backup till seats are allotted in national institutes like the IITs and the NITs and NEET results are released is another matter. All seats in five disciplines — ECE, EEE, CSE, IT and Aeronautical Engineering — on all the four campuses of Anna University have been filled. Only a handful of seats in a few disciplines like Ceramic, Leather and Textile engineering are available for the second round. Of the 11,224 seats that were allotted, as many as 3,058 seats went to CSE aspirants. Core engineering programmes, like Civil and Mechanical have not enthused candidates. Only a handful of self-financing colleges have managed to fill at least 50% of their intake. Among the self-financing colleges, only Sri Sivasubramaniya Nadar College of Engineering (Autonomous) has managed to fill 91% of its intake. A total of 11 institutions, including the departments of Anna University, besides Coimbatore Institute of Technology, PSG Institute of Technology, PSG College of Technology, Government College of Technology, Thiagarajar College of Engineering and Chennai Institute of Technology, have managed to fill 60% of their intake. Of the 440 institutions that are participating in the counselling, as many as 223 have not filled even one seat. “The seat allocation is an indication that top-scorers (cut-off 200 to 185) prefer colleges with an established trend of focusing on improving infrastructure and upgrading facilities,” independent consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi said.  Seat allocation is an indication that top-scorers (cut-off 200 to 185) prefer colleges with an established trend of focusing on improving infrastructure and upgrading facilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-still-top-scorers-favourite/article36850808.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||30,000 vaccine camps to be set up for 5th mega inoculation drive on Sunday||With 64% of the eligible population vaccinated with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines and the second dose coverage touching 22%, the State is all set to hold 30,000 camps as part of the fifth mega vaccination drive this Sunday. At least 25 lakh doses of vaccines will be available, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. “Our aim is to reach 70% first-dose coverage by the end of October... We have 24 lakh doses in hand and another nine lakh are arriving. We will continue the regular camps for four to five working days. We are expecting another lot to be supplied. So we will have a stock of 25 lakh doses by Saturday evening,” he told reporters, shortly after an inspection at the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children. He said the Union Health Minister had communicated in a letter that 20 lakh people were due for the second dose in Tamil Nadu. “In the third mega camp, 10 lakh people received the second dose. Following the letter, we focused on bringing those due for the second dose to the camps. Accordingly, 7.51 lakh people received the second dose during the fourth camp,” the Health Minister said. Dengue screening Inspecting dengue wards at the ICH, the Minister said dengue cases had surfaced following the rains. Steps are being taken to control mosquito breeding and create awareness among the people, he said, adding that fever screening of those arriving from the neighbouring States would continue. Since January, 493 children have been treated for dengue at the ICH. Of them, 449 have been discharged, the Minister said. At present, 41 children, including those from Chennai, Arakkonam and Andhra Pradesh, are undergoing treatment for dengue at the hospital. Their condition is stable, he said. The Minister said 1,27,288 children had so far received the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the State. The target is to vaccinate 9,23,000 children, Mr. Subramanian said. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu, Dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital E. Theranirajan and Director of ICH Ezhilarasi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30000-vaccine-camps-to-be-set-up-for-5th-mega-inoculation-drive-on-sunday/article36850468.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees 1,449 fresh cases, 16 fatalities||Tamil Nadu logged 1,449 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking its tally to 26,71,411. Of the 38 districts, there was no death due to COVID-19 in 27. Fresh infections stayed under the 1,500-mark for the second day in a row. Only three districts — Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu — continued to report over 100 cases. Chennai continued to record the most number of cases, with 179 people testing positive. Coimbatore followed with 151 cases, while Chengalpattu recorded 113. There were 93 cases in Erode and 83 in Thanjavur. Seventy-two people tested positive in Tiruppur, while Tiruvallur and Tiruchi recorded 58 and 51 cases respectively. Salem saw 49 cases. Another 16 people — all in government hospitals — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,682. There were three deaths in Thanjavur, and two each in Chennai, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris. As many as 1,548 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,18,980. The active caseload stood at 16,749. Chennai had the most number of active cases at 1,900, followed by Coimbatore (1,842), Chengalpattu (1,153) and Erode (1,100). As many as 1,46,735 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,77,45,420. A total of 1,77,083 people, including 1,10,971 people in the 18-44 age group and 50,068 people aged 45 to 59, were vaccinated. With this, the coverage in government centres stood at 4,73,45,028. The cumulative coverage in private centres from May 1 touched 25,36,564.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-1449-fresh-cases-16-fatalities/article36850470.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vallalar’s birth anniversary to be benevolence day||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced that the State government would observe the birth anniversary of ‘ Arutpragasa Vallalar’ Ramalinga Adigalar as the Day of Thaniperungarunai (boundless benevolence) every year. In a statement, Mr. Stalin recalled the life of Vallalar and highlighted how the kitchen in his Sathya Gnana Sabhai in Vadalur, Cuddalore district, continued to feed the hungry. Born on October 5, 1823, in Maruthur near Chidambaram, in Cuddalore district, Vallalar  led a life filled with kindness and benevolence, said Mr. Stalin. The Chief Minister also recalled Vallalar’s works, including Manumurai kanda thiruvasagam and Jeeva karunya ozhukkam . Ramalinga Adigalar’s poem Thiruvarutpa is divided into six Thirumuraigal . Surprise check Mr. Stalin paid an unscheduled visit to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell, located on the Secretariat campus .  Mr. Stalin interacted with a few persons who were standing in a queue to submit their representations to the cell, an official release said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and special officer for the ‘Chief Minister in your constituency’ scheme Shilpa Prabhakar Satish were present. Korean Ambassador to India Chang Jae-bok called on the Chief Minister at the Secretariat. Mr. Anbu, Consul General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai Young-seup Kwon and senior officials were present, another release said.  The Chief Minister also highlighted how the kitchen in Vallalar’s Sathya Gnana Sabhai in Vadalur continued to feed the hungry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vallalars-birth-anniversary-to-be-benevolence-day/article36850476.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath must resign over Lakhimpur incident, says VCK||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday demanded the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the wake of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, allegedly mowing down protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In a statement, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the violence was a reflection of the BJP’s high-handedness. “Over the last 10 months, lakhs of farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws in New Delhi. The protests have intensified in almost all parts of Uttar Pradesh. Farmers had organised black flag protests in Lakhimpur district as well and that’s when the car of Ashish Mishra had run over farmers. This is not an unexpected accident. This is a murder due to high-handedness of those in power,” he charged. The VCK chief also condemned the arrest of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi who was prevented from entering Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-must-resign-over-lakhimpur-incident-says-vck/article36850686.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||House of city-based couple arrested in connection with Mundra port heroin case cordoned off||The authorities have cordoned off the house of a couple from Vijayawada, who were recently arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in connection with seizure of 3,000 kg of heroin at Mundra port in Gujarat, sources said. The couple — Machavaram Sudhakar and wife Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaisali — were living at Govardhanagiri Apartments on V.O.C. Street in Kolapakkam and were taken into custody by the DRI officials a fortnight ago. The couple lived there as tenants with their two children. The police said the raid was conducted at the house and the subsequent arrest happened without their knowledge. In its continued crackdown on smuggling of heroin into India, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra port from Kandahar, Afghanistan, via Bandar Abbas, Iran, on September 13. Further scrutiny of the containers led to the seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin from them on September 17 and 19. A total of eight persons, including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek national and three Indian nationals, have been arrested in the case so far. The arrested Indian nationals include the holder of the Import Export Code (IEC), which was used to import the consignment. Sudhakar and Vaisali were among the eight. The consignment was imported by a firm registered in Vaisali’s name called Aashi Trading Company in Vijayawada. The police said Sudhakar had lost his job during the lockdown and started the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-of-city-based-couple-arrested-in-connection-with-mundra-port-heroin-case-cordoned-off/article36850795.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils auditorium, park and playground||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin unveiled an auditorium, a playground and a park set up at a cost of Rs. 97.49 lakh in his Kolathur Assembly constituency on Tuesday. During his visit to the constituency, the Chief Minister also reviewed the arrangements being made in Everwin School buildings where classes would be held temporarily for the new government arts college to be set up by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The auditorium has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 15.31 lakh in Chennai Middle School on Rangasayee Street in Sembium, an official release said. He also interacted within a few students and distributed welfare assistance. The playground was set up at a cost of Rs. 26.18 lakh and includes a badminton court and children's play area. Later in the day, Mr. Stalin visited the Kolathur MLA office where he distributed educational materials for school and college students, financial assistance to people for medical and wedding purposes. He also distributed three-wheelers, carts and hearing aid devices to beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-auditorium-park-and-playground/article36850805.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banyan co-founder gets global recognition||Vandana Gopikumar, co-founder of The Banyan, the non-governmental organisation working with people with mental illness, was recognised as one of the Heroines of Health for the year 2021 by Women in Global Health (WGH), a US-based global network promoting gender equality in health leadership. In a recorded speech delivered at an online event to honour the awardees, Ms. Gopikumar thanked WGH for creating a platform where women leadership can be displayed and discourses around how leadership needed to evolve could be constructed. She highlighted the need for leadership that was empathetic, courageous, that used both the rational and emotional mind, transparent and showed integrity and intellectual humility to address the inequities and promote social justice. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General, World Health Organisation, who also delivered a recorded speech, said that recognition of healthcare workers cannot happen without recognising women. He said that though seven out of ten healthcare workers were women, they accounted for a smaller fraction in leadership roles. He said that WHO was committed to promoting gender transformative policies to address inequities and eliminate gender-based discrimination. Roopa Dhatt, executive director, WGH, said that sidelining of women in decision-making, made the health systems weaker. She said that COVID-19 pandemic had shown that global health security depended on women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banyan-co-founder-gets-global-recognition/article36850809.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Solar-powered fences to protect fields from elephants||Elephants are intelligent enough to overcome the barrier of conventional fences put up for the protection of farms. To overcome this problem, the Agricultural Engineering Department is planning to install hanging solar-powered fences. Though the concept is not new to the State, it will be carried out with a 40% back-ended subsidy to be provided to farmers willing to have such fences. The barrier, to be hung from a height of about 12 ft, is made up of hot-dip galvanised aluminium conductor steel reinforced wires, which are considered rust-free. This is said to be useful in protecting the fields against wild boar and bison attacks. The cost varies depending upon the number of lines of the wire. For instance, wires with five lines are estimated to cost about Rs. 2.91 lakh, of which the government’s subsidy will cover around Rs. 1.16 lakh. If the number of lines is 10, the cost goes up to approximately Rs. 3.37 lakh, of which the subsidy component will be nearly Rs. 1.35 lakh. Apart from this type of fence, the Department is also funding the installation of normal fences. A total of 510 farmers will be covered this year. As of now, no break-up has been worked out for the two types of fences, an official says. Ten companies have been shortlisted for implementing the scheme. The government has set apart Rs. 5.68 crore for the scheme. Solar pump sets To further promote the use of solar pump sets, the authorities are planning to get such pump sets installed through farmers by giving them a 70% subsidy. The State and Central governments will provide 40% and 30% subsidy, respectively, while the remaining 30% has to be borne by agriculturists. Subject to the capacity and the type of electric current (Alternating Current or Direct Current), the cost of submersible pumps varies from around Rs. 2.38 lakh to Rs. 4.40 lakh. The maximum capacity of the pump sets is 10 horsepower. As the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has not yet given its approval for fresh rates and companies in view of litigation, the Agricultural Engineering Department has obtained the Union Ministry’s nod for getting 1,250 solar pump sets installed initially with the rates and firms chosen for 2019-20. Eight firms have expressed their willingness to carry out the initiative. The overall number of solar pump sets to be covered is 5,000, and the State government has earmarked about Rs. 115 crore for the purpose.  The Agricultural Engineering Department is also funding the installation of normal fences. A total of 510 farmers will be covered this year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-powered-fences-to-protect-fields-from-elephants/article36850472.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SSI found dead in Melakottaiyur||A special sub-inspector (SSI) of police was found dead with a bullet injury at his residence in Melakottaiyur on the outskirts of Chennai on Tuesday morning. The SSI, Gowthaman, 59, a native of Cheyyur, stayed with his family at the Tamil Nadu Police Quarters. A preliminary investigation suggested that he could have taken his own life with his service weapon. The Thalambur police have registered a case of unnatural death.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-found-dead-in-melakottaiyur/article36850798.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ICH performs liver transplants||The Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children has been performing living-donor liver transplants over the last four months. “The hospital has entered into an agreement with Global Hospital to perform liver transplants in children. In the last four months, four children have undergone liver transplants at ICH,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters after an inspection of dengue wards at ICH on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institute-of-child-health-performs-liver-transplants/article36850682.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin launches scheme for barbers in temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched a scheme for the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to provide a monthly incentive of Rs. 5,000 to barbers in temples. Under the scheme, 1,744 barbers will be given identity cards and paid a monthly incentive of Rs. 5,000 from the respective temples. The State government will incur an expenditure of Rs. 10.47 crore a year for the same. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian; HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu; MLA I. Paranthamen; Secretary of the Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department B. Chandra Mohan; HR&CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran, and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-launches-scheme-for-barbers-in-temples/article36850478.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State BJP chief takes a dig at HR & CE Minister||BJP State president K. Annamalai on Tuesday questioned why the State government had a department for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and a Minister for it if the government did not have the expertise to ensure the “safe functioning of temples” during COVID-19. Announcing a list of 12 temples across the State where the BJP would hold protests on October 7 to condemn the Tamil Nadu government for not reopening temples between Fridays and Sundays, Mr. Annamalai said if the Minister for HR & CE did not know how to run the temples, he could take the advice of the Minister responsible for TASMAC, “who was successfully running the show”. “It is the Chief Minister’s [M.K. Stalin] prerogative that he goes to places of worship of other religions and does not visit temples but it is deplorable that he is denying Tamils the right to worship in temples. Worshipping Gods is a part of Tamils lives. Let people decide whether preventing them from visiting temples is justified or it is a conspiracy,” he said. He questioned the Tamil Nadu government about the rationale to close temples on weekends when schools, colleges, cinemas, beaches, and public transport were being allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-denying-tamils-the-right-to-worship-in-temples-says-annamalai/article36850499.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC closes suo motu PIL on NH-48||The Madras High Court on Tuesday closed a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by it in 2019 with regard to poor maintenance of the Maduravoyal-Ranipet stretch of National Highway (NH-48) that connects Chennai with Bengaluru. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu closed the case after NHAI claimed that it had repaired the stretch. With the closure of the case, NHAI would now be able to collect 100% toll in two plazas situated on the stretch and not just 50% as it was being collected so far as per interim orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-closes-suo-motu-pil-on-nh-48/article36850780.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two held for abetment of suicide||The police in Arani on Tuesday arrested a father-son duo for allegedly abetting the suicide of a man. The wife of the deceased alleged it was a case of honour killing. Sources said the couple got married in 2019, despite opposition from the man’s family over the woman hailing from a Scheduled Caste community. The man wanted a loan from his family, but they reprimanded him for his marriage and refused the loan. He then ended his life. The family disposed of his body.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s helpline 104 and Sneha's helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-abetment-of-suicide/article36850790.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. forms committee to streamline land exchange||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a five-member Committee to study and suggest ways to streamline the procedures involved in the exchange of lands that would ‘replace’ the relevant Revenue Standing Orders (26A). The decision is expected to benefit large industries and educational institutions that intend to exchange land parcels with the State government to benefit both parties. The Secretary of Revenue and Disaster Management Department would be the chairperson of the committee. Revise procedures Secretaries of Industries and Higher Education Departments, Special Secretary in the Finance Department and the Commissioner of Land Administration are also part of the panel. "The Committee shall submit its recommendations on revising the procedures for exchange of land within one month of its constitution," the Government Order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-forms-committee-to-streamline-land-exchange/article36850806.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||05OCTCHRSR04 , Sriperumpudur||Thulasidas, 45, a salesperson at a Tasmac outlet, was stabbed to death by unidentified persons in Oragadam, near Sriperumbudur, on Monday. His colleague Ramu, 35, was injured in the attack. The police have launched an investigation to nab the suspects and have detained four persons for an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/05octchrsr04-sriperumpudur/article36850796.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kadar tribals shift venue of protest for alternative land in ATR||Families of Kadar tribe, who were demanding alternative land in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), shifted their protest to Theppakulamedu on Tuesday. Organisers said that the protest was shifted to Theppakulamedu in ATR as authorities refused to accord them homestead patta at the location. The protest was started on Gandhi Jayanti. Until Monday evening, the protest was staged near Thaimudi estate. They moved to Theppakulamedu in the evening and continued the protest. According to the organisers, the venue was shifted to Theppakulamedu after Forest and Revenue Departments did not accept the demand of the protesters. Pollachi Sub-Collector Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao held talks with the protesters. One of the organisers of the protest said that the agitation will continue at Theppakulamedu till the district administration take final decision on allotting the land for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kadar-tribals-shift-venue-of-protest-for-alternative-land-in-atr/article36850824.ece
06 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||South West Monsoon to continue for a few more days||The South West Monsoon season that ends usually by September 30 continues in Coimbatore, and other parts of the State. The district would continue to receive rain for a few more days, said S.P. Ramanathan, Head, Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. As of October 5, the district had received 35.5mm rainfall. Though the monsoon extended into October, it had, however, not altered the the district's rainfall realisation for this year as it was in deficit. From June to September, the district had received 117.5mm – June 15mm, July 30.5mm, August 38.5mm and September 33.5mm. The total rainfall predicted was 204 mm. Along with last few days' rain, the district had only received 153mm, which was 51mm short of the prediction, Mr. Ramanathan said. Quoting Indian Meteorological Department prediction, he said the North East Monsoon was likely to start after October 10. It was expected give normal rainfall for 27 of the 38 districts in the State and excess rainfall for the others. Impact on Siruvani The deficiency in rainfall showed in the water level in the Siruvani Reservoir. As of October 5, the water level stood at 43.24 feet as against the full reservoir level of 49.50 feet. The water level had not touched even the 45 feet mark, the level up to which the Kerala Irrigation Department had permitted storage following floods a few years ago. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board said that during the South West Monsoon season, the water level in the reservoir would touch the full reservoir level at least once. But this time it was well below that level. If the North East Monsoon turned out to be good, there were chances of the water level inching up, at least till the permitted 45 feet mark. Every inch of rise in the level would be vital to Coimbatore city managing the water supply during summer next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/south-west-monsoon-to-continue-for-a-few-more-days/article36850812.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Part-time B.E., B.Tech. online counselling from October 8||The online counselling process for admission to part-time B.E., B.Tech. programmes would begin on October 8. A release from the secretary, admissions, said the online admission to first year part-time B.E., B.Tech. courses for the 2021-22 in government and government -aided colleges would be conducted by the Coimbatore Institute of Technology. There would be counselling for textile, civil, mechanical, electrical and electronics, electronics and communication and computer science engineering disciplines. The schedule for counselling was available onwww.ptbe-tnea.com, the release said and added that the process would start on October 8. The next day the prospective students would have to make online fill-in choice. On October 11, the secretary would issue tentative allotment confirmation and on the next day the provisional allotment order could be downloaded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/part-time-be-btech-online-counselling-from-october-8/article36850814.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam closed to visitors||The Forest Department on Tuesday closed Kovai Courtallam to visitors considering the increase in water level. According to Forest Department officials, the inflow of water in the waterfall increased due to heavy rain in its catchment areas in the last few days. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said the waterfall and the ecotourism centre attached to it will remain closed until further order. According to the Forest Department, the opening of the waterfall will be updated soon. Bookings for the ecotourism centres of the Forest Department can be done on the website www.coimbatorewilderness.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-closed-to-visitors/article36850494.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N. people have accepted farm laws, claims Annamalai||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Annamalai claimed here on Tuesday that the people of the State have “accepted” the three farm laws. He alleged that “no commoners” had participated in the recent Bharat Bandh in the State. He told reporters that “true farmers” from the State have not staged any protests against the farm laws. Aspects from the three laws such as contract farming have already been enacted in the State, he said. Terming the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, where four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle that was part of the convoy of a Union Minister of State, as a “sad incident,” Mr. Annamalai stated that the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath had promised that the guilty would be punished. Urging the Opposition parties to not politicise the incident, he asserted that the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the farmers’ protest against the farm laws were separate issues. The opposition for the spent fuel storage facility at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant site is for political reasons, he alleged. He further accused the DMK government of “not striving to improve the quality of lives” of the State’s people, claiming that they have fallen short of fulfilling several of their poll promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-laws-have-been-accepted-by-tn-people/article36850497.ece
06 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress stages protest over Priyanka’s detention||Members of the Coimbatore urban district of the Congress staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate on Tuesday to condemn the detention of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Led by Tamil Nadu Congress Committee Working president Mayura S. Jayakumar, more than 100 party workers wore black shawls and condemned the Uttar Pradesh Government for detaining Ms. Vadra, who was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to protest against the alleged killing of farmers. Mr. Jayakumar said it was undemocratic of the Uttar Pradesh government to detain Ms. Vadra, and sought free movement for the Congress leader to Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-stages-protest-over-priyankas-detention/article36850813.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras launches diploma courses||Indian Institute of Technology – Madras launched two diploma courses in programming and data science on Monday. The diplomas are open to students, working professionals, and job seekers who have completed at least two years of their undergraduate in any discipline. Applicants must appear for diploma entry qualifier examination on December 12 and only those who clear this will be eligible to join the diploma courses, according to a release. The applications are open for the diploma entry qualifier examination and those interested can apply online athttps://diploma.iitm.ac.inby November 15. Carnatic music competition Coimbatore Karnataka Association will organise a carnatic music competition based on the songs of saint-poet Purandara Dasa. According to a press release, the competition will be held under two age categories: those between eight and 25 years and those above 25 years. The first round will be held on November 21 and the competitive round will be held on January 1, 2022. Those interested shall visit www.kacbe.in and the last day for online registration is November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-launches-diploma-courses/article36850821.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 151 COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 151 new cases of COVID-19 and two deaths. The Health Department said that the district had 1,842 active cases on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 72 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally 93,421 cases. The overall toll went up to 957 as one new death was reported by the Health Department. The district had 846 active cases. The Nilgiris district reported 34 cases. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,915. The number of deaths increased from 202 to 204, while 372 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-151-covid-19-cases/article36850825.ece
06 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||100 sovereigns of jewellery stolen from house of businessman||A total of 100 sovereigns of jewellery were allegedly stolen from the house of a businessman at Ganapathy. The police said that the theft took place at the house of Dinakaran at Velavan Nagar extension at Maniyakarampalayam. The police said that Dinakaran and family member had left for Tiruchendur and returned on Tuesday morning. They found they house burgled and 100 sovereigns of jewellery missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-sovereigns-of-jewellery-stolen/article36850826.ece
06 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Date extended||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has extended the last date of admission to 12 under graduate courses from October 7 to October 18. After scrutiny of applications, it would publish rank list on November 2, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/date-extended/article36850816.ece
06 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops closed||Liquor shops within 5km radius of local bodies going to polls would be closed between October 7 and 9 and on the day of counting – October 9, said a release from the district administration. Likewise, managements of clubs, resorts or such establishments with liquor permit should close down bars. The village panchayats that were going to polls for one post or another were 15 in Annur block, one each in Pollachi, Kinathukadavu, Madukkarai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Pollachi North, S.S. Kulam, Sulthanpet, Madhampatty and Anamalai blocks and three in Karamadai block, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-closed/article36850815.ece
06 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||No deaths in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. As many as 28 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the overall tally to 63,556. The district saw 62,343 recoveries and 354 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 14 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,533. Kallakurichi district reported 15 positive cases, taking the district’s tally to 31,036.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-deaths-in-cuddalore/article36850694.ece
06 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||The Dharmapuri police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of murdering his wife. The deceased was identified as Gerina, wife of Khaleel, a trader from Hogenakkal. Khaleel is allegedly addicted to alcohol. On Monday night, the man hacked his wife to death following a quarrel. Hogenekkal police reached the spot and recovered the body. The police registered a case and arrested Khaleel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article36850512.ece
06 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Special camp for transgenders||A special camp to issue smart ration cards to transgenders will be held in all taluk offices in the district on October 9. According to a release, the community members can also submit applications to make corrections or to register grievances related to smart cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-for-transgenders/article36850509.ece
06 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Patrol vehicles should rush accident victims to hospitals’||Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan has instructed police personnel manning Highway Patrol vehicles to rush road accident victims to the nearest government hospitals without waiting for ‘108’ ambulances. At a review meeting on traffic and road safety held here on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivasan gave instructions to this effect to the Special Sub-Inspectors of Police who are in charge of the highway patrol vehicles. All road accidents that had been reported in the district between September 16 to 30 and the ways to precautionary measure to be taken to prevent such accidents were discussed at the meeting in which senior police officials, engineers from National Highways and State Highways and officials from Traffic police wing participated. The SP said that stringent action will be taken against those found using mobile phones while driving/riding, and also riding without helmets and for riding with two persons on the pillion. People who travelled on the footboards of buses must also be booked, he said. The SP said that the members of public who help in saving lives of accident victims would be appreciated at the weekly meetings. Meanwhile, the SP flagged of 48 two-wheeler patrol vehicles in the district, a move to contain crime incidents. The patrol vehicles would move around in the respective jurisdictions round the clock and will rush to the help of people on getting alert about crime cases. They would also take crime preventive steps and work with highway patrol vehicles to help road accident victims. The patrol vehicles will go to the spots where traffic jams are reported and help in decongesting and ensuring free flow of vehicular movement. They would take up patrolling during peak office/school hours to reduce crime through visible policing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patrol-vehicles-should-rush-accident-victims-to-hospitals/article36850483.ece
06 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||U.P. attack a premeditated murder, alleges Congress||The attack on farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh was a premeditated murder, alleged Congress leader and former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil. Participating in a protest here on Tuesday against the farmers’ death after a car ploughed through a group of farmers, Mr. Senthil said that the incident happened after Union Minister Ajay Mishra made an inflammatory speech against the protesting farmers. Charging that it was barbaric attack on the farmers, Mr. Senthil compared this with that of violence that erupted after prolonged peaceful protests by minorities against Citizenship Amendment Act in Delhi. “It was instigated through anti-social elements. In a similar way, the farmers, who have been protesting for around a year in a very peaceful manner, have been attacked,” he said. He alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government had tacit support from the Centre. Stating that the attack was unprecedented, he said what had happened against the farmers in Uttar Pradesh could very well happen against anyone across the country. The agitators also condemned the arrest of party leader Priyanka Gandhi who was kept under preventive arrest when she went to console the family members of the victims. “No well established procedure for preventive arrest was followed in her case,” he complained. Party leaders Manikandan and Satishkumar were present. Ramanathapuram A similar protest by Congress cadre was held in Ramanathapuram. The party’s district secretary, Chelladurai Abdullah, led the protest. He said that the Modi government was functioning in an autocratic manner and was not bothered about any protests from any quarters. The mowing down of farmers reportedly by the Union Minster’s son was brutal, he said. Condemning the house arrest of Ms. Priyanka, Mr. Abdullah said that the Congress cadres will not rest till their leader was allowed to meet the family members of the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-attack-a-premeditated-murder-alleges-congress/article36850485.ece
06 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Huge haul of gutka in Dindigul||In a huge haul of banned tobacco products, a special team of Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul Range) B. Vijayalakshmi seized 980 kg of gutka under Ambathurai police station limits on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the team conducted a vehicle check on Ammaiyanaickanur highway when they intercepted a cargo vehicle. “Our men found the gutka products concealed among a heap of fruits,” said the DIG. The police arrested two persons and sent them to judicial custody. The gutka procured from Karnataka was being taken to Madurai from Hosur, the DIG said. Meanwhile, a team of police seized five tonnes of rice meant for public distribution system that was being smuggled from Madurai to Namakkal. The DIG said that the team led by Vedasandur Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Mahesh arrested the owner of the vehicle. The DSP said that the vehicle transporting ration rice had overturned on the highway. During enquiry, the police found that it was ration rice and handed the accused and the rice to the Food Cell-CID. Virudhunagar Meanwhile, Election Flying Squad on Monday seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 9.50 lakh hoarded in a house under Vachchakarapatti police station limits. Officials searched the house of one G. Sangili Karuppasamy in Kovilpulikuththi and found that 70 bags of banned tobacco products were kept in the house. He was arrested. The team also arrested three others, identified as M. Ramar, 50, of Tenkasi, and M. Mahesh, 28, and Ragesh, 31, of Kovilpatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-haul-of-gutka-in-dindigul/article36850761.ece
06 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali sales pick up at textile markets in Erode||With only a month left for Deepavali, both wholesale and retail sales at the textile markets in the city have picked up and traders are hopeful of good sales this festival season. Weekly textile shops function at Ashokapuram (from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Mondays),behind Central Theatre (10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Mondays) and at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Mondays and 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. on Tuesdays. Other than these, there are shops at the Gani Market that function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. every day. About 3,000 plus shops function in these places selling all kinds of textile items starting from handkerchiefs to ready-made garments and towels. Wholesale orders are received from States such as Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Madhya Pradesh. Traders and the public from other districts and within the district also visit these shops. Following COVID-19 pandemic and drop in production, both wholesale and retail sales had remained affected all these months. Now the traders are hopeful of improved sales in view of the upcoming festival. S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Trader’s Association, told The Hindu that wholesale and retail sales were picking up for the festival season, as traders and the public have started visiting in large numbers. “Though drop in production and rain across the State are affecting our business, they are only temporary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-sales-pick-up-at-textile-markets-in-erode/article36850502.ece
06 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector flags off awareness vehicle on rain water harvesting||An awareness campaign on rainwater harvesting was launched by the district administration here on Tuesday. At a programme organised by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) of Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department on the Collectorate premises, Collector H. Krishnanunni flagged off a vehicle to create awareness among the public on the benefits of rain water harvesting. The vehicle is equipped with an LED screen to play videos on rainwater harvesting. Awareness pamphlets on benefits of rainwater harvesting and methods to construct the structure were distributed to the public. Officials said that during rainy season, rainwater flows waste into drainage channels. Harvesting rain water would help in prevention of soil erosion and ensures availability of water during summer, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-flags-off-awareness-vehicle-on-rain-water-harvesting/article36850503.ece
06 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Nambiyur and Sathyamangalam||Sathyamangalam and Nambiyur here received widespread rain in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Houses inundated The rain led to inundation of many houses and uprooting of two trees in Sathyamangalam. A compound wall of a house in Nambiyur was damaged and Dharmaraj (18), who was sleeping inside the house, sustained injuries. He has been admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. The district received a total rainfall of 356 mm. The rainfall recorded in other places are: Sathyamangalam 83 mm, Nambiyur 60 mm, Gunderipallam 46.4 mm, Bhavanisagar 27.2 mm, Varattupallam 26.2 mm, Gobichettipalayam 18.4 mm and Modakkurichi 18 mm. Water level in Bhavanisagar Dam stood at 101.97 feet, against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 4,668 cusecs and the discharge was 2,300 cusecs in to Lower Bhavani Project canal. The storage was 30.29 tmc, against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Officials said that once the water level touches 102 feet, the entire inflow would be discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-nambiyur-and-sathyamangalam/article36850504.ece
06 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Congregations banned in temples on Mahalaya Amavasya||The district administration has banned congregations in temples and on riverbeds for performing rituals on account of Mahalaya Amavasya on October 6.  A press release from District Collector H. Krishnanunni that as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, congregations have been banned in major temples in the district on Wednesday.  Entry restricted  Also, Karanampalayam anicut at Malayapalayam, Kodiveri anicut at Kadathur and Bhavanisagar dam would remain out of bounds to the public on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congregations-banned-in-temples-on-mahalaya-amavasya/article36850505.ece
06 October 2021||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One death, 93 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district on Tuesday reported 93 new cases of COVID-19 and one death. The district’s overall case tally rose to 1,02,357. While 98 persons were discharged, 1,110 persons were under treatment as on Tuesday. The death of one person took the district’s toll to 673. 49 in Salem  Salem district recorded 49 fresh cases on Tuesday. According to the Health Department officials, 37 cases were indigenous and five cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district recorded 48 fresh cases, all indigenous. While Dharmapuri recorded 31 new cases, Krishnagiri saw 33 new cases. As per bulletin, one patient died of COVID-19 in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-93-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article36850506.ece
06 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Ballot boxes, polling materials despatched to Kallakurichi, Villupuram amid security||Amid tight security, ballot boxes and other polling-related materials were despatched on Tuesday to over 2,500 polling stations in Kallakurichi and Villupuram districts ahead of the first phase of the rural local body polls on October 6. Election authorities said that foolproof arrangements had been made to conduct the polling in a free and fair manner. Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. ensuring strict compliance with COVID-19 protocols. In Kallakurichi district, the initial phase will cover four panchayat unions -- Tirukovilur, Thirunavalur, Rishivandhiyam and Ulundurpet. Elections are being held for 1,710 posts and as many as 5,717 candidates are in the fray in the district. Polling materials including ballot papers, stationery materials and forms were despatched from the strong rooms in counting centres through 207 zonal officers. An official said that COVID-19 kits comprising 13 items such as masks, gloves and hand sanitisers were also sent to 939 polling stations. Election duty orders were issued to 6,304 polling staff on Tuesday. Vulnerable booths As many as 81 polling booths have been identified as vulnerable. Additional police personnel would be deployed at sensitive, vulnerable and critical polling booths. Webcasting has been arranged at 84 polling booths while arrangements have been made to videograph the polling procedures at 84 booths. As many as 774 polling booths will be under CCTV surveillance. In Villupuram district, the first phase will cover seven panchayat unions - Mugaiyur, Thiruvenainallur, Kandamangalam, Vikravandi, Olakkur, Vanur and Gingee. As many as 13,074 polling staff will be deployed for the first phase in 1,569 polling stations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ballot-boxes-polling-materials-despatched-to-kallakurichi-villupuram-amid-security/article36850685.ece
06 October 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Preliminary works on first solar energy park in T.N. have begun’||Preliminary works to establish the State’s first solar energy park at Tiruvarur by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) have begun, according to Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, he said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had recently announced that the State government would set up 4,000 MW solar power generating units. It had been announced that all districts in the State would have a solar energy park. The first park would be set up in Tiruvarur and Tangedco officials had begun the process. Mr. Senthilbalaji said Tamil Nadu, which made its mark in tapping natural energy sources, particularly wind, would emerge as a model State in tapping solar energy in the country. The State ‘s energy demand was about 16,000 MW a day. Nearly 50% of the energy was being met by procuring power from private suppliers at excessive cost. It was with the aim of bridging the gap that the State government had embarked on a plan to tap solar energy. It would bring down energy procurement cost to a great extent. In order to improve the efficiency of power distribution, it had been decided to establish 204 sub-stations and upgrade 12 existing sub-stations in the State. According to a study, 8,905 transformers encountered frequent faults due to power fluctuation. They would be replaced with new transformers. More than 2,500 transformers had so far been replaced in different parts of the State. Earlier, Mr. Senthilbalaji visited Kolanthagoundanur along with Collector T. Prabu Shankar and inspected the damaged tenements constructed by Tamil Nadu Urban Development Corporation about 25 years ago. The Minister distributed welfare assistance to the residents, who had been moved to a government school. He also assured them that steps would be taken to build new houses for them as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preliminary-works-on-first-solar-energy-park-in-tn-have-begun/article36850464.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Church cases: Kerala High Court wants SC verdict implemented||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday reiterated that it wanted to see the Supreme Court verdict was implemented in the Malankara Church dispute cases. Justice Devan Ramachandran orally observed that the continuance of a long-standing dispute could only help vested interests and not the real devotees on either side. The court called upon both the Jacobite and Orthodox factions to abide by the 1934 Church constitution and permit the churches to function as “the abode of God rather than a place of war”. In fact, the court wanted to ensure that peace was prevailing in the State. The court noted that the dispute had now gone too far. The Supreme Court had ended the disputes upholding the 1934 constitution. It was time for everyone to understand that the fight could not continue. The court made the observations when a petition filed by the Orthodox faction seeking police protection for the administration of several churches in the State came up for hearing. The court observed that it was the last to send police into churches to implement the Supreme Court verdict. However, when the court was pushed, certainly that option would have to be explored. Both the factions should understand that the history of litigations had virtually ended with the verdict of the top court. The heads of the factions should decide how the rift could be resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/church-cases-kerala-high-court-wants-sc-verdict-implemented/article36850348.ece
06 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||A 35-year-old man was arrested by the police on charges of misbehaving with his 15-year-old differently-abled niece in Denkanikottai here. The police said that the man allegedly misbehaved with the girl following a property dispute between the families. A case has been registered under POCSO Act at the Denkanikottai All Women Police Station. The accused was arrested and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-under-pocso-act/article36850513.ece
06 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Six Madurai girls bag medals in weightlifting tourney in Nepal||For P. Kanchana, the sports teacher at Sarada Vidyalaya (SV), 18 years of labour has brought sweet success. For the first time, six of her students have returned with a haul of medals and overall champions trophy in an international weightlifting tournament. The Madurai team represented Tamil Nadu among 13 other States from India that participated in the Indo-Nepal Championship-2021 held in September. “This was the first time the girls travelled outside the country and returned with five gold and two silver medals in different weight categories and the best team trophy,” an elated Kanchana told The Hindu . She too bagged the Master's gold medal in the +87kg category. So far, her students bagged medals at the district, regional and State levels and also qualified for the nationals. “My students come from under-privileged families and my aim is to train them well in the sport so that it helps them in future for higher studies under sports quota or with small job opportunities,” she said. From a tailor and autorickshaw driver to housemaid and loader's daughter, the girls worked up their way hard to fight poverty, hunger and other family adversities. It is the fruit of their individual grit, determination and sweat that makes them a part of sporting folklore now. For Harini Ganesh, it was an important opportunity. She won gold at district level for last three years, but lost at the State. “I never gave up and continued to practise hard under Kanchana coach,” said the now final-year Lady Doak College student, who bagged a gold beating 22 opponents in 61-64 kg category. From Class VII She took to weightlifting in Class VII at SV. “It was out of boredom of attending classroom lectures. When the coach came asking if anybody was interested in weightlifting training, I joined to bunk classes but soon began to enjoy,” she said. Her mother, a housemaid worried about financing her tournaments. “She would save to pay registration fee of Rs. 600 for district level and Rs. 1,500 for State level. And I always wanted to repay her with a medal.” Many of her teammates’ parents worried about nutritious diet the girls required and whether weightlifting would affect their menstrual cycle. “We faced difficult situations but our coach passionately fostered our talent,” said Harini. The three-day tournament in Pokhara, Nepal, costed Rs. 35,000 each and the girls were lucky to find sponsors in State Finance Minister PTR Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, former MLA P. Saravanan and other philanthropists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-madurai-girls-bag-medals-in-weightlifting-tourney-in-nepal/article36850776.ece
06 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses recruited on contract seek regularisation of service||Nurses recruited on contract through Medical Recruitment Board (MRB) from 2015 staged a protest here on Tuesday demanding regularisation of their service. It was part of a State-wide protest by around 12,000 nurses, said a press release. In Madurai, there are 400 nurses recruited by the Tamil Nadu MRB on consolidated pay, who are posted at the Government Rajaji Hospital, the Urban Primary Health Centres and PHCs. Nurses from Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli also joined in solidarity of those from Chennai, Tiruchi and Coimbatore. In 2015, 7,000 nurses were recruited through MRB across the State and they were told that their service would be regularised within two years. “But even after six years of service, the nurses continue to hold temporary jobs. On the other hand, more nurses were recruited on a temporary basis for COVID-19 work,” said S. Raji of the nurses association in Madurai. The protestors met Collector Aneesh Sekhar and submitted their charter of demands. He promised to take it up with the Chief Minister, Health Minister, and Secretary. According to Ms. Raji, there are approximately 12,000 nurses on consolidated pay working across the State. After a protest in 2017, services of 2,000 nurses were regularised and another 1,200 were made permanent during the pandemic year. The rest were told to wait for vacancies and assured that opportunity would arise with the establishment of additional medical colleges. ‘Overworked’ “We have been repeatedly highlighting our demand and gone on hunger strike and protests,” she said. Earlier in January and again in March this year, the nurses had yet again raised their voice for permanent jobs, also in view of the fact that they were over-worked during the COVID-19 waves and yet their salaries were much less compared to the regular staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-recruited-on-contract-seek-regularisation-of-service/article36850880.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Violence against women is violation of freedom, rights’||Violence against women is a problem across the globe and it is a violation of fundamental freedom and rights, such as the right to liberty and security, as mentioned in the charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed. Justice K. Murali Shankar said that it affects women of all races, ethnic groups, classes and nationalities. Every age group of women have been facing violence in their life. The phenomenon of domestic violence is widely prevalent in India but remains invisible in the public domain. United Nations Committee on Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), in its general recommendation, requires the States to protect women against violence of any crime, especially occurring within the family. Accordingly, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act came to be enacted. The term ‘domestic violence’ has widened its scope to recognise domestic abuse as a punishable offence and the Act recognises women’s right to a violence-free home, the judge said. The judge made the observations while referring the issues to a larger Bench of the Court to decide whether the proceedings initiated under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act before the Magistrate Courts are civil proceedings or criminal proceedings. Whether the proceedings initiated under the Domestic Violence Act and pending before the Magistrate Court can be transferred to the civil court or family court by invoking Article 227 of the Constitution (Power of superintendence over all courts by the High Court). The judge also raised other connected queries with regard to the issue. The Registry was directed to place the matter before the Chief Justice for considering the issues for resolution by a larger Bench. The judge took note of the fact that there were conflicting judgments in the issue and raised the queries while hearing a batch of civil revision petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violence-against-women-is-violation-of-freedom-rights/article36850774.ece
06 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||She lives on after death||In her death, 23-year-old K. Karthika has gifted a new lease of life to seven individuals in Madurai, Tiruchi and Chennai, who were fighting for their survival awaiting organ transplant. Arapalayam resident Karthika had an acute head ache last week and was taken to a private clinic for treatment. With no improvement in her condition, she was taken to Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) on Sunday, where after tests she was declared ‘brain dead’ the same evening. Her medical condition was explained to her husband Kasi who benevolently agreed to donate her organs that were functioning well to help save lives of others. With legal permission from the family and State government, the medical team of MMHRC harvested Karthika’s heart, lungs, liver, and pair of eyes and kidneys. The liver and one of the kidneys were successfully transplanted into patients under treatment at MMHRC while the other kidney was taken to a private hospital in Tiruchi. The eyes were donated to Aravind Eye Hospital in Madurai. The heart and lungs were airlifted to a private hospital in Chennai. The hospital thanked the police for facilitating a traffic-free corridor from the hospital to the airport. The hospital authorities thanked Karthika’s husband and her family for giving their consent to donate her organs, which now enables seven other critically sick persons to live on. According to the hospital’s transplant project manager S. Johnson, this is the fourth cadaver organ transplant surgery performed during the pandemic year. “On an average, we have been able to do up to nine such surgeries in a year, but due to COVID-19, the number has reduced,” he said, and added, “cadaver organ donation needs to get a push for people to understand how it can help to save lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/she-lives-on-after-death/article36850778.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Provide forms for postal savings schemes in Tamil, says MP||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has appealed to Chief Postmaster General, Tamil Nadu, to provide all forms of postal savings schemes in Tamil to enable local people fill them up without any difficulty. In a letter addressed to the Chief Postmaster General, Mr. Venkatesan said that all the forms are in English and Hindi and laypeople find it difficult to fill those forms. Hence they have to depend on others for making deposits. Stating that India had multi-lingual diversity, he said government departments should be sensitive with regard to making customers comfortable in communication. Money order forms were available in Tamil earlier. But it was dispensed with while digital forms were introduced. Likewise payment slips and withdrawal slips for deposit accounts, which were earlier in Tamil, are also not available now. Even big private companies, though with commercial intent, give option to converse and communicate in regional languages. But a government entity, which has to perform like blood vessels to connect the common man with the society, is not doing it. Terms and conditions Secondly, customers have to understand terms and conditions properly when they enter a contract with the department. When they make deposits they are to be informed of obligations on both sides.Thirdly, it is the bounden duty of Central government departments to use regional languages in non- Hindi speaking States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-forms-for-postal-savings-schemes-in-tamil-says-mp/article36850881.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Young woman’s organs give new lease of life to 7 persons||In her death, 23-year-old K. Karthika gifted a new lease of life to seven individuals in Madurai, Tiruchi and Chennai, who were awaiting organ transplant. Aarapalayam resident Karthika suffered acute head ache last week and was taken to a private nursing home for treatment. With no improvement in her condition, she was taken to Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) on Sunday, where all necessary tests for brain function declared her ‘brain dead’ the same evening. Her medical condition was explained to her husband, Kasi, who benevolently agreed to donate her organs that were functioning well to help save the lives of others. With legal permission from the family and the State government, the medical team of MMHRC harvested Karthika’s heart, lungs, liver, eyes and kidneys. The liver and one of the kidneys were successfully transplanted into patients under treatment at MMHRC while the other kidney was taken to a private hospital in Tiruchi. The eyes were donated to Aravind Eye Hospital in Madurai. The heart and lungs were airlifted to a private hospital in Chennai. The hospital thanked the police for facilitating a traffic-free corridor from the hospital to the airport. The hospital authorities thanked Karthika’s husband and her family for giving their consent to donate her organs, which now enables seven other critically sick persons to live on. According to the hospital’s transplant project manager, Johnson. S, this was the fourth cadaver organ transplant surgery done during the pandemic year. “On an average, we have been able to do up to nine such surgeries in a year, but due to COVID-19, the number has reduced,” he said, and added, “cadaver organ donation needs to get a push for people to understand how it can help to save lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-womans-organs-give-new-lease-of-life-to-7-persons/article36850679.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cong., CPI (M) protest killing of farmers in UP||Congress and Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadres staged separate demonstrations here on Tuesday protesting against the death of four farmers who were killed after a car ploughed through them in Uttar Pradesh. Madurai urban district Congress president V. Karthikeyan led the protest in the city. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Karthikeyan condemned the Uttar Pradesh government for not arresting the accused for the brutal killing of the farmers. “Video evidence of the gory incident has gone viral on the social media. But the Bharatiya Janata Party government is yet to arrest the son of Union Minister, Ajay Mishra,” he said. However, the UP government was quick to detain Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi who was proceeding only console the family members of the deceased farmers. “Is this a democratic country? Cannot a leader of a national party visit the house of farmers who were killed?” he asked. He said that the Congress cadres will intensify the protest if Ms. Priyanka was not immediately released. The party’s rural north district president, Alathur Ravichadran, was present Meanwhile, the CPI(M) cadres staged a protest condemning the Centre and the UP government for the death of the four innocent farmers. The Centre has not bothered to find out a solution to the opposition to the three new farm laws even as the farmers were protesting for nearly a year now, said party’s rural district secretary, C. Ramakrishnan. “The farmers have not given up their protest, for the new law will not provide them remunerative price for their produce, make them slaves to corporates. Besides, the de-listing of certain important foodgrains and vegetables from the Essential Commodities Act will only lead to hoarding, create artificial shortage and result in exorbitant price,” he said. When the entire protest was going on peacefully, the act of the Minister led to the killing. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should own responsibility for the incident,” he said. At least now, the government should take the issue seriously and try to find out a solution to the farmerss’ protest at the earliest, he said. The party’s urban district secretary, Vijayarajan, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-cpi-m-protest-killing-of-farmers-in-up/article36850884.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special train from Oct. 7||Southern Railway has proposed to run unreserved express special train between Madurai and Rameswaram from October 7 until further advice. Train number 06654 Rameswaram - Madurai express special train will leave Rameswaram at 5.40 a.m. and reach Madurai at 9.30 a.m. In the return direction, train number 06655 Madurai - Rameswaram express special train will leave Madurai at 6.10 p.m. and reach Rameswaram at 10.05 p.m. These trains will halt at Pamaban, Mandapam, Uchipuli, Ramanathapuram, Sattirakudi, Paramakudi, Sudiyur, Manamadurai, Tiruppachetti, Tiruppuvanam, Silaiman, Madurai East Railway stations. Another unreserved express special train will be run between Tiruchi - Dindigul from October 7 and Dindigul from October 8 until further advice. Train number 06499 Tiruchi - Dindigul express special train will leave Tiruchi at 6.30 p.m. and reach Dindigul at 8.45 p.m. In the return direction, train number 06498 Dindigul - Tiruchi express special train will leave Dindigul at 6.15 a.m. and reach Tiruchi at 8.30 a.m. These trains have been provided with stoppage at Tamaraipadi, Vadamadurai, Ayyalur, Kalpattichatram, Vaiyampatti, Chettiapatti, Manaparai, Kolathur and Pungudi Railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-from-oct-7/article36850777.ece
06 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC summons Tiruchi Collector||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday summoned the Tiruchi Collector to appear before the court for non-compliance of an earlier order of the court that directed the removal of encroachments from a water channel in Tiruchi district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the Collector to appear before the court on October 21. The court was hearing the contempt petition filed by S. Thirupathi of Tiruchi District. The petitioner said that he had made a representation to the Collector against the proposal for laying a metal road over a water channel at Poolampatti in Thenur village. As the works had commenced, he filed a petition seeking a direction to restrain the authorities from laying the road over the water channel. The court had directed the authorities to look into the representation made by the petitioner and pass appropriate orders. However, the authorities had only suspended the road works and the encroachment made on the water channel was not removed. Therefore, the petitioner filed a contempt petition for non-compliance of the court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-summons-tiruchi-collector/article36850760.ece
06 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to remove mud road laid across river||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a response from the State on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to remove a mud road laid across the Thamirabarani river. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the authorities to file a counter to the petition filed by C. Saravanan of Thoothukudi district. He complained that the mud road was laid to illegally to transport river sand. The petitioner said that the mud road was laid across the river from Maavadi Pannai to Eral Melamangalakurichi in Thoothukudi district. llegal sand quarrying was taking place in the river and the road was laid to transport the sand, he complained. He said the government officials were colluding with the private persons and facilitating the illegal sand quarrying and transportation. Despite sending several representations seeking action against the officials, the quarrying was continuing and no action has been taken. The petitioner sought a direction to the State to remove the mud road laid across the river and take appropriate action against those involved in the illegal sand quarrying. He also sought the constitution of a committee to evaluate the extent of the sand quarrying that took place in the Thamirabarani river. The case was adjourned for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-remove-mud-road-laid-across-river/article36850767.ece
06 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 128.10 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 2205 cusecs and discharge of 1300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 54.33 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1859 cusecs and discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5630 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36850481.ece
06 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 82 fresh COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 82 new cases on Tuesday. Mahe reported the death to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,843. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,443), Karaikal (248), Yanam (107) and Mahe (45). Puducherry logged 46 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,368 tests, followed by Karaikal (22), Yanam (4) and Mahe (10). The test positivity rate was 1.53%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.04%. With 92 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory were 643. Of this, 106 patients were in hospitals and 537 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,26,669 cases and 1,24,183 patients recovered. Of an estimated 18.15 lakh tests done to date, over 15.40 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 7,290 persons took the vaccine shot against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 10,29,539 doses of vaccines, including 3,29,508 second doses.  The Union Territory has so far administered 10,29,539 doses of vaccines, including 3,29,508 second doses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-82-fresh-covid-19-infections/article36850692.ece
06 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Scholarship, cash award and a free trip to NASA await toppers in talent hunt exam||The bounty for toppers in the 12th Aakash National Talent Hunt Exam (ANTHE) 2021 to be held in December will include full scholarship, cash award and a free trip to NASA. Addressing a press conference here, Aakash Chaudhry, managing director, Aakash Educational Services Limited (AESL), which administers ANTHE 2021, said the exam will be held in both online and offline mode from December 4 to 12 across 24 States and Union Territories. The test preparatory services provider will offer up to 100% scholarships for Class VII-XII students to the institute’s most sought after NEET and IIT-JEE coaching programmes for aspiring doctors and engineers. In addition to scholarship on tuition fee, top scorers will also be given cash awards. A novelty for students this year is that five performers across grades will be awarded a free trip to NASA along with one parent. As an additional benefit, students qualifying ANTHE will also get a school booster course free of cost from its subsidiary, Meritnation. A one-hour online test will be held between 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. during all exam days, while the offline exams will be conducted on December 5 and 12 in two shifts: 10:30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., across 215 centres of Aakash Institute across the country, adhering to COVID-19 guidelines of the respective States /Union Territories. Students can choose a one-hour slot convenient to them. The results will be declared on January 2 for Class X-XII students, and on January 4, for Class VII-IX students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scholarship-cash-award-and-a-free-trip-to-nasa-await-toppers-in-talent-hunt-exam/article36850683.ece
06 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP holds meeting on local bodies poll||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday held a meeting of its office-bearers to prepare for the local bodies poll in the Union Territory. A meeting of office-bearers and booth-level workers of the party in all the 5 municipalities and 10 commune panchayats was held at the party office. “We are preparing for the local bodies poll as planned. Committees have been formed for all the wards in municipalities and commune panchayats,” said a senior party functionary. The meeting was attended by Home Minister A. Namassivayam, party in-charge for Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana and BJP president V. Saminathan. A source in the BJP said the party was keen to contest at least three municipalities, including Puducherry, and at least three to four commune panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-holds-meeting-on-local-bodies-poll/article36850690.ece
06 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Honour for Pondicherry varsity faculty||T. Shanmuganantham, Associate Professor, Department of Electronics Engineering, Pondicherry University, has been conferred the ‘International Researcher Award 2021’ by the International Research Association, United Kingdom (UK). The award is in recognition of the research contributions of Mr. Shanmuganantham spanning 20 years. These include 285 Scopus publications as per Scopus database, 112 Web of Science Publications, 115 Articles in ORCID and 30.02 Research Gate points, Pondicherry University said in a press note issued here. The award was presented at a virtual ceremony held recently. Felicitation Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor of Pondicherry University, felicitated Mr. Shanmuganatham on the achievement. The International Research Association has instituted the awards to honour researchers for excellence in various fields of science and technology, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-honour-for-pondicherry-varsity-faculty/article36850693.ece
06 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal-Jaffna ferry service awaits MEA nod: Tamilisai||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said that ferry service between Karaikal and Jaffna in Sri Lanka, was awaiting approval from the External Affairs Ministry. Addressing mediapersons after flagging off ‘Samudra Naukayan’, an ocean expedition of the National Cadets Corps (NCC) group, headquarters, Puducherry, at the Thengaithittu harbour, Ms. Soundararajan said a ferry service had already existed, but was later stopped. “Steps are being taken to resume the sea connectivity linking Karaikal with Jaffna. The Sri Lankan Minister and (Deputy) High Commissioner held talks in this regard. Once certain permissions are obtained from the External Affairs Ministry, the decks would be cleared to resume the service,” she said. The proposal to revive the Karaikal-Jaffna ferry service, as a component of the Sagarmala Programme of the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways to promote coastal shipping, is being actively pursued by the Indian and Sri Lankan governments since 2011. The scheme envisages commencement of passenger shipping between Karaikal, Puducherry, and Kankesanthurai (KKS Port) Jaffna, Sri Lanka, under the provisions of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the two countries in 2011. Noting that she was flagging off the NCC’s sea expedition just a day after participating in the inaugural session of World Space Week 2021, organised at Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh, the Lt. Governor said it was emblematic of how the country was taking on challenges in space and on sea. For the participating cadets, the expedition, which coincides with the 75th anniversary celebrations of Indian Independence, would prepare them to face challenges. The sailing adventure could be a prelude for people travelling in boats /ships from Puducherry to Karaikal as tourism is developed, she added. Citing the boat ride in Telangana, where she administrates as a Governor, that took pilgrims from Nagarjuna Sagar Dam to Srisailam and back, Ms. Soundararajan said similar initiatives should be conceived here to develop nautical tourism potential of Puducherry. Declining to comment on the local bodies election since the matter was sub-judice, Ms. Soundararajan however said civic polls were an important exercise in the decentralisation of power and for fostering development at the grassroots level. She hoped that the elections were held from October 21. On the health front, Ms. Soundararajan said all steps were being taken to prevent the spread of denguer, which had the potential to affect more children than COVID-19. The government is also taking all preparations to face the northeast monsoon and to prevent the spread of diseases. She also sought the cooperation of the public in preventing mosquito-borne diseases by keeping household premises clean and clear of freshwater collection. “It is very important that those who develop fever visit a hospital for evaluation,” she said. Development of infrastructure is among the top priorities and already funds had been allocated under the Smart City Project, the Lt. Governor said. Lt. Commander Ravishankar is leading the NCC voyage with 60 cadets, including 25 girls. A Naval officer, two NCC officers, six naval training officers and 27 other officials are accompanying the team from Puducherry to Karaikal. After passing through Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Tharangambadi, the team will reach Karaikal and return in the same direction to reach Thengaithittu on October 15. They will be covering 302 km in a span of 11 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-jaffna-ferry-service-awaits-mea-nod-tamilisai/article36850460.ece
06 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Congress workers demand release of Priyanka Gandhi||Congress party workers staged a protest in front of the Salem Collectorate on Tuesday, condemning the arrest of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Uttar Pradesh recently. Ms.Gandhi was arrested while she was on her way to meet the families of farmers who were run over by the car driven by Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son during a farmers’ protest at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. About 100 party workers raised slogans against the BJP government and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over Ms. Vadra’s arrest. Terming the arrest undemocratic, they demanded her release immediately. The also demanded the arrest of the Minister’s son and sought the resignation of Mr.Adityanath. Demonstration in Erode Condemning the alleged killing of the farmers in Uttar Pradesh members of various political parties and farmers’ associations staged a demonstration at Surampatti Four Road in Erode. The protesters said farmers had been staging a massive protest against farm laws in New Delhi for the last 10 months. “The BJP leaders deliberately killed the farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri,” they alleged. They wanted murder cases registered against Mr. Mishra and Uttar Pradesh Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-workers-demand-release-of-priyanka-gandhi/article36850511.ece
06 October 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Woman, son end lives in suicide pact||A 55-year-old woman and her 30-year-old son ended their lives in a suspected suicide pact near Paramathi Velur. The woman’s husbandhas been admitted to a private hospital. The deceased were identified as Fathima and her son Barkath (30). Syed Akbar, the woman’s husband, is undergoing treatment. According to the police, the family allegedly took the extreme step on Monday night following mounting debts. Relatives, who came to know about this, rushed them to a private hospital. However, Fathima and Barkath died without responding to treatment on Tuesday. Paramathi Velur police have registered a case. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050. Petition submitted In Salem, a woman and her family petitioned the District Collector on Tuesday demanding action against a private finance firm. In her petition, Rajes from Vazhapadi had alleged that goons engaged by the firm attacked her family and snatched away her chain for delaying monthly instalments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-son-end-lives-in-suicide-pact/article36850507.ece
06 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Conserve marine ecosystem, students told||Students from two colleges witnessed underwater marine life through snorkelling. As the Wildlife Week is being celebrated by the Tamil Nadu Forest Department with awareness programmes from October 2 to 8, an underwater marine life awareness campaign was conducted at Vaan Island in Gulf of Mannar on Tuesday in association with Suganthi Devadason Marine Research Institute (SDMRI), Thoothukudi. Sixty participants including 32 students with zoology and marine science background from Kamaraj College, Thoothukudi, St. Xavier’s College, Tirunelveli, and SDMRI participated in this campaign. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Chennai, Akash Deep Baruah, inaugurated the campaign and stressed the need to get involved in conservation and management of marine ecosystem and associated biodiversity. This is the first time that Forest Department is organising an awareness campaign at Vaan Island, located in the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park (GOMMNP) for students to motivate them in the marine conservation, he said. He urged them to propagate the message of marine ecosystem conservation and take up research in this field. Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve N. Senthil Kumar explained the objective behind creating Marine Biosphere Reserves and its role in conservation and protection of marine organisms and their environment. Demonstrations on Scuba diving techniques by professionals led by K. Diraviya Raj from SDMRI were held and the participants were trained in snorkelling. The participants could witness the underwater marine life in particular seagrass beds and associated biodiversity like sea cucumber, star fish, sea anemone, clown fishes using snorkelling and were thrilled to see them live in the natural environment. The participants collected plastics washed ashore as part of the programme. The forest department issued certificates to the participants. Abhishek Tomar, District Forest Officer and Wildlife Warden, GOMMNP T. Charusree, Commissioner, Thoothukudi Corporation and J.K. Patterson Edward, Director, SDMRI, participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conserve-marine-ecosystem-students-told/article36850763.ece
06 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Lifer for music teacher for murdering wife||The Mahila Court here has awarded life imprisonment to a music school teacher for murdering his wife. According to prosecution, music school teacher A. Julie Bharath, 41, of Sivagiri in Tenkasi district married Aruna Devi of Vilaathikulam in Thoothukudi district in 2012. The couple were living with the parents of Aruna in Vilaathikulam as ‘joint family.’ When Julie Bharath insisted on living in another house separately, Aruna turned down the proposal that triggered heated argument between them on several occasions. As an altercation broke out on November 7, 2015 on the same issue, Julie Bharath stabbed Aruna Devi to death. The Vilaathikulam police subsequently arrested Julie Bharath. Mahila Court Judge Pandiarajan awarded life imprisonment to Julie Bharathi on Tuesday and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifer-for-music-teacher/article36850486.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Underpass nears completion||Construction of the vehicular underpass at Kondayampettai-Sanjeevi Nagar intersection on the city stretch of Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway is almost over. The underpass with a road overbridge is in the final stages of construction and it would be ready within 10 days, according to sources in National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). “The work is almost complete. The final layer of the road has to be laid and markings have to be done. Due to the recent wet spell, it may take a few days. We expect the works to be completed within the next 10 days,” an official of NHAI said. Already, vehicles are being allowed to ply on the ROB and underpass. Traffic on the carriageways is allowed alternatively and regulated depending on the works. With construction work on the new facility, along the busy Chennai Bypass Road, here had proceeded swiftly. The project commenced in October last but was interrupted in January due to unseasonal rain and later due to the lockdown restrictions. However, the works resumed quickly and they have been completed within the scheduled period of a year. “The project is in fact cited as a model for timely completion within the scheduled period,” the official said. Construction of the underpass would meet a felt need of motorists and residents. Accidents became frequent at Kondayampettai intersection ever since the bypass road was made a four-lane highway by NHAI. Hundreds of vehicles, including lorries and buses, cross the highway at the intersection from either side, creating chaos. Police have been forced to place multiple barricades to regulate vehicles. It was sanctioned in 2015 after public outcry over a spate of accidents at the spot and an inspection by former Union Minister of State Pon. Radhakrishnan. The underpass, along with seven minor bridges along the city stretch of the bypass road, was sanctioned at a total cost of about Rs. 30.8 crore. Once complete, the vehicular underpass is expected to ensure free flow of highway traffic on both directions and reduce congestion at the intersection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underpass-nears-completion/article36850455.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protests against Priyanka Gandhi’s arrest continue in delta districts||The Congress cadre on Tuesday staged demonstrations in Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Thanjavur districts condemning the detention of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra by UP police in Hargaon Ms. Vadra was arrested while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri district in the State to visit the families of the four farmers who were killed after a vehicle that was part of the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs and BJP MP Ajay Kumar Mishra was alleged to have deliberately run over them on Sunday. Around 110 party functionaries assembled in Pudukottai Town where they staged a demonstration led by party district president Murugesan. In Ariyalur, about 70 party members staged a demonstration near the Collectorate headed by party State vice-president G. Rajendran. The demonstration in Thanjavur Town was held near the Collectorate. About 40 members took part in the demonstration that was led by the party’s corporation president T.G. Rajendran. In Perambalur Town, the demonstration in which about 30 party members took part was held near Gandhi statue. It was led by paty district president Suresh Kumar, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-against-priyanka-gandhis-arrest-continue-in-delta-districts/article36850451.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi surpasses season’s average rainfall||The district has recorded more than normal rainfall during the south-west monsoon. The district receives an average of 788 mm of rainfall a year. It gets 221 mm from S-W monsoon from June to September and 427 mm from northeast monsoon. According to sources, the season has so far been good in most parts of the district. It has received good rainfall in all seasons except summer. As of October 5, it has recorded 500 mm from January. As against 14 mm, the district recorded 135 mm in January and February. It should have recorded 125 mm in March, April and May but received just 42 mm. Since then, the district continues to get bountiful rainfall. As against the average rainfall of 221 mm in June, July, August and September, the data shows that it received 325 mm, 104 mm more than the normal rain. The first and second week of October does not have rainy days. However, three rainy days have already been recorded in the first week. “The trend shows that we will have a goodsambaseason and we do not anticipate problems in irrigation,” says M. Murugesan, Joint Director of Agriculture, Tiruchi. Though the present wet spell may not be helpful to the paddy crop as plantation is yet to begin, it will be beneficial to recharge the groundwater level. However, plantation can be done with the showers without waiting for channel irrigation. The rain has come good for standing rainfed crop in different parts of the district. While cotton has been raised on 9,800 hectares, 13,000 hectares has been brought under maize cultivation. Similarly, fodder sorghum and grain sorghum have been raised on 24,000 hectares. Field reports indicate that the rainfed crops have been benefited due to the ongoing rain, Mr. Murugesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-surpasses-seasons-average-rainfall/article36850466.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wait for pending salary gets agonisingly longer for guest lecturers||The agonising wait of guest lecturers of government arts and science colleges to get pending salaries has not ended. There are 2,423 guest lecturers in the first shift and 1,661 in the second shift in 59 government arts and science colleges. The higher education department had recently announced sanction of Rs. 36 crore towards salary for 11 months for the 1,661 guest lecturers in the second shift. The amount has been apportioned college-wise for disbursement for the teachers. The sense of uncertainty for the 2,423 guest lecturers in the first shift is, however, far from over. The sanction of the salary initially for the guest lecturers in the second shift and, subsequently, for those in the first shift has been in vogue. A senior guest lecturer says many are in penury and expect the government to complete the process of salary disbursal in time such that the loans they have taken from private lenders to run their families could be repaid before Diwali. The guest lecturers face difficulty in securing personal loans from banks since they get their salaries only for 11 months in a year. They are required to forgo salary for May. However, this time around, the teachers in the first shift apprehend that the salary will be delayed further until the process of filling the post of principal in about 40 B-grade colleges is completed. Subsequently, the higher education department also conducts transfer counselling for teachers whereafter a certain number of guest lecturers are shown the door in the event of regular vacancies being filled. These teachers end up in a crisis situation, as they will not be able to seek jobs in self-financing colleges also in the midst of an academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-pending-salary-gets-agonisingly-longer-for-guest-lecturers/article36850448.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pat for Nirmala Sitharaman||The Tiruchi chapter of Laghu Udyog Bharathi, an organisation serving interests of small-scale industries with nation-wide presence, has thanked the Union Ministry for addressing the major concerns of the MSME sector. Due to the implementation of RBI restructuring norms 2.0, the MSME units were unable to get additional loan. The need of MSMEs for moratorium and extension of last date for Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) was also not addressed. A delegation of Laghu Udyog Bharathi called on Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month and highlighted its concerns. The latest announcement by the Ministry of Finance has signified that the major concerns of the MSME sector have been factored in, K. Jeyendran, president, LUB Tiruchi Chapter, and G. Satheesh, Secretary, said in a press release. As per the latest announcement, the existing MSME borrowers under ECLGS 1.0, 2.0 would be eligible for additional credit support of up to 10 percent of total outstanding as on February 29, 2020 or March 31, 2021, whichever was higher. Businesses that have not availed assistance under ECLGS 1.0, 2.0 can avail credit support of up to 30% of their credit outstanding as on March 31, 2021. Businesses in sectors specified under ECLGS 3.0 that have not availed ECLGS can avail credit up to 40% of their outstanding as on March 31. To support various businesses impacted by the second wave of pandemic, the timeline of the ECLGS has been extended till March 31, 2022, or till guarantees for an amount of Rs. 4.50 lakh crore were issued under the scheme, whichever was earlier. Further, the last date for disbursement under the scheme has also been extended to June 30, 2022. Thanking the Finance Minister, the LUB functionaries said the modifications issued by the Finance Ministry would ensure that businesses adversely impacted would get enhanced collateral-free security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pat-for-nirmala-sitharaman/article36850449.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air passengers arrested||The Customs Air Intelligence Unit has arrested two air passengers on the charge of smuggling gold weighing 1.25 kg at the international airport here. Acting on intelligence, unit officers intercepted a male passenger who landed here from Dubai by an Air India Express flight on Monday. During personal search, they found two bundles of gold in paste form concealed in the rectum. The bundles were recovered and on extraction one gold ingot of 24K purity and weighing 555 gm was recovered and seized, a press release from the Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) here said. The officers intercepted another male passenger who arrived by the same flight. Three bundles of gold in paste form concealed in rectum was recovered while conducting personal search. On extraction, one gold ingot of 24K purity weighing 697.5 grams was recovered and seized. The total value of the seized gold was put at Rs. 59.33 lakh. Both passengers were arrested under the Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-passengers-arrested/article36850450.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of platform ticket resumes at 27 more railway stations||The Tiruchi Railway Division has reintroduced sale of platform tickets at 27 more stations under its jurisdiction with effect from Tuesday as per the request of the travelling public. The cost of the ticket is Rs. 50 per person as per Railway Board order, a communication from the railway division here said. The 27 railway stations where sale of platform tickets have been re-introduced are: Ponmalai, Srirangam, Budalur, Papanasam, Vaithiswaran Koil, Sirkazhi, Chidambaram, Cuddalore Port Junction, Tirupadripuliyur, Tiruvannamalai, Tirukkovilur, Vellore, Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Tiruverumbur, Nagapattinam, Nagore, Velankanni, Pattukottai, Tiruchi Town, Tiruchi Fort, Ariyalur, Lalgudi, Pennadam, Karaikal, Panruti and Nidamangalam Junction, the communication further said. Platform tickets are already being issued at Rs. 50 per person at Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam and Puducherry railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-platform-ticket-resumes-at-27-more-railway-stations/article36850452.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Navaratri Utsav’ planned||The Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, in association with Infosys Foundation, will host a cultural outreach programme, Navaratri Utsav 2021, on the National College campus here from October 7 to 15. Students of Srirangam Natyalaya will present ‘Valli Kalyanam,’ a group dance on the opening day. The subsequent days will feature solo dance by Shabin Bright, vocal duet by Adarshini-Akarshini, group dance by Nrityashanthi Academy of Divine Arts; fusion bhajan by Brahaddhwani team and vocal concerts by Aditya Rangan, Samiskha Sreekanthan and Koviladi R. Madhwa Prasad and party, among others. The events will be held at 6 p.m. every day and would be live streamed on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/navaratri-utsav-planned/article36850456.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private unit sealed at Thennur||A private establishmen tthat was functioning at Thennur in the city with fake licence was sealed by Food Safety officials on Tuesday. The establishment, ‘Nutrition Centre,’ was functioning with an alleged fake licence certificate. Two persons, who were allegedly involved in producing the fake certificate, were arrested on Monday, R. Ramesh Babu, District Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, said in a press release. Following this, the centre was sealed by a team of officials on Tuesday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-unit-sealed-at-thennur/article36850457.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||277 new cases, 5 more deaths in delta region||The central region reported 277 fresh cases. Five persons, three from Thanjavur district and one each from Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi, died of complications caused by infection. Thanjavur continued to report the maximum number of cases among the nine districts in the with 83 persons testing positive. Tiruchi stood next with 51 cases and Tiruvarur was close behind with 50 fresh cases. All other districts reported less than 25 cases. While Mayiladuthurai reported 24 fresh cases, Nagapattinam district had 20, Pudukottai 19, Karur 17, Ariyalur 7 and Perambalur six. Thanjavar had the maximum number of active cases with 817 patients undergoing treatment, including those on home treatment as on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi district had 622 active cases, Tiruvarur 621, Nagapattinam 308, Mayiladuthurai 239, Pudukottai 202, Karur 200, Perambalur 88 and Ariyalur 85.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/277-new-cases-5-more-deaths-in-delta-region/article36850459.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||First phase of polling today for 1,113 posts||As the district goes for the first phase of the rural civic polls on Wednesday, 3,48,042 voters including 1,69,765 men, 1,78,234 women and 43 other voters are expected to cast their votes in 621 polling booths including 182 sensitive polling booths. For the 2,069 posts, 6,879 persons filed their nominations and 5,522 candidates are in the fray for the civic polls to be held on Wednesday and Saturday after 173 nominations were rejected and 800 candidatures withdrawn. Another 384 including 6 village panchayat presidents and 378 village panchayat ward members were elected unopposed. In the first phase of the polling to be held on Wednesday, 3,006 candidates are contesting for 1,113 posts as 211 have been elected unopposed. In the second phase to be held on Saturday, 2,516 candidates are in the fray for 956 posts after 173 candidates including a village panchayat president and 172 village panchayat ward members were elected unopposed. In the second phase, 3,25,826 voters including 1,60,722 men, 1,65,091 women and 13 other voters will exercise their franchise in 567 polling booths including 151 sensitive booths. As the district houses 333 sensitive polling booths including182 booths in the first phase polling, web streaming will be done in 64 booths while the polling will be videographed in 74 booths. Micro observers will be posted in the remaining 44 booths. In the second phase, which will have 151 sensitive booths, web streaming of polling will be done in 39 booths and polling will be videographed in 36 booths. Micro observers will be posted in 76 booths. As the third and the last phase of the training was held on Tuesday, the 5,035 polling personnel to be used in the first phase polling received their orders at the end of the training and left for their booths. In the second phase of the polling, 4,516 polling personnel will be deployed. “While 2 flying squads have been deployed in the Maanur union, each one flying squad is on the move in the remaining 8 panchayat unions to check poll code violations. Since the round-the-clock election control room is functioning at the Collectorate, the public and the representatives of the candidates may file their complaints with the control room via 74026 08438 (WhatsApp number) and toll-free 1800 425 8373,” said Collector V. Vishnu, who monitored the movement of polling materials to the polling booths from some of the union offices here on Tuesday with police protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-phase-of-polling-today-for-1113-posts/article36850773.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadres stage protest against arrest of Priyanka Gandhi||Condemning the detention of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh, cadres of the Congress and its allies staged demonstration here on Tuesday. Led by Nanguneri MLA Ruby R. Manoharan, they raised slogans against the detention of Ms. Priyanka, who was detained in Uttar Pradesh on Monday when she tried to meet the protesting farmers after nine of them were mowed down by a speeding car allegedly driven by the son of a Union Minister. The protesters, who condemned the brutality being unleashed against the farmers with the backing of official machinery in Uttar Pradesh, said the protest by the Congress would continue until the Farm Acts were withdrawn. Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab, former DMK MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan, MDMK’s Tirunelveli city district secretary K.M.A. Nizam, CPI district secretary S. Kasi Viswanathan, CPI (M) district secretary K.G. Bhaskaran and the cadres of these parties participated in the agitation. In Thoothukudi, the Congress cadres staged demonstration in front of their party office at New Colony. In Kanniyakumari, Congress cadres staged demonstration in front of the Collectorate in which MP Vijay Vasanth, MLA J.G. Prince and party office-bearers participated. Dindigul The attack on farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh was a premeditated murder, charged Congress leader and former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil. Participating in a protest here on Tuesday, he said that the incident happened after Union Minister Ajay Mishra made an inflammatory speech against the protesting farmers. “It was instigated through anti-social elements. In a similar way, the farmers, who have been protesting for around a year in a very peaceful manner, have been attacked,” he said. He alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government had tacit support from the Centre. Stating that the attack was unprecedented, he said what had happened against the farmers in Uttar Pradesh could very well happen against anyone across the country. The agitators also condemned the arrest of party leader Priyanka Gandhi who was kept under preventive arrest when she went to console the family members of the victims. “No procedure for preventive arrest was followed in her case,” he complained. Ramanathapuram A similar protest by Congress cadre was held in Ramanathapuram. The party’s district secretary, Chelladurai Abdullah, led the protest. He said that the Modi government was functioning in an autocratic manner and was not bothered about any protests from any quarters. The mowing down of farmers reportedly by the Union Minster’s son was brutal, he said. Condemning the house arrest of Ms. Priyanka, Mr. Abdullah said that the Congress cadres will not rest till their leader was allowed to meet the family members of the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-cadres-stage-protest-against-arrest-of-priyanka-gandhi/article36850771.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Clash between two groups of youths||The Kalakkad police are on the lookout for two persons, who are working in an oil installation in South Sudan and two of their associates for assaulting two youths who objected to the rash driving of their car while going to Thalaiyanai, a picnic spot, According to police, C. Augustine, 26, of Puthu Street in Kalakkad and his friend D. Raj Mohan, also from the same area, were going to Thalaiyanai near Kalakkad recently. When they were crossing Moongiladi near Kalakkad, a group of youth from Azhagappapuram in Kanniyakumari district, who were also going to Thalaiyanai in a car to take bath in the river, terrified the public with the speed of the vehicle. When Mr. Augustine and Mr. Raj Mohan opposed it, those who were occupying the car, stopped the vehicle and verbally abused them in obscene language. After allegedly assaulting them, they also threatened them of dire consequences. When the identity of the occupants of the car was checked, they were identified as S. Michael Valprathan of Azhagappapuram in Kanniyakumari district, his associate A. George Thomson, also from Azhagappapuram, and two other unidentified persons. Based on a complaint from Mr. Augustine, the Kalakkad police have registered a case against Michael Valprathan, George Thomson and two others under Section 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation). The police found that both Michael Valprathan and George Thomson are working in an onshore oil installation in South Sudan. Steps are on to impound their passports and arrest the duo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clash-between-two-groups-of-youths/article36850766.ece
06 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns food business operators||All food business operators (FBO) in Tiruppur district must possess valid licence/registration number from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and strict action will be initiated against those operating without authorisation, District Collector S. Vineeth said. Chairing the FSSAI’s district level advisory committee meeting on Monday, he said that all FBOs in the district must mandatorily print their 14-digit licence/registration number from FSSAI in their bills, receipts and invoices by January 1, 2022. The FSSAI authorities must ensure the implementation of the repurpose used cooking oil initiative announced by the State government to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel in the district, he said in a release. Other initiatives of FSSAI such as eat right campus to ensure food safety at educational institutions and places of worship respectively must also be widely implemented, Mr. Vineeth said in the release. The officials must also crackdown on usage of adulterated tea dust and meat of dead animals across the district, the release said. Public grievances regarding food safety shall be communicated to the FSSAI via WhatsApp at 94440 42322.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-food-business-operators/article36850820.ece
06 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vanathi accuses Cong. of politicising Lakhimpur Kheri violence||BJP Mahila Morcha president and MLA Vanathi Srinivasan on Tuesday accused the Congress of politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh and of adopting double standards on the issue of the three farm laws. Addressing journalists in Tiruppur, she said that Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath has assured investigation into the violence and that the perpetrators will be punished. Death of eight persons The incident pertains to the death of eight persons on Sunday, including four farmers who were mowed down by a vehicle that allegedly belonged to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Ms. Srinivasan accused the Congress of attempting to revive a dead party using the farmers’ protests ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. “The people [of Uttar Pradesh] are clear. This politics will not work,” she asserted. Data collected She claimed that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government at the Centre had collected data regarding reforms in agriculture and the then-Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar had recommended the reforms present in the three farm laws introduced in 2020 by the BJP-led Central government. “Even many Chief Ministers from Congress had voiced support for these reforms in their election manifestos,” Ms. Srinivasan claimed, adding that the Congress has been opposing the three contentious laws “fearing the improvement in the lives of farmers.” CM letter on NEET On Chief Minister M.K. Stalin writing to his counterparts in 12 States to oppose the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), she said that the examination had already been upheld by the Supreme Court and urged that the DMK government must understand the reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanathi-accuses-cong-of-politicising-lakhimpur-kheri-violence/article36850818.ece
06 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Holiday for local body polls||The Labour Department has directed all employers to grant paid holidays for all employees on Wednesday and Saturday to enable them to vote at the local body elections. Action will be initiated against the firms that do not provide the paid holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holiday-for-local-body-polls/article36850817.ece
06 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance donated to KMF||A state-of-the-art cardio-neuro ambulance was donated to the Kotagiri Medical Fellowship Hospital (KMF) in the Nilgiris by Microland Foundation recently. “The ambulance will serve 41 villages within 10 km radius of Kotagiri,” a press release said. Pradeep Kar, Chairman and Managing Director, Microland Limited, said that the Microland Foundation has established a presence in the Nilgiris district with several environment and health-focused initiatives. Mr. Kar said that the organisation was committed to uplifting the state of healthcare in the Nilgiris and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-donated/article36850495.ece
06 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Even after 10 days, tiger still elusive||The tenth day of the operation to trap tiger MDT 23 at the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve continued without much success, as the tiger managed to evade forest trackers again on Tuesday. The Forest Department was confident that they had zeroed in on the location of the tiger near Sigur Road in Masinagudi on Tuesday. Forest staff, dressed in protective gear, entered the region, and began combing operations, as a tiger, believed to be MDT 23, was spotted in the area late Monday. However, despite a thorough search, the tiger could not be located. Forest teams then combed the surrounding areas and found a fresh cattle kill near Singara by a tiger. They said they did not know whether the cattle had been killed by MDT 23 or another tiger in the area. The tiger has not been captured on any camera traps set up since Saturday. Working with conservationists and experts, the Department has also retrieved data about the tiger’s movement patterns. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday evening, deputy director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (buffer zone) P. Arunkumar said five temporary perches had been set up on tree tops in Singara, where the cow was killed. He said veterinarians would be posted on the perches on Wednesday morning. The operation will continue on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/even-after-10-days-tiger-still-elusive/article36850480.ece
06 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain may dampen voter turnout in Vellore and nearby districts||Dark clouds with incessant rain since Monday night might dampen the turnout of voters in the 2, 617 polling booths across Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts for the first phase of the rural local body elections on Wednesday. The neighbouring Tiruvannamalai also holds the elections for 35 vacant posts. Areas such as Gudiyatham, Katpadi, K.V. Kuppam and Pernambut in Vellore; Arcot, Walajah and Thimiri in Ranipet and Tirupattur town, Nattrampalli and Jolarpet in Tirupattur district witnessed continuous rain on Tuesday. Despite the downpour, election officials managed to transport polling materials in 65 mini-lorries in these districts. As per norms, election materials should reach polling booths only a day before voting. “So far, no water stagnation has been reported in polling stations. However, if rain persists, then there may be water-logging in the second phase of polling (Saturday),” P. Bhaskaran Pandian, Collector, Ranipet, told The Hindu . Most of the major areas that go to the polls in the first phase — Arcot, Walajah, Jolarpet, Gudiyatham and Katpadi — in these three districts are located along the dry Palar river. Many villages are on the low lying areas of the river. Most of the polling stations in these villages and hamlets are decades-old government schools where the first phase of polling will be held. Rain data Arakkonam and Kalavai in Ranipet received the highest rainfall with 66 mm and 50.2 mm followed by Walajah (23 mm) and Arcot (20 mm). In Vellore, Katpadi received (13.4 mm) and VCS Mill (10.4 mm). Tirupattur town and Natrampalli recorded 10.20 mm and 7.20 mm respectively. As part of the poll preparation, face masks, hand sanitisers, thermal scanners, face shields, PPE kits have been despatched to the booths. CCTV cameras, ramps for persons with disabilities and drinking water have also been provided. Apart from over 15,000 government staff and teachers, more than 5,400 police personnel, including armed reserve, special police force and home guards, were roped in for election duties. All the three districts have announced holidays for schools on October 5, 6, 8 and 9 as teachers have to do election work. As many as 422 Tasmac outlets in these districts and Tiruvannamalai will remain shut from October 4 to 9 and also on October 12, the counting day. A total of 18,917 candidates are in the fray to contest for 7,251 posts in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-may-dampen-voter-turnout-in-vellore-and-nearby-districts/article36850681.ece
06 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district logs 18 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,468 with 18 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 48,120 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 225. The district's death toll is 1,123. In Ranipet district, 14 cases were reported positive and the overall tally stood at 43,130. In Tirupattur district, 15 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,083. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 21, taking the total number of cases to 54,470. Out of these, 53,481 have been discharged after treatment and the number of active cases stands at 324.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-18-new-cases/article36850687.ece
06 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Couple, their cow get electrocuted||A newly married couple and their cow were electrocuted after they stepped on an electric fence that was erected illegally by their neighbour in Uilipadur village near Katpadi in Vellore on Tuesday. The illegal electric fence was erected by their neighbour, a farmer, to prevent wild boars from damaging his crop. Police said N. Jayaprakash, 34, and his wife J. Ashwini, 25, farmers in Uilipadur village, went on a search for their three-year-old cow. They saw the cow lying on the paddy field of their neighbour. On spotting the animal, they immediately tried to enter the land by negotiating the electric fence and got electrocuted. The neighbour, S. Vijayakymar, and his workers were said to have erected the illegal electric fence to prevent wild boars from damaging the crops on the farmland. A case has been registered by the Thiruvalam police near Katpadi. “We are investigating the incident,” said Anandan, Inspector, Katpadi police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-step-on-electric-fence-get-electrocuted/article36850779.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiger hunt: CJ tells Forest Dept. not to go for the kill||He said the term ‘hunt’ included trapping, capturing and shooting only in unavoidable circumstances. It was brought to the notice of the court that tiger MDT 23 was very elusive and was not giving any chance to the tracking team to tranquillise it. It had also been cleverly avoiding bait cages for several days. The PCCF said 20 darters from Tamil Nadu and Kerala had been deployed with nine tranquillising guns. Qualified veterinarians, darting equipment, capturing equipment like net guns, pepper guns, drones and sniffer dogs had also been pressed into service for the critical operation. Listing the dates and events, the officer said MDT 23, of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, killed a woman in a tribal village in Singara on August 31, 2020. “Again, on July 19, 2021, a man was killed by this tiger in Mudukuzhi tribal village. The animal had killed about 20 [head of] cattle as of September 24,” the report said. Noting that the tiger was suffering from a small wound on its neck, which may have been caused during a fight with other tigers inside the forest, the PCCF said that therefore, MDT 23 had been moving along the edges of the forest in fear, and killing nearby cattle and herdsmen. On September 24, the tiger killed a person who was grazing cattle in Devan Estate under the Gudalur forest division. “The images captured by these cameras suggested that tiger MDT 23 was on the move in these locations... Since no other tiger image was recorded, it is concluded that the man may have been killed by the MDT 23 tiger. An intensive search was carried out with no results,” the report said. On September 25, the tracking team located the tiger inside a swamp in the estate. Veterinary teams were immediately deployed around the swamp. While the work was in progress, the Forest Department received information that the tiger came out of the swamp at 2 p.m. and killed a cow that was grazing nearby. The tracking team reached that spot with a cage and a carcass to trap the tiger. On September 26, the team inspected the cage and found that the animal had avoided it. Multiple operations were carried out after this to tranquillise the tiger, but the animal remained elusive. An expert team from Kerala and drones too were put to use. On October 1, the tiger was spotted at Masinagudi. Meanwhile, the officials received information that the tiger, while on its way out of the forest, had killed 51-year-old Basuvan when he was grazing cattle. It had dragged his body into a bush and had eaten some meat from the body. “Since then, measures, including the use of sniffer dogs and kumki elephants, have been taken to catch the tiger, but it remains elusive,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-hunt-cj-tells-forest-dept-not-to-go-for-the-kill/article36850479.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, five-day virtual workshop on ‘Technical Analysis for Security Market’, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article36850500.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ENGAGEMENTS||PERAMBALUR  Thanthai Hans Roever College: Inauguration of first year classes, Inigo Irudhayaraj and M.Prabharakan,MLAs, chief guests, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article36850462.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Orientation programme, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: World Space Week Celebrations, 9 a.m.  SNMV College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of MBA 27th Batch, 9.30 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Signing of MoU with L&T EduTech, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36850822.ece
06 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Free health camp||KLE Society’s Dr. Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi celebrated International Day of Older Persons on October 1. The aged were given free health check-up, ECG and blood sugar tests. Specialists advised them about steps to be taken for their well-being. The Adult Vaccine Advocacy Centre of the hospital gave Covishield vaccine doses to those who had crossed the due dates. Naina Joshi, who conducts courses at the Geriatric Clinic, spoke to the aged, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-health-camp/article36850517.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi is a puppet in RSS hands, says HDK||Former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a “puppet” in the hands of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) while Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was functioning under the directions of the RSS office here. This drew a sharp reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which said the comments were politically motivated and made with an eye on elections. Speaking to reporters, the former Chief Minister said BJP leaders, both at the centre and the state, did not enjoy freedom. He asked why the leaders go to the RSS office wherever they go. “Politically, the BJP is not independent and is controlled by the RSS. The State Government is completely RSS. Basavaraj Bommai is the second Chief Minister to have visited Keshava Krupa,” he said. Saying that the agenda of the RSS was not development, he said people were being led towards Manusmriti. “Governments should focus on the poor. The RSS ended the political career of L.K. Advani who had praised Jinnah. It has not given anything but Hindutva and communalism. It has also trained more than 4,000 bureaucrats in India who conform to its ideology,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. Questioning the need for an anti-conversion Bill, he said, “Instead, people should be empowered with education, employment, and financial strength. You should build trust in people. It is not possible to prevent conversion with the Bill. If education, health and housing are a given, there would be no conversion.” He also blamed the Congress for the current problem. BJP reacts Condemning Mr. Kumaraswamy’s attack, BJP state general secretary N. Ravikumar said the RSS neither interferes in the functioning of the government nor imposes its ideology. “It stands for a nation-first policy. There are many in politics and other sections of society who have been trained by the RSS. It runs thousands of schools in the country and assists during any natural calamity. What is wrong if someone is trained by the RSS?” he asked. Expressing surprise over the comments, he added, “Mr. Kumaraswamy has, in the past, appreciated the functioning of the RSS. He is making a political statement now that elections are closer. He is trying to criticise the RSS because the Congress has been calling the JD(S) the BJP B-team.” Later, taking to Twitter, Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “People should know the truth. I am not afraid of telling the truth. My statements were not in favour of or opposed to anyone. My intention is that the truth shouldbe discussed.”  Politically, the BJP is not independent and is controlled by the RSS. The State Government is completely RSS. Basavaraj Bommai is the second CM to have visited Keshava Krupa H.D. Kumaraswamy,JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-is-a-puppet-in-rss-hands-says-hdk/article36850636.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to assess loss caused by flooding||The heavy rains that lashed the city on Sunday evening and wee hours of Monday inundated several homes, particularly those in Rajarajeshwarinagar and West zones. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has taken up the exercise to assess the damage caused by the flooding, said Gaurav Gupta, civic chief. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, the chief commissioner said revenue officials had been directed to visit all the affected houses to assess the extent of damage incurred. The compensation to be given will be decided based on the Disaster Management guidelines issued by the State Government, he said. He also said that priority, however, was to ensure that normalcy was restored by draining out water and clearing silt from roads and inundated houses. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he said, had issued express directions in this regard, and that the same were being followed by zonal civic officials, including joint commissioners and engineers.  Mr. Gupta attributed the flooding to lack of retaining walls along drains, especially in outer areas. “When it rains heavily, the water overflows and floods low-lying areas nearby. Over the past few years, of 750 km of raja kaluves, retaining walls have been strengthened and constructed in over half. We have now drawn up an action plan to take up the work in the remaining drains. The work will be taken up based on availability of funds,” he stated. Control rooms As part of rain preparedness activities, this year too, temporary control rooms have been established at the 63 sub-divisions. As a permanent solution to flooding, retaining walls for drains are being strengthened and constructed wher missing. Temporary solutions, such as keeping water pumps handy in case of any overflow or flooding, are also taken up every year. “Due to various measures taken up by the civic body, the number of areas prone to flooding during the monsoon months has been decreasing year on year,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-assess-loss-caused-by-flooding/article36850431.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges asked to advance reopening of UG odd semesters to October 12||City-based degree colleges have been asked to advance the date for commencement of classes from October 21 to October 12. However, a week before the commencement of classes, many colleges are yet to get the syllabus that has been chalked out as per the National Education Policy (NEP). On Tuesday, Bengaluru City University sent a circular to all its affiliated colleges that UG classes for the first, third and fifth semesters should commence on October 12. While third and fifth semester students will follow the old syllabus, the syllabus for the 1st semester students will be as per NEP. The Board of Studies of the respective faculties is in the process of finalising the syllabus. But lecturers are worried that they do not have adequate time to acquaint themselves with the new syllabus. A senior official of a government degree college in the city said that the lecturers were anxious about how to teach as per the new syllabus. “What is making matters worse is that they have not even got the copy of the syllabus before the commencement of classes,” the official said. A student who was enrolled in a private degree college for the Bachelors in Arts programme said, “We are glad that the NEP is bringing about reforms in the education sector and is making it more student-friendly. However, we wanted the lecturers to be trained and familiarised with the syllabus before our classes. There is already a significant delay in the academic year and we do not want to have classes where teachers are not aware of the changes.” A lecturer of a popular college said that a little bit of planning, and conducting workshops before classes began would have helped them gain confidence in conducting classes. Lingaraja Gandhi, Vice-Chancellor, Bengaluru City University, said the varsity would publish the syllabus shortly on their website. “We also plan to have a one-week induction programme for lecturers from October 13 and all of them will be trained on how to teach as per the new syllabus, keeping in mind the principles of NEP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-asked-to-advance-reopening-of-ug-odd-semesters-to-october-12/article36850783.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers take to the streets demanding revised fair and remunerative price||Traffic on the busy Seshadri Road in Bengaluru was disrupted for some time when thousands of members of the State Sugarcane Growers’ Association marched from the Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna station towards the Vidhana Soudha demanding revised fair and remunerative price (FRP). The busy Anand Rao Circle too was blocked by the arrival of farmers shouting slogans against the government and waving green towels. The police struggled to contain the protesters and diverted them to Freedom Park. The police also blocked traffic from Anand Rao Circle to K.R. Circle during the protest and diverted motorists to adjacent roads. Some motorists were caught off-guard and were stranded till the protesters passed the area. The protesters also condemned the death of farmers who were run over by a vehicle in the convoy of Union Minister Ajay Mishra at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, and demanded strict action against the culprits. State Sugarcane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar, who led the protest, demanded revision of the FRP since the cost of sugarcane production has increased two-fold. He said that the fair and remunerative prices for sugarcane should be increased to Rs. 3,500 a tonne to match the increase in cultivation cost. The other demands of the association included sharing the additional profits earned by the sugar mills through production of ethanol and including sugarcane crop under crop insurance scheme. Expressing concern over the inordinate delay by sugar mills in paying the arrears of farmers towards supply of sugarcane, he suggested that an interest of 15% should be charged for the delayed payments. Later, the farmers’ leaders also submitted a memorandum in this regard to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-take-to-the-streets-demanding-revised-fair-and-remunerative-price/article36850527.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||I’m not interested in national politics, says Siddaramaiah||Amid speculation that he would be accommodated in the Congress central unit for giving support to former All Indian Congress Committee president Rahul Gandhi, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said he was “not interested in national politics” and would confine himself to Karnataka politics. He met AICC interim president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday and his suggestions were sought on restructuring of the party’s organisation at the central level following criticism from the G-23 group on the functioning of the Congress. Sources in the party said Ms. Gandhi has been calling top party leaders from all states and seeking suggestions on strengthening the party. Mr. Siddaramaiah told reporters in Delhi that he would concentrate on state politics and that he had held discussions with Ms. Gandhi on the byelections to two Assembly seats in Karnataka and on the organisation of the party at the central level. This is not first time there have been rumours about Mr. Siddaramaiah’s role in national politics being discussed in the Congress. A few days ago, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Assembly there were many in Karnataka Congress who wanted to send Mr. Siddaramaiah to Delhi to play an active role in national politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/im-not-interested-in-national-politics-says-siddaramaiah/article36850533.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition to Constitution Club proposed at Balabrooie||The State Government’s decision to have a Constitution Club at Balabrooie Guest House on Palace Road, close to the Vidhana Soudha, has irked activists and heritage conservationists in the city. On Monday, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri made the announcement, rekindling opposition to it. This is not the first time that the government has proposed setting up a Constitution Club, on the lines of Delhi’s Constitution Club, for legislators. According to a spokesperson of Heritage Beku, a citizens’ group that has been demanding conservation of all heritage buildings and structures in the city, Balabrooie is one of the most important heritage buildings in the city. “It has been a silent witness to good and old times… it was the epicentre during the plague pandemic and more recently after the outbreak of COVID-19 when the war room was established there,” the spokesperson said, underscoring the need to conserve the building. Heritage Beku has written to the State Government expressing its “dismay and shock” at the sudden revival of the proposal. In the letter, dated September 22, it has noted that initially the club was proposed near Cauvery on Kumara Krupa Road. The government has been urged to safeguard the city’s heritage and reconsider the decision to establish the club at Balabrooie. Meera Iyer, from INTACH, pointed out that the heritage building was constructed in the late 1850s by John Garett, who came to the city in 1839 as a Wesleyan missionary. He also started the Central High School, which later became Central College. Ms. Iyer told The Hindu it was unclear what was being proposed. The Speaker has claimed that the building won’t be touched. “It seems a little improbable that the club will be established without modifying the building and gardens. To provide facilities for the club, some inharmonious changes would be required,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-to-constitution-club-proposed-at-balabrooie/article36850634.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reinstate senior citizens’ council’||As senior citizens continue to face a plethora of problems induced by the pandemic, NGOs have urged the State Government to step in. Among their demands are reinstating the State Council for Senior Citizens and addressing insurance coverage for elders. HelpAge India, which has been working in the field, has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asking for the reinstatement of the council. “The State Council was headed by the Minister for Women and Child Development, Director - Department of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Empowerment and also involved representatives from NGOs and senior citizens,” the memorandum said, adding that meetings were conducted to review of welfare schemes, maintenance and welfare of parents and senior citizens and to ensure improving the delivery services, and appropriate recommendations for the welfare programmes for senior citizens were made to the government. “It is regrettable that the State Council has not been functioning since the last few years. It was formed in 2007, but the implementation has not been there. We want it reinstated so that the committee can monitor schemes and recommend budget needs according to the need of the elderly,” said Prakashan M., State in-charge, HelpAge India. With senior citizens being among the vulnerable groups as far as COVID 19 is concerned, they have also asked for extension of health insurance. At present, it is available for seniors up to the age of 65 with a meagre extension, and this applies only to diseases which the insured person acquires after the date of the policy. “This facility does not apply to old diseases. However, most elderly need insurance facility after the age of 65 to be extended up to 85 years,” the NGO has said. They have also asked for a separate department for senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reinstate-senior-citizens-council/article36850525.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Human trafficking case: NIA files chargesheet against six persons||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Tuesday filed a chargesheet before the NIA Special Court, Bengaluru, against six accused persons in connection with a human trafficking case linked to Sri Lanka. The accused Dhinakaran Ayya, Kasi Viswanathan, Rasool, Saddam Hussain, Abdul Muheetu and Socrates, all residents of Tamil Nadu, were charged under sections 343, 344, 370(3) and 120B of the IPC for their alleged involvement in the organised international trafficking racket across India-Sri Lanka maritime boundary by luring Sri Lankan nationals on the pretext of emigration to Canada and confining them in different places in India. The case was originally registered at Mangaluru South Police Stationagainst 25 Sri Lankans, based on the information that the Sri Lankans were staying in a lodge without valid documents. During the subsequent raids, 13 more Sri Lankans were apprehended. Investigations established that the 38 Sri Lankans were trafficked to India in four batches from February to April 2021. As part of the larger conspiracy with Sri Lankan suspects, the accused trafficked and confined the victims at various places in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka without any contact with their family members so as to misguide the latter that they were on a ship going to Canada, the NIA said. All the trafficked 38 Sri Lankans were promised that they would be sent to Canada and were charged between 3.5 and 10 lakh Sri Lankan rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/human-trafficking-case-nia-files-chargesheet-against-six-persons/article36850786.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive against pushcart vendors using loudspeakers||The East Division police on Tuesday conducted a special drive and seized as many as 10 loudspeakers used by pushcart vendors causing noise pollution in residential areas, especially during morning hours. Residents complained to the city police commissioner during a public grievance meeting that pushcart vendors were using loudspeakers creating noise pollution and disturbing children attending online classes . They are also posing a threat to senior citizens and bedridden people with the shrill noises and announcements aimed at selling their wares, they had said. On Tuesday morning, as part of the drive, the police intercepted many such vendors and confiscated their megaphones. The phones were later returned after creating awareness about the effects of noise pollution and they were warned that legal action would be taken if they continued to use megaphones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-against-pushcart-vendors-using-loudspeakers/article36850432.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assessment pattern tweaked for first-year students||The Karnataka State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has tweaked the assessment pattern for this academic year. The change in assessment will be applicable to all the first semester students as per the National Education Policy (NEP) which will be implemented for the first time this year. The decision was taken on Monday after a meeting with all the Vice Chancellors of various universities. Under the new assessment pattern, students in the theory component will be graded 40% based on their internal assessment, while the remaining 60% will be for the term end examination. In the practical section, 50% weightage will be given for term-end exams and the remaining for internal assessment. Formative assessment B. Thimme Gowda, Vice-Chairman of the council, said the decision was taken as the NEP encourages formative assessment. “The policy says that we should move away from testing the memory of the student and instead test if students have understood the subject,” he said. He added it would be applicable to all colleges, including autonomous one. Hitherto, under the theory component - 70% was for the term end exam, while the remaining was for the internal assessment. The weightage for the practical component varied from subject to subject. SThe decision has come as a shock to many lecturers and college managements who have already framed the syllabus and the evaluation methods. “It is unfortunate that the council has taken a decision so late. We will now have to tweak all the assessments we have planned,” said a principal of a city-based degree college. However, the Vice Chancellors of a university said that they agreed to make the change in the interest of students. “We want students to prepare for the term-end exam. The new assessment pattern would ensure that the students’ learning is monitored throughout the academic year,” he said. P. Pradeep, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education, also said that the shift was intended to give more emphasis to formative assessment in line with the NEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assessment-pattern-tweaked-for-first-year-students/article36850433.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Principal Secretary has to come to court if govt. cannot give MRI machine to DIMHANS: High Court||Terming as unfortunate the government inaction to provide an MRI machine and appoint a full-time director for Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (DIMHANS) for the last 18 months, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, to personally appear before it on November 18. A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed in 1996 by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority through which the court is monitoring facilities being provided to treat mentally ill persons across the State. The Bench made it clear that the appearance of the Principal Secretary will not become necessary if the government provides the MRI machine and appoints a full time director for DIMHANS by then. The court had on March 5, 2020 set a deadline of six weeks for the government to procure the MRI machine besides directing it to appoint a full time director for DIMHANS within three months. As the government on Tuesday sought more time to provide the MRI machine stating that it could not provide adequate funds to DIMHANS to procure the machine in view of financial crunch caused due to COVID-19, the Bench said that it was unfortunate that the government has neither provided MRI machine nor appointed a full-time director to DIMHANS, which is catering to the needs of the people of entire North Karnataka region while providing mental health services. The Bench emphasised that providing proper infrastructure to DIMHANS is essential when the institute is a State-run hospital serving the poor of the region who cannot go to private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/principal-secretary-has-to-come-to-court-if-govt-cannot-give-mri-machine-to-dimhans-high-court/article36850529.ece
06 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai launches ‘CM Dashboard’ initiative||In line with the Prime Minister’s Office, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has launched the ‘CM Dashboard’, which will allow him to review the progress of various departments digitally. This dashboard will provide up-to-date information on various projects to the Chief Minister. Speaking after the launch, Mr. Bommai directed officials to record accurate information on the dashboard daily. On Tuesday, he reviewed the BBMP, Revenue, Energy, Education, Housing, Rural Development, and other departments. Nodal officers and the heads of departments should take keen interest in the dashboard, he said. “Officers should pay equal importance to planning as well as implementation. Senior officials must ensure that the officials at the grass roots deliver the facility to the last man. Effective implementation will bring people closer to the system and they feel that someone is there for them. We need to strive to achieve this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-launches-cm-dashboard-initiative/article36850635.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Missing labourer reunited with family||A construction worker from Uttar Pradesh, who came to the city to work with his brothers and went missing for a year, was rehabilitated by a city-based deaddiction centre and reunited with his family on Monday. Sunil Kumar, 28, a resident of a village near Ghazipur, had come here to work as a construction labourer but drug addiction led him to become mentally disturbed. He went missing a year ago, before he surfaced in a restricted area at KIA. CISF officials caught Sunil in a restricted area on September 18 and after a thorough inquiry, handed him over to the jurisdictional airport police. The next day, the police handed him over to Lakshmi Narayana from Sumana Ellen Trust, a rehabilitation centre on Old Madras Road. Lakshmi Narayana found that his village name was Chak Mirpur and got in touch with Ghazipur inspector Niraj Yadav who connected him with the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/missing-labourer-reunited-with-family/article36850785.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||16 Cabinet committees established||The State Government on Tuesday set up 16 Cabinet sub-committees on various subjects. They were established following the dissolution of the committees formed during the government led by B.S. Yediyurappa. A State Cabinet sub-committee has been formed to review and monitor the progress of implementation of Krishna, Mahadayi, and other irrigation projects/court/tribunal verdicts and for fixing compensation for acquisition of land for the Upper Krishna Project III. The committee is headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Chief Minister is also heading a committee to review the progress of the projects in the Cauvery basin and on attracting investments for the global investors’ meet. Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Govind M. Karjol is heading a committee on the formulation of water policy, while Public Works Minister C.C. Patil is heading a committee on NICE land acquisition and disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/16-cabinet-committees-established/article36850637.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 523 new cases||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 523 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,78,808. Bengaluru Urban reported 201 and four deaths. With 14 deaths, the toll rose to 37,845. As many as 575 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,29,008. The State now has 11,926 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.59%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.67%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-523-new-cases/article36850530.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. convocation||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) will host this year’s convocation virtually on Wednesday at 3.30 p.m. to confer degrees upon students who graduated in 2020 and 2021. According to a release from IISc., Uday Kotak, MD and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, will be the chief guest at the event. During the online ceremony, 1,832 Ph.D and Masters students and 204 undergraduate students will receive their degrees. The programme will also see medals being conferred upon 110 students for their academic excellence, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-convocation/article36850632.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||For Durga Puja||Around 80 groups have sought permission from the BBMP to install idols for Durga Puja. Civic chief Gaurav Gupta said the government is likely to issue guidelines for the same The organisers will have to approach the local police for permission, while local civic officials will ensure guidelines are adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-durga-puja/article36850784.ece
06 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Killing of farmers condemned||Chikkamgaluru district unit of the Congress, on Tuesday, staged a protest in Chikkamgaluru town condemning the killing of farmers, allegedly after a car in Union Minister Ajay Mishra ’s convoy ran over them at Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh. Under the leadership of District Congress Committee president K.P. Anshumanth, the party workers gathered at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. They said the party would condemn the way the Centre and BJP government at Uttar Pradesh had been treating farmers on the protest against farm laws. “The Union Minister should be sacked from the Cabinet and the President should dismiss the Uttar Pradesh government”, they demanded. The protesters also condemned the arrest of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to meet the family members of the victims. They submitted a memorandum addressed to the President, to the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/killing-of-farmers-condemned/article36850624.ece
06 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Focus on technical training in high schools: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that steps will be taken on priority basis to provide technical education to children in high schools so that they acquire technical skills to compete in the global level. He was inaugurating a programme, “Innovation and Impact @Hubballi”, organised as part of Beyond Bengaluru initiative organised by the Department of Information Technology and Bio Technology in Hubballi through videoconference from Bengaluru on Tuesday. The Chief Minister said that way back in the 1960s a technical school was set up in Hubballi for training high school students, which, however, failed to fulfil its objective and ended up becoming another normal high school. “There is a need to upgrade such technical schools. As children have more grasping power, they can be given technical training,” he said. Emphasising the need for research and innovations, Mr. Bommai said that the use of advanced technology should not be just limited to research laboratories but should be put to use in daily life. He said that the curriculum for ITI and polytechnic institutions has already been changed and over 150 ITIs have been upgraded with the objective of creating skilled human resources. “The State is in a leading position when it comes to development of start-ups. There is a need to take IT, BT and other industries beyond Bengaluru to cities such as Kalaburagi, Davangere, Hubballi-Dharwad. Karnataka Digital Economy Mission needs to function in a time-bound manner and today’s Beyond Bengaluru programme will act as a catalyst for this,” he said. Minister for Higher Education, IT and BT C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that the State government is ready to extend financial assistance and necessary support for facilitating investments in various districts apart from Bengaluru. “In the initial stages of industry establishment, financial assistance of up to 25% for land purchase and 45% assistance for industry establishment are being given by the government. This apart, both the Union and State governments are extending 5% incentives, exemption in stamp duty, power at concessional rates and even rent for buildings for some industries. These incentives will not be there for industries to be established in Bengaluru,” he said. Centre of Excellence The Minister said that shortly a Centre of Excellence related to Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Engineering will be set up in Hubballi. And, 50 acres of land will be provided for a Software Park, he said. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that as per the objective of the National Education Policy, coding will be introduced in the high school curriculum from the next academic year. He said that the curriculum for engineering colleges in the State is of high standard than the IITs. “The internship period for engineering students has been increased to 30 weeks for enabling more technical training. Steps have also been taken for internships in foreign countries. A Future Digital Jobs@ Hubballi Cell has also been set up,” he said. Member of Legislative Assembly Arvind Bellad emphasised the need for setting up electronic and hardware manufacturing units in Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi to make them a manufacturing hub for electronic products. Of the 10 hardware companies that were looking for investments in the country, at least two should be invited to Hubballi-Dharwad, he said. MoUs On the occasion, Karnataka Digital Economy Mission signed MoUs with various private companies of North Karnataka for extending its activities in the region. Chairman of Vission Group on Entrepreneurship Prashanth Prakash, president of Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) B.V. Naik, Additional Chief Secretary of IT, BT E.V. Ramana Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University Ashok Shettar, Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.B. Gudasi, Director of IIT Dharwad Kavi Mahesh and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-technical-training-in-high-schools-cm/article36850524.ece
06 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnatak University convocation on Friday||Karnatak University, Dharwad, will hold its 70th and 71st annual convocation ceremonies on Friday and Saturday. The convocation functions will be both online and offline. Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.B. Gudasi told presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday that Governor and Chancellor Thawar Chand Gehlot will preside over the virtual convocation at 8.30 a.m. on Friday. The former chairman of ISRO A.S. Kiran Kumar will deliver the convocation address and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan will be present, he said. Prof. Gudasi said that as a section of students has demanded offline convocation, the university has decided to hold the function to present gold medals, rank certificates and prizes in an offline programme. He said that the offline function will be held on Friday at 4 p.m. at the Golden Jubilee Hall where doctoral degrees will be awarded. And, at 10.30 a.m. on Saturday, gold medals will be presented to meritorious students of different streams. Prof. Gudasi clarified that owing to COVID-19 restrictions, only candidates who will receive their doctoral degrees, prizes and gold medals will be permitted to enter the venue of the convocation on production of identity cards. He said that a total of 4,165 candidates will be conferred various degrees during the 70th convocation, while 4,568 candidates will receive degrees during the 71st convocation. They cleared examinations in 2019 and 2020, respectively, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatak-university-convocation-on-friday/article36850522.ece
06 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Develop specific models for NEP’||Stressing on focus on how to implement the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020), M.K. Sridhar, a member of the University Grants Commission, said that developing models for implementation of specific aspects in the policy rather than repeatedly discussing what is there in the policy is the need of the hour. “Much is talked about what is there in NEP-2020. The question, however, is how we implement it. We need not discuss what has to happen in the country or a State or in other universities. But, we need to focus on what has to happen in our institutions as per policy. It means that we, as an institution, need to devise models for implementation of specific aspects in NEP-2020 which could be adopted by other institutions. General talk on implementation without the development of specific models wouldn’t be of much use,” Prof. Sridhar, who was also a member of the NEP-2020 Drafting Committee, said. He was remotely delivering a keynote address at the inaugural session of the two-day workshop on the implementation of NEP-2020 at the Central University of Karnataka near here on Tuesday. The event was jointly organised by the Centre for Educational and Social Studies, Bengaluru, and the Central University. Admitting that it was impossible to completely implement NEP-2020 considering the comprehensiveness of the provisions, Prof. Sridhar, however, suggested that every institution can focus on a few specific provisions and develop its own models for implementation. “If Central University focuses on a provision for multidisciplinary education and develops a model for implementation, it could be adopted by other institutions in the country. There could be a model on the process for changing the mindset of management and reorient them. There could also be a model on how to overcome the challenges that the stakeholders tend to face in the process of implementation. Models would not necessarily be only on how to implement a specific aspect of the policy but they could also be how not to implement it,” Prof. Sridhar said. Pointing to the close proximity of Central Universities to the Union government, Mr. Sridhar said that the Central institutions had an advantage of directly reaching out to the policymakers and see that the changes they wanted in the education system are brought in. “Moreover, the Central Universities are well resourced in terms of human resources and funds. These factors have put the Central Universities in a better place to take the lead in the implementation of NEP-2020 and be the role models for other institutions,” he said. Central University Vice-Chancellor Battu Satyanarayana, Registrar Basavaraj Donur, scholars Shivaprasad, Gowrish and M.V. Alagawadi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/develop-specific-models-for-nep/article36850519.ece
06 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two struck dead by lightning||Two farm workers died and two suffered severe burns when lightning struck them in Balawadagi village of Kalaburagi district. The deceased were identified as Rajahmed (42) and Jabbar (55), both residents of Balawadagi village in Chittapur taluk. The injured were shifted to the Government Hospital in Kalaburagi. A case has been registered in the Wadi Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-struck-dead-by-lightning/article36850520.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four accused arrested in robbery case||The police arrested four persons, including an employee of a petrol bunk who is said to have hatched a conspiracy, on the charge of robbing a manager of the petrol bunk of Rs. 4.2 lakh in cash. The names of the arrested persons were given as Shyam Shankar, employee of Ashirwad Petrol Bunk, Abhishek, Karthik and Sagar. All are aged between 26 and 30. While Abhishek is a resident of Kudupu, the others are from Shakti Nagar. On September 28, Bhojappa, manager of Ashirwad Petrol Bunk, was attacked near Chilimbi Arch by two men when he was on his two-wheeler on his way to deposit the cash at a branch of Saraswat Bank. The incident occurred at around 1 p.m. A case was registered with the Urwa Police and a special team was formed to trace the accused. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that Shankar conspired with the other three accused persons to carry out the robbery. Having failed in their attempt on September 26, the accused carried out the robbery two days later. After the crime, the accused left here for Mumbai where they spent the money buying gold, clothes and for other purposes. The police recovered from the accused Rs. 60,000 in cash, two two-wheelers and a mobile phone. Mr. Kumar said that Shankar is an accused in a case of rioting and assault reported in 2018. Abhishek is an accused in seven criminal cases, which includes murder, extortion and two attempt to murder. Karthik is an accused in six criminal cases, including rioting, extortion and attempt to murder. The police have launched a search for others said to be involved in the case and also, extending support to those arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) B.P. Dinesh Kumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-accused-arrested-in-robbery-case/article36850897.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Simple Navaratri at Mangaladevi||The 10-day-long Navaratri festival at the Mangaladevi temple will be celebrated in a simple way this year too, without cultural programmes and food distribution. Managing trustee of the temple P. Ramanand Hegde told reporters here on Tuesday that as per COVID-19 norms laid down by the district administration, they are not holding any cultural programme and food distribution during the festival which commences on October 7 and goes on till October 16. There will be no “Sante Elam” too. During the Rathotsava and Avabruta Mangalasnana, there will acceptance of aratis and fruits. Mr. Hegde said that all other rituals will be held in the temple with strict compliance to norms. Traditional rituals such as Vidyarambha, under which children are initiated into learning, and “Tene” offering by some families, will be carried out on October 15 [Vijayadasami]. The Rathotsava on October 15 and Avabruta Mangalasnana the next day will see the participation of a few people. On all the 10 days, there will be bhajans by small groups of singers. He and other temple trustees thanked Mangaluru Smart City Limited for the timely completion of road widening work between the temple and the First Railway Bridge. They also thanked the Mangaluru City Corporation for taking up lighting work in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-navaratri-at-mangaladevi/article36850896.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar appears before Sullia court||State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday appeared before a local court in Sullia and gave evidence in a case booked against a telephone caller who is said to have abused him over phone when he was Energy Minister. Mr. Shivakumar appeared before the Senior Civil Judge and JMFC Court after it issued an order on September 29 for initiation of proclamation proceedings after police failed to serve a non-bailable warrant (NBW) on five earlier occasions. After Mr. Shivakumar appeared before the court and adduced evidence in the case on Tuesday, on an application by prosecutor Janardhan, the court recalled the NBW issued against him. Meanwhile, it issued NBW against Chandrashekar, investigation officer in the case, and posted the case to November 6. As per the case, a Bharatiya Janata Party activist Sai Giridhar Rai had called Mr. Shivakumar (the then Energy Minister) on the latter's mobile phone on February 28, 2016 and abused him for frequent power outage. He is said to have issued death threats. Mr. Shivakumar immediately called the then MESCOM Managing Director Chikkanjappa to file a compliant. As the then Assistant Executive Engineer Harish K. Naika in Sullia was proceeding to file a complaint, Mr. Rai reportedly came to his office and abused him too. After Mr. Naika’s complaint, the police went to Mr. Rai's house in the early hours of the next day and arrested him. On Tuesday, Mr. Shivakumar arrived at the international airport here by flight and immediately proceeded to Kukke Subrahmanya temple. After his visit, Mr. Shivakumar went to court and gave his evidence. He then visited the local Advocates Association where he was felicitated. Mr. Shivakumar also visited the Sullia taluk Congress office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumar-appears-before-sullia-court/article36850900.ece
06 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Students told to contribute to nation’s development||Mangalore University Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma on Tuesday exhorted students to contribute to nation building by engaging in various activities. He was speaking at the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme organised by The Hindu in association with Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Ltd., at SDM College of Business Management. Prof. Dharma said every student have the responsibility towards the country and execute the same in a planned manner. The task of nation building is not easy, the Registrar said, urging students to understand the freedom struggle first. Then only they can contribute to the nation, he asserted. History of hatred and of pain have to be forgotten, he said. The younger generation should carry forward the legacy of the country, he said. Prof. Dharma praised The Hindu for the freedom struggle while appreciating the contribution MCF in the development of agricultural sector. Deputy Manager in research and development with Adventz Group T.S. Adarsha explained industry and company profile about MCf and explained experiments done to improve the agriculture scenario. MCF Director Prabhakar Rao and principal Aruna P. Kamath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-told-to-contribute-to-nations-development/article36850899.ece
06 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book talk||The Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Science, MAHE, has organised a book talk on scholar K.P. Rao’s new novel, “Varnaka”, at 4.45 p.m. on Wednesday in Manipal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-talk/article36850891.ece
06 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA orders inquiry into document forgery||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has unravelled a fraud entailing forging documents to create additional sites and distributing it to the public. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev told mediapersons here on Tuesday that a private developer had tampered with the original plan sanctioned by the authority and created additional sites on the land meant for open space and parks. Though the original plan had approved the creation of 62 sites, the developer had created additional six sites and sold it to the public. The original plan was sanctioned in 2008, the forgery and tampering of the records took place in 2020 and was unearthed by the officials this week, said Mr. Rajeev. The private locality is on Survey Number 1 at Dattagalli and the MUDA will conduct an inquiry as to how the original master plan was tampered and forged to create new sites. “The tampering has been done in a manner making it difficult to ascertain the forgery and the inquiry will help find out if there were MUDA officials involved in the racket as the Khatha for the properties have also been created and distributed’’, said Mr. Rajeev. He also appealed to the public to check the authenticity of the documents and records related to the sites and layouts with the MUDA and double-check if the MUDA-approved plans match that being projected by the developers. Mr. Rajeev said the sub-registrar’s office has been notified not to register any site from the said layout till there was clarity on the extent of the fraud. Random checks The MUDA will conduct random checks of the various plans approved by it to ascertain if what was unearthed this week was just the tip of the iceberg. Meanwhile, the dedicated squad proposed by the MUDA to investigate and crack down on such frauds is yet to be approved by the government. The MUDA Chairman said though he had discussed the issue with the Minister concerned, it was pointed out that such a squad has been constituted only within the BDA in Bengaluru. “But the issue will be raised with the Government again to ensure that the squad was constituted at the earliest given the pace of development of Mysuru’’, Mr. Rajeev added. Demand survey The MUDA’s proposed group housing scheme has received good response from the public as evident in the ongoing demand survey being conducted by the authority. More than 20,000 aspirants have evinced interest in the scheme which will be similar to the apartments constructed by the BDA in Bengaluru. The MUDA proposes to construct 1,960 flats at a cost of Rs. 452.60 crore to venture into the affordable housing segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-orders-inquiry-into-document-forgery/article36850629.ece
06 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pramoda Devi invited for Dasara; curbs to be in place on gatherings||The district administration on Tuesday officially extended an invite to Pramoda Devi Wadiyar of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family to the Dasara festivities or the Nada Habba that begins from October 7. A delegation led by Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar visited the palace and felicitated her before seeking her support and cooperation in organising the festivities. Ms. Wadiyar agreed to extend support and wished the organising committee all success. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Somashekar said 400 people had been permitted to attend the inaugural event to be held atop Chamundi Hills here on October 7. The curbs on the gathering were in view of the pandemic situation, he said, adding that there won’t be any bar on the entry of public to the temple during the inaugural function. Only 500 will be allowed to witness the Jamboo Savari on the palace premises. A decision will be taken on whom to be given entry to the event. Pratap Simha, MP, Mysuru Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, Deputy Commissioner and Dasara Special Officer Bagadi Gautham and others were present. Tushar Girinath, Principal Secretary and Member Secretary, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, said in an order issued on October 4 that only 100 people were permitted to attend the inaugural event atop Chamundi Hills on Thursday. However, the earlier order had been modified, increasing the number to 400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pramoda-devi-invited-for-dasara-curbs-to-be-in-place-on-gatherings/article36850627.ece
06 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ban on entry to Chamundi Hills flayed||The district administration’s decision to ban entry to Chamundi Hills with effect from October 5 to October 7 noon, has come under flak from a section of the devout. The Deputy Commissioner ordered that Chamundi Hills be out of bounds for devotees and the general public with effect from 4 a.m. on Tuesday till the completion of the Dasara inauguration on Thursday. This has been justified on the grounds of providing security to the VVIPs including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other dignitaries who will be present for the inauguration. The authorities said that opening up the shrine for the general public will not only impede the preparations for the Dasara inauguration but will also compromise the restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19. However, some of the devotees from Mysuru pointed out that Dasara is being celebrated in Mysuru since centuries and the Nada Habba inauguration atop the Chamundi Hills was also not something new. “Hence the justification provided by the authorities does not hold much water’’, said a section of long-time residents of the city. It is also customary among many residents to visit the shrine atop the Chamundi Hills, bring the prasada of Goddess Chamundeshwari home and then prepare to display the dolls for Gombe Hamba. But this order restricting the entry of devotees is an impediment to the age-old tradition, said a senior social worker who wished to remain anonymous. The ban order also restricts the devotees from taking the steps up to the shrine and hosting of mass feeding at the Dasoha Bhavan. However, the restrictions do not apply to the people residing atop the Chamundi Hills, priests and other functionaries associated with the temple and Dasara preparations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-on-entry-to-chamundi-hills-flayed/article36850625.ece
06 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity doctor feted for combating COVID-19||M.S. Basavaraj, Chief Medical Officer, Health Centre, University of Mysore, on Tuesday urged the people to get vaccinated and help others get immunized at the earliest as vaccines are the only effective means for combating COVID-19. Speaking after being felicitated by the Vishwamanava University Employees’ Vedike for being in the frontline in the fight against the pandemic in the first and second waves, at the health centre here, he narrated how the health centre helped patients and advised the people not to be indifferent to the pandemic despite being vaccinated. Barring a few days when he was infected by COVID-19, the health centre worked almost 24 x 7 to serve the needy, Dr. Basavaraj said, while expressing his wish of setting up a diagnostic centre at the health centre for RT-PCR tests. He thanked the University officials for supporting the vaccination drives carried out for the safety of teaching and non-teaching staff and students of the university. The health centre vaccinated more than 20,000 people, including the general public, when COVID-19 had reached its peak here. As many as 1,500 were vaccinated on a single day at Senate Bhavan, said University Registrar Shivappa. He complimented Dr. Basavaraj for guiding innumerable persons in managing the health crisis. Journalist and writer Amshi Prasanna Kumar applauded Dr. Basavaraj’s contributions during COVID-19. Maharaja’s College Principal Anita Braggs; University Evening College Principal Devaraje Gowda; and Congress leader Harish Gowda spoke. Retired Professor Shivarajappa; Siddaraju, Professor; and Vasu of Vishwamanava Mysore University Employees’ Association were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-doctor-feted-for-combating-covid-19/article36850628.ece
06 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rail Museum to be illuminated||The Mysuru Rail Museum will be illuminated daily from October 7 to 15 to mark Dasara. A release said in view of demand from the public, the museum working hours will also be extended till 8 p.m. along with illumination during the period. All the outdoor exhibits such as vintage steam locomotives, coaches, inspection carriages, goods wagons, crane, and toy train will be illuminated to provide a breathtaking experience for the visitors. The authorities have also said that there will be no weekly holiday for the museum on October 12 so as to benefit the public. The museum authorities said the visitors will not be permitted to carry any handbags/backpacks into the premises and even consumption of food/beverages brought from outside is strictly prohibited. Still photography with SLR/DSLR will be permitted on payment of the prescribed charges at the reception counter. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, has urged the visitors to strictly follow all the Covid-related protocols. The railways reserves the right to restrict admission of visitors at any time to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-museum-to-be-illuminated/article36850630.ece
06 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Woman who was set on fire dies||Palamma (23), who was admitted on Sunday night with burns to the District Hospital in Kalaburagi, died on Tuesday. She was set on fire by Gangappa Basappa Allalli (25) after she obstructed to his sexual advances. She was the wife of Mareppa. According to the police, Gangappa Allalli tried to rape her but when she resisted, he doused her with petrol and set her on fire. The woman’s neighbours who heard her screaming rushed to the spot and shifted her to the taluk hospital in Surpur. The doctors who gave her treatment there referred the woman to Kalaburagi for further treatment. In protest against the brutal act of Gangappa Allalli, the woman’s relatives and residents of Chowdeshwarihalli staged a protest with the body at Gandhi Chowk in Surpur and demanded capital punishment for the accused. They took the body to the village only after the police pacified them. Meanwhile, the accused has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-who-was-set-on-fire-dies/article36850521.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rules on police promotion revised||Mr. Madhuswamy said the monthly pension for persons aged above 65 under the Sandhya Suraksha scheme would be increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,200. This would benefit 36 lakh people and result in an additional burden of Rs. 207 crore to the State exchequer. The Cabinet gave administrative approval for the implementation of ultra high frequency (UHF) radio communication works of Rs. 14.65 crore under the police modernisation scheme in Bengaluru city. Under the scheme, the government would share the cost of Rs. 9 crore and the rest would be shared by the Centre (Rs. 5.65 crore). Administrative approval was given for release of Rs. 300 crore in 2021-22 for implementation of ‘Khar land project’ which stops, with the help of flap gates, the back surge of salt water due to high tides and floods in rivers in Uttara Kannada district. A sum of Rs. 1,500 crore has been set aside for the project in the Minor Irrigation Department. The project would prevent mixing up of river and sea water and it would help fishing and agricultural activities, the Minister said. Wind power It was decided to allocate 32 acres of land at Saundatti village in Saundatti taluk of Belagavi district for generation of wind power by Rohan Solar Power Ltd. of Bengaluru. The land would be provided on leasefor a period of 30 years. Mr. Madhuswamy said the Cabinet approved creation of Hebri hobli in Hebri taluk of Udupi district. A total of 12 villages of Ajekar hobli and four villages of Kundapur hobli would come under the new Hebri hobli. It was decided to provide kits containing soaps, powder, and hair oil to students of residential schools and colleges at the cost of Rs. 24.85 crore. Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Ltd. would supply the kits, Mr. Madhuswamy said. A sum of Rs. 15 crore was approved for developing a two-lane highway between Khanapur and Talaguppa in Sirsi taluk of Uttara Kannada, the Minister said. A sum of Rs. 28.2 crore was been approved for construction of a protection wall at Hipparagi Barrage in Bagalkot district. Services of auditors S.B. Lokesh and T.S. Jayaramaiah in the Karnataka Lokayukta have been extended for one more year owing to the absence of eligible candidates in the body. The State Accounts Department has been facing a shortage of manpower and therefore it was decided to extend their services for one more year, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rules-on-police-promotion-revised/article36850640.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||City transport firm owner opens fire, bullet misses target but hits his son||Mangaluru South Police have registered a case on a complaint filed by Mohan, an accountant with the firm. Investigation is on. Teams from Forensic Science Laboratory are assisting police in the investigation. The police are verifying CCTV footage from the firm as well as from nearby locations. As it occurred in broad daylight in front of several people, the incident has sent shock waves among the residents of the area. The police are continuing to question Prabhu, while Sudheendra is in ICU of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-transport-firm-owner-opens-fire-bullet-misses-target-but-hits-his-son/article36850895.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Warm gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warm-gesture/article36850639.ece
06 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Lookout notice for CPI(M) member||The police have launched a probe into the mysterious disappearance of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) branch committee member from Thottappally. Since Sept. 29 K. Sajeevan, 56, has been missing since September 29. The Ambalappuzha police have issued a lookout notice for the missing person. A fisherman, he was last seen at Thottappally around noon last Wednesday. According to his family members, he went to sea for fishing at 5 a.m. on Wednesday and returned to the Thottappally harbour at 11 a.m. Later, people had seen him alighting from an autorickshaw at Thottappally around noon, before he went missing. His family has filed a missing complaint to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the local police. A member of the CPI (M) Poothoppu branch committee, Sajeevan was to attend the branch committee conference of the party as a delegate on September 30. Following his disappearance, the branch panel meeting has been postponed. The Karimanal Ghanana Virudha Ekopana Samithi, which is on a protest path against the mineral sand-mining at Thottappally, has demanded that the man-missing case be handed over to the Crime Branch. "Sajeevan has actively participated in the protests against the ongoing mineral sand-mining at Thottappally. While he joined ranks with the protesters, his party, the CPI(M), and its local leaders have openly supported the mining activities. The disappearance of one of the leaders of the protest is mysterious and is raising several questions. The nexus between local CPI (M) leaders, the police and mining contractors is disrupting peace in the region,” said S. Suresh Kumar, chairman of the samithi. The investigation is led by Ambalappuzha Circle Inspector S. Dhwijesh. He said the police had widened the probe to the neighbouring districts to find the missing person. H. Salam, MLA, has written to the Chief Minister and State Police Chief Anil Kant urging to conduct a scientific investigation to find Sajeevan. Mr. Salam said that various rumours were being spread in connection with the missing case. Satyagraha Meanwhile, the indefinite relay satyagraha being staged under the aegis of the samithi against the mineral sand-mining at Thottappally completed 118 days on Tuesday.  Samithi demands that the case be handed over to Crime Branch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lookout-notice-for-cpim-member/article36850596.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Stalin launches scheme for barbers in temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched a scheme for the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to provide a monthly incentive of Rs. 5,000 to barbers in temples. Under the scheme, 1,744 barbers will be given identity cards and paid a monthly incentive of Rs. 5,000 from the respective temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stalin-launches-scheme-for-barbers-in-temples/article36850564.ece
06 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Suicide of minor girl: one arrested in Idukki||The police have arrested one person in connection with the suicide of a 17-year-old girl at Karadikuzhy under the Peerumade police station limits in Idukki district. The incident took place in December. The girl’s body was recovered from a pond near her house. The post-mortem examination report had revealed that the girl was subjected to sexual abuse, and a DNA test of three suspects was carried out. The test of Karadikuzhy resident Anand, 22, who was close to the girl, turned positive. The police arrested him on Monday. According to the police, the accused, who used drugs, visited the girl at her house when she was alone. POCSO case In another case, an accused in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences  (POCSO) case who had gone underground was arrested at Vazhavara, near Kattappana, on Tuesday. The arrested has been identified as Vazhavara resident Kalluvachel Sabu, who ran a ration shop. The police said Sabu had intruded into the house of a 12-year-old girl on August 21 this year when she was alone and allegedly attempted to molest her. The girl managed to escape and alerted a relative. The accused was arrested when he reached Vazhavara after he had gone into hiding in Mumbai and Bengaluru, the police said. He would be produced before court after collection of evidence, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suicide-of-minor-girl-one-arrested-in-idukki/article36850592.ece
06 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Focus on sports infra in Idukki||More importance to infrastructure building to develop sports will be given in the Idukki package, for which official-level discussions with stakeholders have began. Those who participated in a discussion on the Idukki package held at the collectorate on Tuesday pointed out the poor sports infrastructure though the district contributed many eminent sportspersons. Swimming pools with enough facilities should be built at school-level and trainers should be appointed. Playgrounds should be developed and talent identified at an early age. Equipment should be supplied to them at the local body-level. The meeting also observed that many talented sportspersons could not compete in national and international events due to lack of facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-sports-infra-in-idukki/article36850587.ece
06 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Half-marathon to be held in Idukki||The district administration in association with various organisations will hold a Half-Marathon - Dam to Dam Run aimed at promoting sports tourism in the district on October 10. The marathon to begin on Kulamavu dam premises will end at Cheruthoni dam area after covering 21 km. A meeting held at the collectorate released the logo and reviewed the arrangements. A press release here said that a medical team will support the marathon in addition to providing all facilities for the runners. The programme is being arranged without disturbing traffic and other activities, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/half-marathon-to-be-held-in-idukki/article36850594.ece
06 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||43 kg of ganja seized from abandoned car in Idukki||The Thodupuzha police seized 43 kg of ganja from a parked car near a private bus stand on Tuesday. The police have launched a search to identify those behind the stash. It is suspected that a gang involved in taking vehicles on rent and using them for transportation of contraband items is behind it. The police said the owner of the car who had rented it out, spotted it on the road by chance after the vehicle was not returned on time. It then came to light that the persons who had taken the car on rent had pledged it to another for a large amount. The original owner immediately informed the police, who seized the ganja upon inspection. A case has been registered at the Elamakkara police station in Ernakulam district with regard to the theft of the car. A senior police official said there have been complaints about rise in sale of narcotic items in Thodupuzha recently. The police have stepped up vigil, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/43-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-abandoned-car-in-idukki/article36850591.ece
06 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Governor to arrive in Wayanad today||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will visit the district on Wednesday and Thursday. Mr. Khan will visit the Ambedkar Memorial Rural Institute for Development here at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. He will also visit the Wayanad Heritage Museum at 11.15 a.m, the Ecotourism Centre at Muthanga under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary at 12.30 p.m. and the Weavers’ Village at Thirunelly at 4.15 p.m. on the day. Mr. Khan will attend the convocation ceremony of the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Pookode at 11.15 a.m. on Thursday and also visit the Naranga Kandy tribal hamlet here at 3 p.m. on the day. He will leave for Thiruvananthapuram at 8 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-to-arrive-in-wayanad-today/article36850557.ece
06 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ex-DCC chief of Wayanad quits party||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) member and former Wayanad District Congress Committee president, P.V. Balachandran, on Tuesday resigned from the party. Mr. Balachandran told mediapersons that he quit the party after realising that the Congress leadership was continuously acting against the spirit of party members.  Mr. Balachandran said he would be in active politics, but was yet to decide which party to join. Recently, he alleged that I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, had borrowed money from candidates for appointment in Congress-ruling co-operative banks in the district. He wrote a letter to State Congress leadership and released it publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-dcc-chief-of-wayanad-quits-party/article36850560.ece
06 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Drive for vaccination of tribespeople||The Wayanad district administration, in association with the Health and Tribal Development department, has launched a taluk level tribal vaccination drive to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic among tribespersons in the district. Mananthavady taluk Mananthavady Municipal Chairperson C.K. Ratnavally inaugurated the drive at Valliyurkavu near Mananthavady on Tuesday. The drive was conducted at nine centres on the day. It will continue in 10 centres in the Mananthavady taluk on Wednesday. The programme will be held in Sulthan Bathery and Kalpetta taluks on October 7 and 8 and October 11 and 12 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-for-vaccination-of-tribespeople/article36850561.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||GIFT City: residents want govt. to avoid taking over 32 houses||With the government issuing a gazette notification for acquiring over 144 hectares in Ayampuzha panchayat in Aluva taluk for the proposed Global Industrial Financial and Trade City (GIFT City), residents in the village have said they expected the government authorities to still favourably consider a request to avoid taking over 32 houses and their premises that fell within the area notified for acquisition. Jaya Francis, member of the panchayat council representing ward six, said 23 of the houses that will be taken over for the project fell within the ward and that a request had been made to the authorities to exempt them from being taken over. Ayampuzha panchayat president P.U. Joemon said that the gazette notification was expressive of the development plans and the land acquisition authorities had avoided as many living premises as they could. He said the panchayat had not received any specific complaints regarding the land acquisition notification so far. The residents of the panchayat can, however, submit their complaints within 15 days before the designated authorities. Bijoy Cherian, convener of Jankeeya Munnetta Samithi, which had launched a protest action against the acquisition of agricultural land after the project was announced, claimed that there was sufficient fallow land available that could be taken over for the project. There were around 170 hectares of fallow land available, which could have been taken over for the project, he claimed on Tuesday. He said that the segment of the land was formerly a cashew plantation and belonged to the government. The gazette notification had said that the land being acquired would fall under Resurvey Block 19 and that 32 families would have to be rehabilitated. Deputy Collector, Land Acquisition, and a Special Tehsildar have been put in charge of the land acquisition. GIFT City is part of the Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor project backed by the Union Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gift-city-residents-want-govt-to-avoid-taking-over-32-houses/article36850862.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Adalats to expedite payment of land acquisition compensation||Adalats will be held on October 6, 7, 8 and 11 to speed up the process of paying compensation for land being taken over for the development of national highway 66 between Edappally and Moothakunnam. A communication from the district administration said here on Tuesday that the adalats will help pay the Rs. 1,200 crore that has been allotted for acquiring land for the development project. Officials from different village offices, sub-registrar’s office and other local bodies will participate in the adalat to make available all the documents that are needed to speed up the land acquisition process, the communication added. Arrangements are being made to pay the compensation amount within seven days of the submission of the ownership certificate, said S. Shajahan, Additional District Magistrate. If the documents are delayed, the compensation amount will be deposited with the court to complete the land acquisition process, the communication said. A total of 22.44 hectares will be acquired from Edappally North, Cheranalloor, Varapuzha, Alangad, Kottuvally, Paravoor, Vadakkekara and Moothakunnam villages, the communication said. Twelve landowners in Cheranalloor village have been given Rs. 9.8 crore so far as part of the land acquisition process. Adalats will be held for Edappally North and Cheranalloor villages on October 6 at Friends Library, Kunnumpuram, from 10 am; Alangad and Varapuzha villages have the adalats on October 7 at St. Phenomena’s LP School, Koonammavu, from 10 am; Vadakkekara and Moothakunnam villages will have the adalats on October 8 at the Service Cooperative Bank No. 3131 from 10 am; Kottuvally and Paravur villages will have the adalat on October 11 at the NSS Karayogam Hall, Vazhikulangara, from 10 am.  Arrangements are being made to pay compensation within seven days of submission of ownership certificate S. Shajahan Additional District Magistrate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adalats-to-expedite-payment-of-land-acquisition-compensation/article36850859.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Many parents in city undecided on sending their children to school||The government decision to reopen schools from November 1 onwards has evoked mixed reactions among parents in the city. They have been contacting the school authorities to share their concerns and clear their doubts on how their children would be able to resume their offline sessions safely amidst the pandemic concerns. A section of the managements of unaided schools had elicited response of parents online on school reopening. Many parents have not been able to take a decision on whether to send their children to schools and seem to be zeroing in on a wait-and-watch approach, according to the initial feedback from managements. “Parents are mostly concerned about the safety of their children and wanted to know the measures being taken to ensure a risk-free atmosphere while resuming classes in the physical mode. We had already started making efforts to ease their anxieties by deciding to come up with a School Support Document,” said Indira Rajan, chief patron of the Council of CBSE Schools Kerala. The initial feedback received by schools showed that several parents have not been able to decide owing to the lack of clarity on the availability of school buses. The majority of them were not in a position to drop and pick up their children in their vehicles as they had to report for work or for other practical reasons. “It would be really difficult to operate the bus services as the regulations suggest that only one child could be accommodated in a seat. With only 50% of the students turning up daily, the plying of school buses would not be feasible. Some managements had informed that they were willing to offer the service, if the parents were able to meet the expenses considering the fact that fuel prices had gone over the roof,” said T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the Kerala CBSE School Managements’ Association. A section of the parents had informed the school authorities that they were ready to send their children from the first day of reopening. They have cited the need for children to go back to the physical mode of learning while pointing out the shortcomings in the online mode of teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-parents-in-city-undecided-on-sending-their-children-to-school/article36850869.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rehabilitation plan for traders in the offing||A rehabilitation plan for traders, who have set up their shops on top of the Mullassery Canal, is in the offing. The makeshift shops had come up on the slabs laid across the canal. Officials of the Irrigation Department, which drew up the canal restoration plan, had insisted on the removal of traders from the banks of the canal. The department had also listed out the encroachments along the canal, which resulted in the reduction of its carrying capacity. There are over 74 shops on top of the Mullassery Canal, and the canal restoration and deepening works can be carried out only after removing the shops from there, said a senior engineer of the Kochi Corporation. The Kochi Corporation is exploring the possibility of shifting the traders to the campus of the Kerala Water Authority, which is located near the canal, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. “The civic body cannot throw out the traders to the streets. Even if the traders are served with eviction notices, the civic body will ensure that they are rehabilitated properly,” he said. The issue of rehabilitation was discussed with the Managing Director of the Kerala Water Authority. The official had responded positively to the request of the city administration. The civic body had also written to the Authority seeking its holding for the rehabilitation of traders. The director board of the Authority may take a positive decision shortly, he said. Govt. nod Meanwhile, the State Government has issued the technical sanction to the Irrigation Department for canal restoration works. The department has proposed to complete the works in three months. While the department would implement the project, the responsibility of removing the encroachments along the canal is with the district administration and the Kochi Corporation, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehabilitation-plan-for-traders-in-the-offing/article36850865.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Navy data centre inaugurated||Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, on Tuesday inaugurated Naval Communication Network Satellite Data Centre, a state-of-the-art facility, at the INS Dweeprakshak at Kavaratti. Speaking on the occasion, the Admiral said that the satellite data centre would provide a tremendous boost to the communication throughput of the Indian Navy. He added that it was another milestone towards the seamless network-centric operations of the armed forces. DIG D. Dinakar, District Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Lakshadweep; A Anbarasu, Adviser to Lakshadweep Administrator; Commander Praveen, Commanding Officer, INS Dweeprakshak; S. Asker Ali, District Collector, Lakshadweep; and Egna Cleetus, Assistant Collector, Lakshadweep, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-data-centre-opened-at-kavaratti/article36850758.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Single judge order on KU postings set aside||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday set aside a single judge’s verdict quashing a notification issued by the University of Kerala on the appointment of 58 teachers, treating all the posts in the categories of professors/associate professors/assistant professors in various teaching departments of the university as one category for the purposes of community reservation. The Bench, comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Mohammed Nias C.P., passed the order while allowing appeals filed by the University of Kerala and the State Government against the single judge’s ruling that had also quashed an amendment brought to the university statutes in this regard. The court pointed out that the Union Government had recognised the principle of treating the university/ college/ institution as a single unit for the purpose of reservation of posts in direct recruitment in the teachers' cadre. UGC directive The University Grants Commission (UGC) had also issued instructions to all Central and State universities and deemed universities coming under its purview to adopt the said practice in the respective educational institutions falling under their jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/single-judge-order-on-ku-postings-set-aside/article36850606.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Complaint: HC asks SPC to file affidavit||The Kerala High Court has directed the State Police Chief (SPC) to file an affidavit explaining the action taken against two police officers of Thenmala station, Kollam, who allegedly handcuffed a Dalit youth to the station’s handrail. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order recently on a petition filed by K. Rajeev of Thenmala, Kollam, alleging police harassment for demanding receipt for a complaint lodged with the police complaints authority The court said that the report filed by Dy.SP, Kollam Rural, found that at least two police officers had treated the petitioner with unimaginable barbarity– handcuffing him to the handrail of the police station and registering multiple cases against him- all because he dared to ask receipt for a complaint filed before the Police Complaints Authority. Terming the incident as shocking, the court observed that what was more worrying was the submission of the government pleader, that the officials involved appeared to be still in service. The report of the Dy.SP. certainly was a step in the right direction. But if no action has been taken, it really indicated a collapse of the policing system, observed the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaint-hc-asks-spc-to-file-affidavit/article36850588.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rajeeve to release novel penned by city student||Sana Sajan, a Seventh Standard student in the city, is preparing to publish a series of four novels. The first of the series “Kleta Maxen and the Quest to the Baities” will be released by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on October 10. Writer Muse Mary George will receive the first copy. The series of novels fall under the fantasy genre, said a spokesperson for Pithal Publications, the publisher, based in Kozhikode. The young author, Sana, hails from Ottappalam and is a student at a school in Kochi. She said she had been writing short stories even before she had reached the age of 10 and had great interest in literature and writing. She had been an avid reader and the first novel has been completed over a period of two years, she said. The second part of the novel “Kleta Maxen and the Rise of the Monarch” is expected to be out in December this year. Sana has been a reader of English novels and short stories and has been interested in fantasy and adventure stories. She started writing around the age of eight. The series of novels starting with "Kleta Maxen and the Quest to the Baities" revolves around an 11-year-old girl, who realises she has some miraculous powers and lands up in a magical world where she and her friends have to face scary characters and cruel animals in an arduous journey. Sana’s mother Swapna Sajan, who is a gynaecologist, said her daughter wanted to pursue a career in writing. Sana’s father P.M. Sajan is a neurologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rajeeve-to-release-novel-penned-by-city-student/article36850861.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Health dept. urges public to avoid self-medication||The Health Department has advised the public against self-medication as it would increase mortality rate among persons affected by leptospirosis. The warning assumes significance amidst reports of a spike in cases of leptospirosis in the district. Ernakulam has reported around 256 suspected cases of leptospirosis while 109 cases have been confirmed. Four deaths have been confirmed over the past one year while the number of deaths suspected to be due to the disease is 17, according to official estimates. Symptoms “People should refrain from self-medication, if they have any symptom associated with leptospirosis. There have been instances when persons affected by the disease had resorted to self-medication. They need to immediately consult a doctor,” said Dr. Vinod Paulose, District Surveillance Officer for non-COVID diseases. The symptoms include fever, redness in eyes, headache, skin rash and muscle pain. Any delay in seeking treatment would affect the liver and kidney of the patient. Multi-organ failure is reported in severe cases. Dr. Paulose said that people rearing cattle, involved in agriculture work, and cleaning workers need to be careful while at work as the chances of getting infected from urine and droppings of animals carrying the bacteria in stagnant water were high. “They should have the doxycycline tablets distributed by the government,” he said. Workers in such scenarios should wear boots that would cover their feet from getting exposed to the infection. They should also have gloves as a precautionary measure. Those having wounds in hands or their feet should refrain from work and should return only after it is cured, according to the health authorities. The department has pointed out that symptoms like fever and throat pain need not be viewed as symptoms of COVID-19 only, as it could be cases related to leptospirosis and dengue fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-urges-public-to-avoid-self-medication/article36850751.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records 1,099 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 1,099 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. A total of 1,063 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 22 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 6.2%. The regions in which positive cases were higher than 30 included Vadakkekara (92), Thripunitura (51), Pallipuram (41), and Thrikkakara (36). Pneumococcal vaccine The district-level launch of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) will be held here on Wednesday. District Collector Jafar Malik will inaugurate the programme at Govt. General Hospital at 10 am. The vaccine will protect young children from pneumonia, meningitis and blood infections caused by Streptococcus pneumonia bacteria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-1099-new-covid-19-cases/article36850867.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Koshy panel sitting to be held in city||A sitting of the J.B. Koshy Committee, constituted to look into the issues faced by the minority communities of the State, will be held at the government guest house in the city on October 13 from 10 a.m. Those interested in making submissions to the commission should register their names on the telephone number 0484-2993148. The first 50 persons will be admitted to the sitting, said a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/koshy-panel-sitting-to-be-held-in-city/article36850860.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Chocolate fest by KMRL on Oct.16||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) will organise a chocolate fest on October 16 for chocolate lovers. The fest will be open to the public at Edappally metro station from 8 am to 8 pm. Those who wish to participate may register by visiting www.kochimetro.org, according to a communication from KMRL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chocolate-fest-by-kmrl/article36850757.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Monson remanded||Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled antiquity trader, was remanded to the custody of the Crime Branch till October 7. The investigating agency sought the custody of the accused to interrogate him on a complaint that he had cheated a Pala native of Rs. 10 crore. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, which considered the request of the Crime Branch, remanded him till 5 p.m. on October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monson-remanded/article36850866.ece
06 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Land to be identified for new KV||District Collector Jaffar Malik has said that a suitable land will be identified for establishing a Kendriya Vidyalaya around the district headquarters in Kakkanad. A statement issued by the Public Relations Department here on Tuesday said that different locations were under consideration for the project. Officials concerned have been instructed to visit locations identified for the project in Kakkanad, Thrikkakara, Vazhakkulam and Kunnathunad villages and submit their reports. Officials from Kendriya Vidyalaya and village officers will jointly inspect the locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-to-be-identified-for-new-kv/article36850868.ece
06 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Foreign currency worth Rs. 42 lakh seized||Sleuths from the Air Customs Intelligence seized currency worth Rs. 42 lakh in Saudi Riyal from a passenger bound for Dubai from the Cochin International Airport here on Tuesday. The seizure took place in the early hours of Tuesday morning. The currency was seized from a native of Aluva, who was to take an Emirates flight bound for Dubai, sources said. It is suspected that the foreign currency was meant for organising gold smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foreign-currency-worth-rs-42-lakh-seized/article36850677.ece
06 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Emergency ABC programme in Mullumala tribal colony||The Piravanthur grama panchayat has taken steps to launch an emergency Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme in the local body after a 17-year-old girl from the Mullumala tribal colony died of rabies. She had developed the symptoms and succumbed to the infection in September and the cause of death was revealed last Saturday after a pathological autopsy. Another suspected rabies death was also reported from the area. According to residents, both the victims were bitten by the same stray dog. “The other victim was a senior citizen from the same colony. Though they developed the virus-induced complications only recently, both were bitten by a dog around eight months ago. Another girl from nearby Chembanaruvi was also attacked by the same stray, but she took the vaccine on time,” said R. Jayan, panchayat president on Tuesday. According to Health and Panchayat officials, tribal colonies with a large number of stray dogs pose a major challenge in such situation. “Another issue is the lack of awareness and hesitancy to take the vaccine. A total of 27 persons, including all primary contacts of the victim, have been vaccinated, but it was a task convincing them.” Though the residents claim the stray that bit the victims was not from the colony, all the dogs keep wandering outside the neighbourhood, coming into constant contact with other strays. “Each house in the colony has four to five dogs and we are planning to bring down the canine population by implementing the ABC programme. The programme will start soon and all the strays will be vaccinated,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emergency-abc-programme-in-mullumala-tribal-colony/article36850589.ece
06 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Webinar on Gandhi||The district administration, District Information Office, Mannam Memorial NSS College, and Gandhi Peace Foundation, jointly organised a webinar on ‘Gandhiji in Immortal Memories’ on Tuesday in connection with Gandhi Jayanti. “Gandhi’s life is an inspiration to generations,” said District Collector Afsana Parveen, who inaugurated the webinar. College Principal E.N. Sathish presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-gandhi/article36850599.ece
06 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Verdict in Uthra murder case on Oct. 11||The Kollam Additional Sessions Court will pronounce the verdict on the controversial Uthra murder case on October 11. The Kollam Crime Branch (Rural Police) had filed a 1,000-page chargesheet, booking Uthra's husband, Sooraj, under various sections of the IPC for murder, attempt to murder and destruction of evidence. He had used a cobra to murder his wife and 25-year-old Uthra’s body was found on May 7 at her home in Anchal. Uthra had survived an earlier attempt using a viper and she died while recuperating after the first incident. Her husband had procured both the snakes from a handler, who later turned approver. The investigative team had conducted the autopsy of the snake to confirm that the DNA of the same snake was found in the bottle Sooraj stored the cobra in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uthra-verdict-on-oct-11/article36850600.ece
06 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||806 test positive in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 806 people testing positive for the disease on Monday Of the fresh cases, 800 people including two health workers contracted the virus through local transmission, a pressnote said. With 96 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Eattumanur, which recorded 41 cases . As many as 977 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,610. Meanwhile, 50,632 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Kollam Kollam reported 755 new cases of COVID-19 and 108 recoveries on Tuesday. While 751 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include four health workers. At present the district has 42,994 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,57,639. While 1,619 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,82,751 primary and 20,954 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 11.1 %. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 514 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 510 contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. With 36 cases, Pathanamathitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ranni-Perunad, which reported 25 cases. The disease also claimed six lives in the district With 804 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases stood at 6,168. ( With contributions from bureaus in Kollam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/806-test-positive-in-kottayam/article36850595.ece
06 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||What’s the beef? It’s the skyrocketing price||Of the different dietary traditions observed across the world, the delicacy of cooked tapioca with thick, spicy beef always strikes Kottayam as obviously desirable and as native as the biriyani in Malabar. But not any more. The skyrocketing price for meat has forced several families to skip the item from their diet. Considering the status of beef as a common staple for many, the issue has now drawn an intervention at the district level. Uniform price A meeting of the Kottayam district panchayat, the other day, decided to set a uniform price of Rs. 320 per kilogram of meat across the district. The move takes a cue from recent efforts by the Manjoor and Mulakkulam grama panchayats in stabilising the beef prices at Rs. 330 and Rs. 340 respectively. “In my capacity as chairperson of the district planning committee and as chairperson of the district panchayat, letters have been forwarded to all municipalities and panchayats seeking to convene meetings of meat sellers and bring down the prices to Rs. 320. If we could regulate the prices in a handful of local bodies, meat sellers in remaining locations will have no other option but to fall in line,” Nirmala Jimmy said. Kottayam consumes a vast quantity of meat, beef in particular, according to Ms. Jimmy. “Most people, especially farmers, would like to have meat in their diet at least once a week,” she added. The price for quality beef in Kottayam varies between Rs. 350 and Rs. 390 while it is available at a much lesser price in the neighbouring parts of Idukki and Ernakulam districts. The move, however, appears to have not gone down well with meat sellers, who are set to approach court against the move. “The action is in violation of a High Court order preventing government agencies from regulating the price of beef, which is a non-essential commodity,” said Salim, president of the Meat Industries Welfare Association. With bulk of the cattle for meat sales in Kerala coming from other States, the traders will be able to cut down on the retail prices by at least Rs. 50 per kg if the authorities intervene to stop the surging goon attacks or abuse of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act ,1960 on cattle trucks, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/whats-the-beef-its-the-skyrocketing-price/article36850608.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nirakeralam exhibition begins in Kozhikode||With the opening of ‘Nirakeralam’, the biggest exhibition organised by the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi after the lockdown, the Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode has come alive once again. The exhibition features art works by 29 artists in the district from Nirakeralam and Shilpa Keralam, mega art camps organised by the Akademi. The works of 300 artists who had taken part in the camps are being exhibited simultaneously at 13 art galleries under the Akademi across the state, while the final exhibition will be held at Thiruvananthapuram later. The exhibition features paintings as well as sculptures using a variety of mediums and the theme of most works is related to the pandemic and its effect on human lives. Meanwhile, an exhibition of photographs, ‘Kakka Muthal Vezhambal Vare’, organised by the Department of Forests in connection with Wildlife Week is also under way at the gallery. The exhibition concludes on October 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nirakeralam-exhibition-begins-in-kozhikode/article36850552.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No official word yet on surveillance of bats||The Animal Husbandry Department is yet to get any official directive on the proposed surveillance of bats on riverbanks from Kasaragod to Ernakulam against the backdrop of recurring cases of Nipah infection in the State. The infection was reported in Kerala thrice in two years since 2018. Kozhikode reported the first outbreak and a single case and a death occurred here in September this year too. Victims Some of the victims in 2018 were from Malappuram district. In 2019, another single case was reported in Ernakulam district. Incidentally, it has been a month since Mohammed Hashim, the 12-year-old native of Pazhoor near Chathamangalam in the district, succumbed to the infection. K.K. Baby, District Coordinator, Animal Disease Control Project Office, Kozhikode, said here on Tuesday that the periodic surveillance was supposed to be a joint exercise by the Veterinary, Forest, and Health departments. It was to determine the presence of the Nipah virus. The State Institute of Animal Diseases too was planned to be roped in. The proposal was moved by Health Minister Veena George. “There is no official word on the bat surveillance,” he added. The Health Department too does not seem to have any idea about it. Nipah virus antibodies (IgG antibodies) were detected in bat samples collected by the National Institute of Virology, Pune, from Kodiyathoor and Thamarassery recently. Antibodies A sample belonging to the Pteropus species, collected from Thamarassery, was found to have the antibodies, while similar ones were detected in another sample from the Rousettus species collected from Kodiyathoor. The results of over 50 bat samples collected as part of the outbreak investigation are still awaited. There is lack of clarity on further epidemiological studies. Also, how the virus got transmitted to humans is yet to be conclusively proven. Public health experts have been demanding a permanent surveillance system to detect similar zoonotic infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-official-word-on-proposed-bat-surveillance-in-kerala/article36850559.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||State lags in executing AMRUT projects||Kerala is struggling to complete the projects under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation ( AMRUT ) in nine civic bodies even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week announced the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban aimed at making India's cities garbage-free and water-secure. As of September 30, only 52.59 % of the funds was expended for the schemes categorised in different components such as water supply, sewerage, storm water drainage, urban transport, and development of parks. This, when the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is moving forward to introduce its flagship programme in several cities in the second phase. Kerala has submitted three State Annual Action Plans (SAAPs) approved by the Ministry for an outlay of Rs. 2,357.69 crore for 1,000 projects in nine civic bodies —Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Thrissur, Guruvayur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, and Kannur — during 2015-2022. Statewise, 738 projects have been completed, technical sanction has been issued for 999 projects and tenders awarded for 996 projects so far. Among the civic bodies in spending the funds, the Kollam Corporation ( 31.53%) and Kozhikode Corporation (37.38%) are the worst performers. The Alappuzha municipality is the best performer with 71.74 %. The remaining are Thiruvananthapuram 55.69%, Thrissur 49.50%, Palakkad 58.54%, Kannur 62.32% , Kochi 49.19% and Guruvayur 61.31%. The sector-wise progress showed that only 14.94% had been spent for sewerage and septage projects while 69.05% spent for water supply. The others are stormwater drainage (66.58%), urban transport (40.73%) and green space and parks (53.75%). Civic bodies The majority of the projects conceived during the fiscal 2015-16 was submitted to the Ministry in 2018 through an Annual Action Plan for 2017-2020. The contribution of civic bodies is 20% while the State government shares 30% and the Centre contributes the remaining funds. Officials said the slow progress was attributed to the COVID-19-induced lockdown in 2019 and 2020. Besides, the State also witnessed disastrous floods during the southwest monsoon season of 2018 and 2019. The urban local bodies have been facing stiff resistance from local residents in executing projects such as sewerage and septage while the Kerala Water Authority has been to an extent successful in implementing the water supply projects. Tendering of projects has also run into controversy, especially when Kozhikode-based Ram Biologicals was awarded the contract to prepare a Detailed Project Report for a proposed sewage treatment plant, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-civic-bodies-lag-in-executing-amrut-projects/article36850563.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MVD to set up AI cameras in 45 locations||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) is planning to introduce high-end traffic enforcement cameras equipped with Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities in Kozhikode. Under the Safe Kerala initiative, the new project will make AI-based surveillance possible in 45 identified locations, which are at present outside the surveillance network. The purpose of the new project implemented by the MVD’s Enforcement wing is mainly to track drivers reluctant to wear seat belts and helmets. Misuse of mobile phones can also be detected using the camera network which will be connected to the MVD’s modern control room. According to MVD officials, both urban and rural areas will be included in the list of locations to be monitored under the state-level initiative to reduce road accidents. As the operations are fully automated with a single control room, there will be minimal manual responsibilities for the officials to process notices to be sent to the violators concerned, they add. The Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) is the implementing agency of the project across the state. In Kozhikode district, they have completed the first phase of civil works. The final phase of fixing cameras after completing structural works is expected to be over in two months. Apart from the AI-based cameras, the department has a number of other speed detection cameras linked to its state-level control room for stringent action. Road enforcement squad members in the district point out that the practice of blacklisting vehicles frequently caught for speed limit violations has had a positive effect on many reckless drivers. The recent launch of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras by the city police has also contributed to tracking road rule violations and the movement of suspicious vehicles used for criminal activities and drug trafficking. All the major entrances and traffic junctions in the city are now under the surveillance project linked to a district-level command centre under the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-to-set-up-ai-cameras-in-45-locations/article36850558.ece
06 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Centre intimidating independent media: MP||Those who are trying to uncover the truth are being labelled “anti-national” in the country, M.V. Shreyams Kumar, Rajya Sabha MP, has said. Opening a protest meeting to mark the year-long incarceration of Delhi-based Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan here on Tuesday, he said that independent news media organisations had been made puppets of the Central government through intimidation and threats. Mr. Kappan was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police last year while he was on his way to report the brutal rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras. “It is the job of the media to tell the truth to the people, who have the right to know what is happening in the political, social, and cultural spheres. Democracy is being strengthened through this. This freedom, however, has ceased to exist in India,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that many national mainstream media organisations were reluctant to report important incidents. “But simultaneously, fake information is being manufactured and spread across the country. The damage it is causing to democracy is severe,” he said. The Loktantrik Janata Dal leader said that Mr. Kappan was jailed after being slapped with sedition charges for just trying to report a serious issue. Efforts were being made to create an emotional atmosphere saying that the country was in danger. This was to prevent people’s right to know, Mr. Kumar said. N.P. Rajendran, senior journalist, said that the media fraternity was facing a big challenge now as the authorities were freely slapping charges on journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-intimidating-independent-media-mp/article36850553.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||After reading Gandhi, students focus on Nehru||Meppayur Government Vocational Higher Secondary School in Kozhikode, which recently created history by ensuring that all students read Mahatma Gandhi’s autobiography, has now shifted its focus to the first Prime Minister of the country, Jawaharlal Nehru. Now, Nehru’s book Letters from a father to his daughter will be read in all classes. Nehru reading The ‘Nehru reading’ will be held from October 15 to November 14, the birth anniversary of Nehru, also known as Children’s Day. Chapters from Nehru’s book will be sent to class groups as audio files. As schools reopen on November 1, the reading will be carried out both offline and online. The ‘Nehru reading’ was launched by T.P. Ramakrishnan, MLA, on Saturday, during the valedictory of the ‘Gandhi reading event’. He handed over a copy of Letters from a father to his daughter to Ashish Aman, a Class 6 student, to mark the launch. The ‘Gandhi reading’ carried out by the school over a period of 106 days from July 19 to October 2 was a unique event. Noted personalities While the students read the book in chapters, several noted personalities also became part of the event through talks related to Gandhi during the period.   Letters from a father to his daughter to be read by all children of Meppayur school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-reading-gandhi-students-focus-on-nehru/article36850555.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cycle tour||Kozhikode-based Grand Cycle Challenge is organising a State-wide cycle tour to support the tourism sector that is on the path of revival post COVID, with the support and cooperation of the Department of Tourism. The tour will begin on December 4 and will be flagged off by Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohammed Riyas in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-tour/article36850556.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surendran rejigs BJP State unit||Effecting some significant changes in the party organisational set-up, BJP State president K. Surendran has included new faces in its national council, added State office-bearers and replaced four district presidents. Actor Krishna Kumar, party’s candidate from Thiruvananthapuram for the last Assembly election, along with G. Raman Nair , M.S. Sampoorna and G. Gireesan have been made national council members. Polls debacle The shake-up comes after the party suffered a humiliating defeat in the Assembly polls held in April. The party failed to retain even its lone segment Nemom, even as all its major contestants, including technocrat E. Sreedharan and Mr. Surendran, did not make it to the Assembly. No additions have been made to the list of existing six general secretaries. However P. Reghunath, B. Gopalakrishnan and C. Sivakutty have been elevated to the post of vice presidents. The newly inducted secretaries are K. Sreekanth, Pandalam Prathapan, J.R. Padmakumar and Renu Suresh. Thus, 10 members will be holding these two posts. Also, E. Krishnadas has been made the new treasurer. The new district presidents are V.A.Sooraj (Pathanamthitta), G. Lijin Lal (Kottayam), K.M. Haridas (Palakkad), K.P.Madhu (Wayanad) and Ravisha Thantri ( Kasaragod).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-rejigs-bjp-state-unit/article36850605.ece
06 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Petrol leak triggers panic at Tanur||People were evacuated and vehicle movement was stopped following a petrol leak from a tanker lorry at Tanur junction on Tuesday night. The petrol-laden tanker developed a large crack after it hit an electric post at the junction. The petrol started gushing out of the tanker and it spread to the road and neighbouring areas. The drains along the sides of the road were soon filled with petrol. Fire and Rescue Services personnel evacuated people living in the vicinity and closed shops in the area. Power supply to the area was disconnected and vehicles heading towards Tanur junction were diverted. There was panic among the people as news spread about the massive petrol leak. Fire and Rescue Services personnel and other experts plugged the leak within an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-leak-triggers-panic-at-tanur/article36850554.ece
06 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Street play against Palakkad municipality’s stand on ‘sir’||Activists of the Samskara Sahithi staged a unique protest in front of the municipal office here on Monday by repeating the salutation ‘sir’. The words ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ resonated at the entrance to the municipal compound as the activists protested against Palakkad municipality’s refusal to do away with the salutation ‘sir’. Inaugurating the protest, Youth Congress State secretary Sajesh Chandran said that those in governance were considering themselves to be superior to the people in a land where even God was being called by name. The street play titled ‘Sir’, directed by Deepam Suresh, reminded the people about the folly of following a colonial practice by sticking on to the salutation ‘sir’. K.P. Harigokul Das, Kaladharan Uppumpadam, Binesh Kadur, Gireesh Uppumpadam, Poovakkode Sajeevan, Vipin Das, and Rafeek Karalmanna, enacted different roles in the play. Samskarika Sahithi district chairman Boban Mattumantha presided over the function. K. Bhavadas, M. Ismail, Youth Congress district vice president Ratheesh Puthusseri, Anil Balan, Umer Farook, A.C. Siddharthan, and P.V. Vinoop spoke. The municipal council, a few days ago, had rejected a resolution moved by the Congress demanding a ban to the salutation ‘sir’. Krishnadas Municipal vice chairman and BJP district president E. Krishnadas said that neither the BJP nor the municipality had any affinity towards the salutation ‘sir’. “We are not averse to the demand to do away with ‘sir’ and ‘madam’. We can take a decision on it only after finding a suitable alternative,” said Mr. Krishnadas. The vice chairman said that the resolution moved by a Congress member had been kept aside because it was not a matter to decide by a single stroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-play-against-palakkad-municipalitys-stand-on-sir/article36850670.ece
06 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Remembering Malayalam’s poet with humanitarian values||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated a commemoration of poet Akkitham at Vallathol Vidyapeetham Hall at Edappal on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, he praised Akkitham for being a poet who held humanity up above all other feelings. He called upon the new generation to transfer the virtues left by Akkitham to their successors. Vallathol Vidyapeetham secretary Chathanath Achuthanunni presided over the function. Prajna Pravah organizing secretary J. Nandakumar delivered the Akkitham commemoration. Mr. Khan released two Hindi translations of Akkitham’s books, and felicitated the translators K.G. Prabhakaran and R. Surendran. Poets P.T. Narendra Menon and V. Murali received the books. Varada P.N. recited an Akkitham poem. District Collector V.R. Premkumar, Akkitham’s daughter Indira, and Thapasya Kala Vedi secretary Anoop Kunnath spoke. The Nila Vichara Vedi organised the programme titled Ponnani Kalari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-malayalams-poet-with-humanitarian-values/article36850671.ece
06 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Journalists express solidarity with Kappan||A meeting organised by the district committee of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) here on Tuesday registered solidarity with the incarcerated Malayali journalist, Siddique Kappan, as he completed a year in a Mathura jail. The meeting demanded immediate release of Mr. Kappan from the jail. Mr. Kappan had been arrested and jailed by the Uttar Pradesh government while he was on his way to cover the Hathras rape case in October last year. The BJP government had slapped sedition charges against him. Inaugurating the protest, human rights activist Boban Mattumantha warned that if the society continued its silence against such dictatorial excesses of the governments, we would soon have to see a country where the freedom of the press will be a mirage. Agenda He said journalists in the country had failed to convert Mr. Kappan’s detention into an agenda of the public at large. “If we continue our silence at the wanton use of draconian laws like the UAPA by the government, we will soon witness a new form of democracy guided by totalitarianism,” Mr. Mattumantha said. Palakkad Press Club vice president Jisha Abhinaya presided over the function. Secretary Madhusoodhanan Kartha and KUWJ State committee member Sherin Mohammed spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalists-express-solidarity-with-kappan/article36850750.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM hints at CB probe against Sudhakaran||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday dropped a hint in the Assembly that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran, MP, could come under the ambit of the Crime Branch (CB) investigation into alleged trickster and fake antiquities peddler Monson Mavunkal. Without naming Mr. Sudhakaran, Mr. Vijayan said the CB had received a specific complaint that Monson had accepted a large sum of money as credit from a business person in the presence of an “important person.” The petitioner had named the “dignitary” as an abettor in the complaint. Monson had told the petitioner that he had required the help of some influential people in New Delhi to release foreign payments held up in his various international bank accounts. The complainant had handed over Rs. 25 lakh to Monson in the presence of the VIP as loan. On track “The CB probe is on track and it will reach those responsible. The Opposition need not hurry the probe to settle scores within their own ranks. Let the law take its own course. If somebody has consumed salt, the person will inevitably drink water,” Mr. Vijayan said. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Mr. Vijayan’s attempt to raise the bogey of an investigation against Mr. Sudhakaran to defend the State Government’s complicity in the Monson episode would not pass muster with the public. The KPCC president had made it clear that he was guiltless and ready to face any probe. Mr. Vijayan distanced the Government from Monson’s purported “ancient copper plaque” touted as evidence that a particular family in Alappuzha had a traditional right over the Sabarimala temple. Congress legislator P.T. Thomas had alleged that CPI(M) organ Deshabhimani and some party intellectuals had claimed the plaque was authentic. Mr. Vijayan said the Crime Branch would investigate Mr. Thomas’s complaint that an Italy-based Malayali woman with unknown credentials was an invitee at the State police’s cybersecurity conference Cocoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-hints-at-cb-probe-against-sudhakaran/article36850609.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tax issue: BJP to continue stir||The stalemate at the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation following the ongoing protest by the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over revenue collection issues is set to continue, with the party refusing to call off the protest after a discussion on the issue at a special council meeting on Tuesday. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), meanwhile, is planning to launch house visits across the city to allay the fears of the public over whether their revenue remittances have reflected in the official records. The meeting was convened to discuss an action plan for controlling the use of plastic products in the city. The BJP councillors, who have been sitting on a protest at the council hall since last week, decided to cooperate with the meeting. But, they sat holding placards condemning the administration over the revenue fund misappropriation issue. UDF walks out As soon as the meeting began, the councillors of the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) demanded an immediate discussion on the issue. However, with Mayor Arya Rajendran maintaining that the discussion could be held after the main agenda of the special meeting, the UDF councillors walked out. Later, when the issue was taken up for discussion, BJP councillor M.R. Gopan put forward four demands — the council should pass a resolution demanding the arrest of revenue officials involved in fund misappropriation, a ward-wise list of those who have pending building tax should be published within a week, the online system for tax collection should be updated within a month and a help desk has to be set up for those who have paid their taxes, but which has not been reflected in the system. The BJP would continue with the protests until the demands were met, he said. Replying to the demands, the Mayor said that the administration had taken all possible steps against the erring officials. They were suspended pending investigation and now they had been charged under non-bailable offences. Any further action, including arrest, would be based on the investigation. In case of lapses in investigation, the Corporation itself would take up the issue with the government. Software issues Ms. Rajendran said that the steering committee had decided to publish within a month the ward-wise list of those who had not paid building taxes to allay the fears of the public. The civic body had written to the Minister for Local Self Governments regarding the issues in the Information Kerala Mission’s software for tax collection. It was expected to be resolved soon. She requested the BJP to cooperate with the administration by calling off their protests. However, the BJP councillors refused to relent and began raising slogans as soon as the council meeting ended. The leaders later announced plans for stepping up the protests in the coming days. BJP workers will lay siege to the Corporation office later this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tax-issue-bjp-to-continue-stir/article36850925.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI leadership continues to be at odds with State unit||The simmering differences between the State and the Central leadership of the CPI over party leader Annie Raja’s controversial statement in September that a patently misogynist “Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh gang” with a dismal track record in handling crimes against women helmed the Kerala Police seemed to burst out into the open again on Tuesday. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran had strongly objected to Ms. Raja’s seemingly off-the-cuff statement last month. He had said national leaders should not hold forth on regional issues without consulting the State leadership. Mr. Rajendran had also openly disagreed with CPI general secretary D. Raja’s view that Ms. Raja was well within her rights to hold the police to account on women issues. Ms. Raja is the general secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women, a feeder organisation of the CPI. Party discipline At a press conference in New Delhi after chairing a CPI national council meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Raja seemed to reject Mr. Rajendran’s stance: “The party has certain norms, discipline and internal democracy. Criticising the general secretary or any other party leader in public is not acceptable.” Mr. Rajendran told reporters in Kerala that he was also conversant with the party’s constitution. Mr. Rajendran said he stood by his earlier statement that national leaders should keep the State unit in the loop when commenting on regional issues. Mr. Rajendran had returned to Kerala after attending the national council meeting that concluded in New Delhi on Monday. Ms. Raja’s statement was widely perceived as an oblique criticism of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who handled the Home portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-leadership-continues-to-be-at-odds-with-state-unit/article36850611.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Action plan to curb use of plastic bags, products in city||A special meeting of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation council on Tuesday passed a three-month action plan to curb the usage of plastic carry bags and other products in the city. The meeting decided to completely ban the use of plastic carry bags below 100 microns by June 1 next year and also to ban the usage of carry bags below 120 microns by December 31 next year. Both the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and the United Democratic Front extended support to the Left Democratic Front-controlled Corporation administration’s action plan to cut down on plastic usage. The Opposition councillors said that alternatives should be in place before a ban was implemented. Meetings Over the past two weeks, the Corporation has organised meetings of health inspectors in all health circles. Meetings have also been held with traders’ organisations, the Textile Merchants’ Association, the Plastic Merchants’ Association, the Hotel and Restaurants Association, the Street Vendors’ Association and market associations. Steps will be taken to revive production units making alternative products and step up production in functional units. All such production units are proposed to be made functional by December. By October end, a city-wide campaign will be launched to popularise eco-friendly alternatives to plastic and to make the public aware of the harmful effects of plastics. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-to-curb-use-of-plastic-bags-products-in-city/article36850926.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Leave order goes against ICMR norms||An order of the State Disaster Management Department allowing special leave for employees of Government and public sector institutions while in quarantine but asking them to rejoin duty on the seventh day has come in for much criticism from the scientific community. The order, wherein employees who test positive for COVID-19 are asked to rejoin duty on the seventh day, is unscientific, dangerous, and an outright violation of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols on COVID-19, they say. ICMR guidelines ask positive persons to remain in home isolation for at least 10 days from the onset of symptoms (or from the date of sampling for asymptomatic cases) and that they may discontinue isolation if there is no fever for three days. ‘Order ill-conceived’ “It is now well established that a person who tests positive for COVID-19 remains infectious till about day 10 and, moreover, any complications that might arise out of the cytokine storm unleashed by the virus in the body usually surface after 7-9 days of symptom onset. This is why the State’s discharge guidelines advise patients with mild or moderate disease to remain in home isolation after discharge from hospital, till the 17th day. This order is thus ill-conceived, endangers the life of a COVID patient, and puts everyone around him/her also at much risk of infection,” says a senior health official. “It might be okay to reduce the quarantine period of a primary contact to seven days. But reducing the isolation period of a positive person to rejoin duty on day seven after symptom onset is not right,” he says. The order, on September 15, also states that after day seven, when employees join back, only those with symptoms should test for COVID and that those without any symptoms should not test again. This is in line with the State’s argument that since vaccination against COVID-19 has attained a certain level in the population, asymptomatic people need not be tested and that rather than bother about breakthrough infections and reinfections, the State need to focus only on the treatment of those with severe disease. Health officials say a primary contact in quarantine and a positive patient on isolation are two different things and that the State should correct the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leave-order-goes-against-icmr-norms/article36850614.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sainik School pays tribute to Col. N.J. Nair||A solemn function was held at the Sainik School, Kazhakuttam, here on Tuesday to pay homage to Col. N.J. Nair, an alumnus of the institution, who laid down his life while fighting Naga insurgents in Kohima in 1993. Floral tributes were offered at the bust of Col. Nair on the campus. Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, was the chief guest. Col. Nair’s wife Manju K. Nair; Brig P.K. Sunil Kumar, Deputy Director General of National Cadet Corps (NCC) Directorate, Kerala and Lakshadweep; Col. Dhirendra Kumar, Principal, Sainik School, Kazhakuttam; officers; staff members; and cadets of the school as well as the NCC Directorate were present. The cadets presented a guard of honour. This was followed by singing of patriotic songs. The function was organised as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. A decorated soldier, Col. Nair had received the Kirti Chakra in recognition of his exceptional gallantry in 1984. He was also awarded the Ashok Chakra posthumously on January 26, 1994.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sainik-school-pays-tribute-to-col-nj-nair/article36850920.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NSO resumes surveys in capital||The National Statistical Office (NSO), Field Operations Division, under the Ministry of Statistics Programme Implementation has resumed field surveys in the State adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. The NSO is at present conducting three major household surveys throughout the district. Sunita Bhaskar, Deputy Director General, National Statistical Office, Thiruvananthapuram, urged the public to provide objective information and cooperation with the surveys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nso-resumes-surveys-in-capital/article36850921.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KTU forms innovation industry council||An innovation industry council will be set up by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) to link engineering education with industry and to diversify it. The council will be headed by Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre Director (VSSC) S. Somanath and will comprise technical experts and prominent people from the industry. The Syndicate, presided over by Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree, decided to set up the council and appeal to the government to amend the university Act to confer statutory powers of university academic and research councils to the industry council too. Focus on jobs The primary objective of the council is to analyse the State’s engineering curriculum and learning processes and bring about changes, thereby making the courses more job-oriented. The council will give directions on internships that equip engineering students with skills and expertise to land jobs in related sectors as soon as they graduate and steps to make more subjects part of the curriculum. It will also intervene to formulate job-oriented courses that will help develop a society with a scientific bent of mind; examine any lacunae in the current courses and to make them up to date; ensure opportunities for training students in areas such as skill development, start-ups, and entrepreneurship; set up labs in colleges with industry support; and make available to students the skills and expertise of prominent names in the industrial sector. Probe into valuation The Syndicate entrusted a two-member committee, comprising Pro Vice Chancellor S. Ayoob and examination subcommittee convener C. Satheesh Kumar, with an inquiry into complaints related to valuation of Structural Analysis paper of seventh-semester BTech Civil Engineering and submit a report. The Syndicate’s academic subcommittee was asked to look into the Comptroller and Auditor General report on teacher promotion in affiliated colleges against the backdrop of the All India Council for Technical Education regulations and submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-link-industry-engineering-education/article36850602.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clear plaints to grievance cell in 15 days: CM||Complaints submitted to the Chief Minister’s public grievance redressal cell should be disposed of within 15 days, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a new rating system for the grievance redressal cell here on Tuesday. He said that right and timely decisions should be made on the complaints. The complainants should be informed about the action taken. People submit complaints when there is no other way to resolve an issue. Such complaints should be approached with compassion. An official will be given the responsibility of grievance redressal in each office. The official’s name has to be displayed in the offices. Those who submitted complaints should be able to communicate with this official. An overview meeting with the department heads have to be held every month, said the Chief Minister. Relief funds He said that the distress relief funds are provided as an immediate relief. Hence, this has to be provided at the earliest. The Revenue Principal Secretary has been given the responsibility of clearing the pending applications on a war footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clear-plaints-to-grievance-cell-in-15-days-cm/article36850927.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to get Rs. 4,395 cr. as GST compensation||The Centre owes the State a sizeable amount by way of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation, Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal informed the Assembly on Tuesday. The State is owed Rs. 1,473.34 crore as balance amount in the compensation payment for the 2020-21 fiscal and Rs. 2,921.84 crore for 2021-22 (till August), the Minister said in a written reply to the House. During 2020-21, the State was entitled to Rs. 12,144.85 crore as GST compensation, which indicates the amount paid by the Centre to States to make up for shortfalls in GST collection. However, the State received only Rs. 10,671.51 crore that year. During 2021-22 (till August), the State was entitled to Rs. 7,044.11 crore, against which it received Rs. 4,122.27 crore, show figures tabled in the Assembly. Ever since the GST rollout, 2019-20 was the only year that the State received an excess amount by way of GST compensation. That year, the State received Rs. 11.4 crore in excess under this head. According to the data, the State received Rs. 2,102 crore as GST compensation in 2017-18, Rs. 3,532 crore in 2018-19, Rs. 8,111 crore in 2019-20, Rs. 10,671.51 crore in 2020-21 and Rs. 4,122.27 crore (till August) in 2021-22. Bills tabled The Kerala Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, Kerala General Sales Tax (Amendment) Bill, and the Kerala Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill were tabled in the Assembly on Tuesday. They have been referred to the subject committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-get-rs-4395-cr-as-gst-compensation/article36850613.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case pool drops further||The State registered 9,735 cases when 93,202 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool declined significantly from 1,28,736 patients on Monday to 1,24,441 patients on Tuesday, with 13,878 recovering from the disease. Only 11.1 % of the active cases are in hospitals or first-line/second line-treatment centres. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 25,677 with the State adding 151 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the toll on Tuesday. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients was 1,827 on Tuesday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support went down from 792 to 775. The cumulative case burden now stands at 47,38,791 cases. Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 1,367, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,156, Ernakulam 1,099, Kottayam 806, Palakkad 768, Kollam 755, Kozhikode 688, Malappuram 686, Kannur 563, Alappuzha 519, Pathanamthitta 514, Idukki 374, Wayanad 290, and Kasaragod 150.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-pool-drops-further/article36850616.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District posts 1,156 cases||The district logged 1,156 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 15,196. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 10.2%. In all, 1,948 persons recovered from the infection on the day, the district administration said. As many as 40,284 people are in quarantine in the district, including 1,446 people who were asked to undergo quarantine on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-posts-1156-cases/article36850918.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First vaccine dose for all by Oct. end||The State is carrying on with COVID-19 vaccination at a good pace and expects to complete the coverage of all persons above 18 years with the first dose by October end. By January next year, the entire population above 18 years should be fully vaccinated, it is hoped, Health Minister Veena George said in the Assembly on Tuesday. She was replying to a calling attention motion on COVID vaccination, raised by A.N. Shamseer. Ms. George said the COVID vaccination rate in the State was much above the national average and this had been achieved through campaigns addressing priority populations as well as through systematic vaccination camps across districts. In the government sector alone, over 1,200 vaccination centres were functioning. Health workers were now personally meeting those showing vaccine hesitancy and persuading them to get vaccinated, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-vaccine-dose-for-all-by-oct-end/article36850619.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mill staff begin relay protest||Employees of the Vijayamohini Mills began a two-day relay protest in front of the GPO on Tuesday demanding reopening of the mill, which is under the control of the National Textile Corporation (NTC). The Vijayamohini Mills as well as four other mills of the NTC in the State have remained closed for the past 19 months, with temporary staff laid off and permanent staff not getting their salaries. The employees have been protesting in front of the mills for the past several months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vijayamohini-mills-staff-on-relay-protest/article36850590.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Draft power tariff norms not against govt. policies’||The draft regulations for determining power tariffs published by the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) neither contradicts State Government policies nor does it support privatisation of the power sector, Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty informed the Assembly on Tuesday. The Minister's remarks on the draft KSERC (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff) Regulations, 2021 refute the stand taken by the State-run Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), which had formally objected to several of the draft proposals, and power sector unions that allege that the draft encourages privatisation policies. In written replies to the Assembly, Mr. Krishnankutty said the draft does not contain any provision that adversely impacts the KSEB or threatens its existence. Mr. Krishnankutty supported the draft proposal to introduce non-uniform retail supply tariffs for consumer categories under different distribution licencees. He said it would attract industrial investments to the State. The provision is aimed at the development of industrial parks and increasing job opportunities and the State's tax revenues, he said. The KSEB, during a public hearing organised by the commission last month had opposed this proposal saying non-uniform retail tariffs will harm the cross-subsidy mechanism and, ultimately, trigger power tariff hikes. Best interests Further, Mr. Krishnankutty said his department has not noticed any provision that assures a higher share of profit to the private sector. The KSERC will keep the best interests of the electricity consumers and the distribution licensees in mind in finalising the draft, the Minister added. The commission had published the draft, which lists the guidelines for fixing the tariffs for five years from 2022-23, on August 6. A public hearing was held on September 15 where the KSEB and power sector employees' organisations backed by the CITU and the INTUC had strongly opposed the proposals. Several of the proposals are open to misuse and could push the KSEB into court cases at a later stage, the KSEB had noted at the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-power-norms-not-against-policies-minister/article36850759.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Landslips in forest: people asked to remain alert||Heavy rainfall in the eastern parts of the district is believed to have caused landslips in the forests around Ponmudi. No casualties or damage to property were reported, police officials in Palode and Vithura said. The police have asked people residing on the banks of the Vamanapuram river to remain alert as the water level rose abruptly towards evening. Landslips were suspected to have occurred inside the forest, the police said, citing Forest Department officials. Trees uprooted The heavy rain also brought down trees in several places in the region on Tuesday evening, blocking traffic. Several areas also reported power outages. Parts of Thiruvananthapuram district received steady rainfall on Tuesday. Rain to subside Forecasts by India Meteorological Department indicated that rainfall would decrease in the district in the days ahead. The district can expect light to moderate rainfall till October 9, as per the latest update.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-in-forest-people-asked-to-remain-alert/article36850928.ece
06 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSU postings via recruitment board from Nov.||The appointments in public sector units will be brought under the proposed recruitment board for PSUs from November this year, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve informed the Assembly on Tuesday. The draft regulations had been vetted by departments and would soon come up for the consideration of the Cabinet. All appointments of a permanent nature in State-run PSUs, now carried out through different routes, would be handled by the board, he said. The Industries Department had constituted a panel headed by a retired High Court judge for the selection of managing directors of PSUs. The Government would soon roll out a project for start-ups in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors, Mr. Rajeeve said. “At present, all start-ups are connected to the IT sector,” he said. The Industries Department would also come out with a uniform land allotment policy for industrial parks. The policy, whose draft is ready, sought quicker resolutions to land-related disputes. The department was also taking steps to allot land to investors without any delays, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psu-postings-via-recruitment-board-from-nov/article36850612.ece
06 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Focus more on research, says Governor||Universities should focus more on research activities. The pandemic has taught vital lessons to the health sector, reminding one of the need for a ‘research culture’ in institutions. Such a culture can develop only when research and innovation go hand in hand, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. He was addressing the 14th convocation ceremony of the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) here on Tuesday. “Let our research be aimed at One Health, the approach that recognises that the health of humans is closely connected to the health of animals and our shared environment. Our universities and their graduates need to think several years ahead and prepare for the future by leveraging the latest technologies and, most importantly, balancing their intelligence as well as emotional quotients,” said Mr. Khan. “I am happy that this university has initiated collaborative research with Kerala Agricultural University, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University and also with foreign universities to seek broader solutions to health issues,” he said.  Appreciating the graduates for their support in the university’s campaign against dowry, he highlighted the need for orientation of the youth in relation to interpersonal relations for a healthier life. 14,229 graduate In all, 14,229 students from various colleges of medicine, dental science, Ayurveda, homeopathy, siddha, nursing, pharmacy and allied health sciences under the KUHS were presented with degrees. KUHS Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal, Pro VC C.P. Vijayan, Registrar A.K. Manoj Kumar and others participated. As per the COVID-19 protocol, only a few students participated in the event. Others participated virtually.  The Governor appreciates the graduates for their support in the university’s campaign against dowry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-more-on-research-says-governor/article36850753.ece
06 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||One held for bomb hoax at Thrissur Collectorate||One person was arrested on Tuesday in connection with a hoax threat call claiming that a bomb will be planted at the Thrissur Collectorate. The police arrested Sajeevan, 51, of Akkikkavu forom making the hoax call. According to the police, he made the call under the influence of alcohol. He made a call on Monday night to the control room at Thiruvananthapuram that a petrol bomb will be planted in the Thrissur Collectorate. The cyber cell tracked the call to Nenmeni and the police arrested Sajeevan from his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-bomb-hoax-at-thrissur-collectorate/article36850672.ece
06 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Medicos attend convocation in traditional attire||Shunning western robes, young doctors attended the convocation ceremony at the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) here on Tuesday in traditional Kerala attire. The main attraction of the ceremony, held by maintaining COVID-19 protocols, turned out to be the dress code of the graduates. No-dowry declaration Expressing solidarity with the youngsters, Chancellor and Governor Arif Mohmmed Khan and Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal too arrived in traditional mundu and kurtha for the 14th convocation ceremony of the KUHS. The event witnessed another historical moment when all the 63,900 students of various colleges under the KUHS handed over a no-dowry declaration to the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-attend-convocation-in-traditional-attire/article36850754.ece
06 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Winners of I-T dept. essay contest||The Income Tax (I-T) Department, Thrissur, conducted an essay contest for students as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ programme. Balaji Sreeram won the first prize in the Higher Secondary category. In the college category, Lakshmi Priya came first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/winners-of-i-t-dept-essay-contest/article36850673.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For the farmers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-the-farmers/article36850550.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road to nature’s beauties||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-to-natures-beauties/article36850604.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For fair roads||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-fair-roads/article36850675.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rice and shine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rice-and-shine/article36850756.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-duty/article36850618.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Blatant violation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blatant-violation/article36850864.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Navaratri idols in city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navaratri-idols-in-city/article36850923.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Calling attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calling-attention/article36850930.ece
06 October 2021||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundnut crop fails due to rain deficit in Anantapur||At a time when many of the central coastal and north coastal districts experienced heavy rainfall leading to inundation of crops, severe deficit rainfall in Anantapur during August and September led to the failure of groundnut crop in thousands of acres, which the State government is yet to assess. As per the rainfall data provided by the district administration, against a normal 118.4 mm expected rainfall for September only 45.8 mm was received till September 30 registering a -61.3% deficit. During August this year against a normal rain of 88.7 mm only 71.5 mm was received recording a -19.4 deficit. For the entire kharif season from June 1 till September 30, against a normal of 338.4 mm the district received 344.4 mm registering 1.8% excess, but a large gap of close to 50 days between two wet spells led to all the damage, according to farmers. During September last year (2020), there was 100% excess rainfall and for the same period, there was 67% excess rainfall. Ironically, till Thursday, the e-crop booking process has not been completed in the district to come to an assessment as to how many acres of groundnut was actually sown. Only 30% of the area has been verified to ascertain if the crop was really sown by the farmer who had done e-crop booking. The 90-day-old crop of Thimappa at Gangalakunta in Rapthadu mandal in the district had good growth till last month, but when it was time for pod formation it did not rain leading to the withering of the crop and insufficient development of seeds in the pod. A visit by The Hindu to the 5-acre farm of Thimappa, whose two sons have been taking care of the agricultural activities, has revealed that there was no source of water nearby and no rain for more than 52 days. ‘No response from govt.’ Mr. Thimappa along with a couple of farmers represented to the State government through the Agriculture Department, but has not received any help yet. He invested more than Rs. 1.4 lakh on the farm and does not expect any return but for the Rs. 13,500 Rythu Bharosa amount given by the State government. A contrasting scenario was witnessed in the Kadiri region, which received excess rainfall and flooding in July and August/September leading to severe damage to the groundnut crop in three to four mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groundnut-crop-fails-due-to-rain-deficit-in-anantapur/article36850660.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Cabinet panel to study Bababudangiri shrine issue||In the wake of the High Court of Karnataka quashing the State Government’s earlier order appointing a Mujawar to perform religious practices at Sree Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru, the Cabinet on Tuesday decided to form a sub-committee to study the pros and cons of the court ruling and find out ways to proceed further on the issue. At a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, it was decided to form a panel headed by Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar, Religious Endowment and Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle, and Revenue Minister R. Ashok are the other members. The committee will study the court ruling and discuss if there is a need for filing an affidavit in the court, Mr. Madhuswamy told reporters after the Cabinet meeting. A few days ago, the HC had directed the State Government to reconsider its decision on religious practices in the cave shrine. The court quashed a March 19, 2018, order permitting only a Mujawar, appointed by Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Shah Khadri, to enter the sanctum of the cave and to distribute “teertha” to both Hindus and Muslims. Sugar factory A decision was also taken to form a Cabinet sub-committee to study the reopening of Mandya Sugar Factory. The panel will study issues related to the operation and maintenance of the factory by the government and on handing over the factory to a private firm on lease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cabinet-panel-to-study-bababudangiri-shrine-issue/article36850352.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only 500 people can attend Jamboo Savari||For combating COVID-19 during Dasara festivities, the Karnataka Government has came out with a set of guidelines, by limiting the number of people to 500 for cultural programmes, including Jamboo Savari, in Mysuru, to be held between October 7 and 15. Only 100 people, including the Chief Minister, dignitaries, officials, and media personnel, will be allowed at the inauguration of the Dasara at Chamundi Hills on October 7. Not more than 400 people will be allowed to participate in Dasara programmes in other parts of the State, the guidelines said. One dose of COVID-19 vaccination and RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for all officials, police, and artists participating in cultural shows and presspersons for attending the Dasara festival. The guidelines issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar has made mandatory wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and use of sanitisers at the cultural programmes held in front of the Mysuru palace and other parts of the State. For the benefit of the public, arrangements have been made for virtual viewing of the programmes of Mysuru Dasara. The cultural programmes would be held from October 7 to 15 in front of the palace for two hours in the evening. Local artists will be encouraged to participate in the programmes. The prominent places in Mysuru city will be beautified with illumination from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. from October 7 to 15, the guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-500-people-can-attend-jamboo-savari/article36850353.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||People paid for treatment despite PM-JAY||A study on the efficacy of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY scheme) in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu has found that a sizeable population covered under the programme bore hospitalisation expenses for COVID-19 treatment from personal funds or borrowings. As of August 2021, an estimated 85% of the 26 crore population in the four States (over 20 crore) is covered under the scheme. In Tamil Nadu as much as 98% of the population, and in Kerala 58% of the eligible population, is covered. Also, in the four States, around 95 lakh beneficiaries are authorised for hospital admission under the scheme. From personal savings While so far 18 lakh people have been hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment, around 85% of them (over 10 lakh) have paid for their hospitalisation from personal savings or borrowed money. Of the 3.16 lakh PM-JAY beneficiaries treated for COVID-19 so far in the States under review, 1.54 lakh were in Andhra Pradesh and 1.62 lakh in Karnataka. In Tamil Nadu, of the 4 lakh people estimated to have been hospitalised for COVID-19, only 10,377 people, and in Kerala, of the 7 lakh people estimated to have been hospitalised for COVID-19, only 34,755 were treated under the PM-JAY scheme. An estimated 6+ lakh COVID-19 patients in Kerala and 3+ lakh patients in Tamil Nadu had to fund the hospitalisation through personal savings or borrowings. While 12% of the beneficiaries in Andhra Pradesh had availed themselves of hospitalisation benefits under the scheme, in Tamil Nadu only 0.3% had benefited. In 450 days, as many as 1,12,638 people died of COVID-19. Karnataka recorded the highest number of deaths at 37,797. Andhra Pradesh recorded the lowest at 14,176, which the study attributed to “excellent clinical management strategy”. In Tamil Nadu, 35,578 people died; and in Kerala, 25,087 succumbed to the infection. Two hospitals in urban Bengaluru, Victoria Hospital, and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, saved a large number of uninsured middle-income COVID-19 patients, but public heart hospitals were approximately three times costlier than private for-profit hospitals, the study said. According to the study, Andhra Pradesh’s private hospitals empanelled in the scheme had “offered fair value for the services” and thus achieved the least death per million (of 168), as compared to Kerala (751), Karnataka (619), and Tamil Nadu (493). Poor response In Tamil Nadu, there was poor response from private hospitals in treating PM-JAY beneficiaries. The study concluded that Tamil Nadu’s decision to conduct 100% RT-PCR tests for COVID-19 had immensely benefited private labs with 15 of the top 25 empanelled hospitals that received the highest number of authorisations for treatment under the scheme being testing laboratories. In Karnataka, except for Bengaluru Urban, other districts appeared to be relatively successful in getting the PM-JAY benefits to the poor. In Kerala, the scheme had been extensively used to treat over 25 lakh beneficiaries, and 16 of the 25 COVID-19 designated hospitals treated 7.82 lakh beneficiaries. However, only 34,755 people were reported as COVID-19 cases, the study found. The study project, Jeevan Raksha, was technically supported and guided by the Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-paid-for-treatment-despite-pm-jay/article36850345.ece
06 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger hunt: Forest Dept. told not to go for the kill immediately||“Don't go for the kill immediately. It may not be a man-eater,” said Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee, reacting to a case filed against the Forest Department’s decision to hunt a 12-year-old tiger, code-named MDT 23, which is suspected to be on a killing spree involving humans and livestock in the Nilgiris district. Presiding over the First Division Bench along with Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, the Chief Justice said the tiger might have been misunderstood as a habitual man-eater because of a few lethal chance encounters with humans in the forest. ‘Make efforts’ He insisted on making efforts to capture it alive. Passing interim orders on a public interest litigation petition filed by People for Cattle in India, the Bench directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) to ensure that the least possible number of people entered the forest to capture MDT 23, without disturbing the natural habitat. The judges said a heavy human population might cause disturbance to wild animals. The Bench suggested that discreet measures could be employed with the objective of “ultimately seeking the animal and respecting it’s right to remain in the wild and roam freely in the forest.” The judges also called for a status report from the PCCF after October 19. In a report submitted on Tuesday, the officer said the hunt order was issued to pacify residents who indulged in protests after the animal began killing humans. He said the term ‘hunt’ included trapping, capturing and shooting only in unavoidable circumstances. It was brought to the notice of the court that tiger MDT 23 was very elusive and was not giving any chance to the tracking team to tranquillize it. It had also been cleverly avoiding bait cages for several days. The PCCF said 20 darters from Tamil Nadu and Kerala had been deployed with nine tranquillizing guns. Qualified veterinarians, darting equipment, capturing equipment like net guns, pepper guns, drones and sniffer dogs had also been pressed into service for the critical operation. Listing the dates and events, the officer said MDT 23, of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, killed a woman in a tribal village in Singara on August 31, 2020. “Again, on July 19, 2021, a man was killed by this tiger in Mudukuzhi tribal village. The animal had killed about 20 [head of] cattle as of September 24,” the report said. Noting that the tiger was suffering from a small wound on its neck, which may have been caused during a fight with other tigers inside the forest, the PCCF said that therefore, MDT 23 had been moving along the edges of the forest in fear, and killing nearby cattle and herdsmen. On September 24, the tiger killed a person who was grazing cattle in Devan Estate under the Gudalur forest division. A team comprising veterinarians and tiger trackers rushed to the spot and commenced a search operation by installing camera traps. “The images captured by these cameras suggested that tiger MDT 23 was on the move in these locations...Since no other tiger image was recorded, it is concluded that the man may have been killed by the MDT 23 tiger. An intensive search was carried out with no results,” the report said. On September 25, the tracking team located the tiger inside a swamp in the estate. Veterinary teams were immediately deployed around the swamp. While the work was in progress, the Forest Department received information that the tiger came out of the swamp at 2 p.m. and killed a cow that was grazing nearby. The tracking team reached that spot with a cage and a carcass to trap the tiger. On September 26, the team inspected the cage and found that the animal had avoided it. An intensive search confirmed that the tiger was still in the swamp. Hence, a calf and a goat were brought in as bait. Veterinarians were seated on machans (wooden platforms on trees) with dart guns to tranquillize the tiger. To the surprise of the entire team, the tiger left the swamp stealthily and entered the nearby Mayfield Estate, where it killed a cow before going into a bush located 300 metres away. The tracking team placed an iron cage near the dead cow, and two veterinarians hid inside the cage with dart guns. A group of trackers approached the bush and heard the tiger roar. Around 7 p.m., the tiger emerged from the bush, but did not advance towards the dead cow. “The doctors and the team waited throughout the night, anticipating that the tiger will come to eat the carcass, but in vain,” the PCCF said. On September 27, the tracking team searched the entire area and found the tiger’s pugmarks in a swamp below the bushes. Dragging marks of a cow were also found, suggesting that the tiger had killed one more cow and that was why it didn’t return to the carcass on the previous day. On the same day, an expert team from the Wayanad Sanctuary in Kerala also arrived on request and joined the search. Two drones were used to monitor the tiger’s movements in nearby plantations, while the tracking teams continued to search for the animal inside the swamp. Suddenly, the tiger came out of the swamp and leaped towards the top of the hill in the estate. “While the team was running behind the tiger, drones were also sent, and they confirmed that it entered the bushes at the hilltop...but the sun set and the search was suspended considering the safety of the team,” the report said. On September 28, the tracking team approached the bush and found that the tiger had gone back to the swamp at night, eaten the carcass of the cow and dragged it into the bush. The team immediately surrounded the swamp and was waiting to tranquillize the tiger. “After about four hours, the tiger came out of the swamp. A doctor fired a dart gun, but the dart missed the target as it was deflected by the bushes. The tiger ran towards another tea estate and disappeared into the bushes,” the PCCF said. Since there was a heavy downpour that day, and it had also became dark, the search was suspended. On September 29, the tracking team followed the pugmarks, which led to Devan Estate, where a carcass of a cow had been kept. However, the tiger avoided entering the cage and returned to the forest. The tiger was spotted using drones, but it went deep into the dense jungle. Since the team lost daylight, it retreated to the base, leaving a cage with a calf on one side of the hill and another cage with a goat on the other side. On September 30, the team entered the forest and searched for pugmarks, but no fresh prints could be traced. The tiger had not even gone near the cages. The search operation on that day, too, did not bring the desired results due to bad weather and loss of sunlight. On October 1, the tiger was spotted at Masinagudi. Meanwhile, the officials received information that the tiger, while on its way out of the forest, had killed 51-year-old Basuvan when he was grazing cattle. It had dragged his body into a bush and had eaten some meat from the body. When the tracking team approached it, the tiger left the place and crossed the Masanagudi-Theppakkadu Road. “Since then, several measures, including the use of sniffer dogs and kumki elephants, have been taken to catch the tiger, but it remains elusive,” the report said.   The Bench suggested that discreet measures could be employed with the objective of “ultimately seeking the animal and respecting it’s right to remain in the wild and roam freely in the forest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-hunt-cj-tells-forest-dept-not-to-go-for-the-kill-immediately/article36850447.ece
06 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Needle of suspicion in drugs scandal points to Naidu’||Terming the allegations made by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders in the drugs scandal as baseless, Adviser (Public Affairs) to the government, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said the opposition party is trying to plant “mindless stories” to irk the government. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed the opposition leaders for trying to link the scandal unearthed at the Mundra port to Andhra Pradesh despite the State government denying it. “It has become a routine for the opposition party to make allegations against the State government. In fact, the needle of suspicion points to TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son N. Lokesh, who have a history of hoarding money abroad. Since Mr. Lokesh is on a secret trip to Dubai, there arises doubt arises on Mr. Naidu’s family entering the drug business,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said investigation was still going on and the Central agencies would reveal the culprits soon. “Unlike the previous government, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been against the cultivation and supply of ganja. Constitution of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) is a step in that direction. Since its formation, almost 2.50 lakh kg ganja has been seized by the SEB personnel. The previous government had failed miserably to control it,” he said. Responding to the TDP’s allegations pertaining to the Pandora papers, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said a person named Alisha was an acquaintance of Mr. Naidu and TDP leader Ganta Srinivasa Rao. Pandora papers “Mr. Naidu has been criticising the Chief Minister with Wikileaks, Paradise Papers, Panama Papers and now Pandora Papers just to defame him,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged. He further alleged that the name of an independent director of Heritage Company was mentioned in the Panama Papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/needle-of-suspicion-in-drugs-scandal-points-to-naidu/article36850662.ece
06 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons held for peddling ganja||The Guntur Urban Police on Tuesday took four persons into custody at Vaddeswaram village in Tadepalli mandal on charges of peddling ganja. Police seized 1.5 kg of ganja and a two-wheeler. Superintendent of Police K. Arif Hafeez said that the special drive on smuggling of ganja and liquor would continue. Zero tolerance Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday warned of zero tolerance for ganja and drug peddling in colleges and universities, and asked police to map vulnerable areas. The four persons arrested on Tuesday were identified as Surapureddy Govinda Reddy (26), Vemula Varun Teja (20), Gudavalli Siva Kumar (24) and Kanyakapuram Gopi (23), and seized 1.5 kg of ganja and a motorcycle and booked cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Pscyhotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-held-for-peddling-ganja/article36850402.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Andhra Pradesh’s plan to divert river water is untenable’||Telangana has termed the request of Andhra Pradesh for diversion of additional 2 tmc ft of water from Tungabhadra Dam to the TBP-Right Bank High Level Canal (HLC) as “untenable and against the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I award and would be detrimental to the requirements of Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) already getting deficit flows. In a letter addressed to the Secretary of Tungabhadra Board, Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) of Telangana C. Muralidhar said on Tuesday that utilisation of Krishna water for Kurnool-Cuddapah (KC) Canal from Srisailam reservoir by A.P. for diversion of another 2 tmc ft water to HLC from Tungabhadra dam, in addition 2 tmc ft water already being diverted, is not agreeable to Telangana till RDS gets its quota. Against the allocation of 15.9 tmc ft water to RDS (Telangana), the maximum volume of water reaching the ayacut in Jogulamba-Gadwal district is not going beyond 5-6 tmc ft even in the best case scenario, although A.P. has been drawing water indiscriminately from Srisailam without any allocations and approvals. KWDT-I ruling The ENC pointed out that KWDT-I had imposed restrictions on A.P. and Karnataka on the utilisation of water in Tungabhadra Sub-Basin and held that Tungabhadra river shall contribute substantial flows to the main stream of Krishna river for utilisation of downstream projects. Contrary to the view of KWDT-I, A.P. had been using Tungabhadra river flows and regulated releases from Tungabhadra dam to KC Canal. In addition, A.P. was also drawing water to KC Canal from three unauthorised sources — from escape channel at Banakacherla cross regulator, from Muchumarri lift scheme and from Malyala pumping station, all drawing water from Srisailam — and diverting regulated releases meant for KC Canal to HLC from Tungabhadra dam. “The practice of shifting drawals of KC Canal from Tungabhadra to Krishna river by A.P. is not only in violation of KWDT-I but also affecting the interests of Telangana (a lower riparian State) and the clauses cited by A.P. are not valid,” the ENC explained to the TB Board Secretary. The TB Board must know that Telangana was not getting even 5 tmc ft water from RDS against its protected quantity of 15.9 tmc ft as the damaged shutters of river sluices and construction of sluices in the body wall of RDS anicut were affecting level build-up to allow required head for canal towards Telangana. RDS modernisation Keeping such reasons in mind, the Tungabhadra Board has fixed 5.157 tmc ft on pro-rata basis to RDS (Telangana) for 2020-21 water year but the volume realised by Telangana was only 1.182 tmc ft. Regulated releases to RDS during the lean period (November-May) is not being realised in RDS Canal due to delay in modernisation of the anicut and reaching Sunkesula for use of KC Canal. The ENC requested the Secretary Tungabhadra Board to complete modernisation works at the earliest so that Telangana is allowed required flows for utilisation of allocated water for RDS Canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradeshs-plan-to-divert-river-water-is-untenable/article36850343.ece
06 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Architecture varsity keeps fingers crossed ahead of admissions||With the counselling for admissions for the 2021-22 academic year all set to begin this week, Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University (YSRAFU) is expecting to cover the ground it had lost to COVID-19 last year, which sadly was its very first academic year. The university that had come into being in 2020 was in for a big disappointment when the pandemic struck its first academic year, gobbling up precious time and resources. “Despite offering remunerative and industry-relevant courses, there were not many takers last year, as the COVID-19 eclipsed our presence,” says Vice-Chancellor D. Vijay Kishore. ‘Industry-relevant courses’ In an interview to The Hindu , Prof. Vijay Kishore called architecture the preferred engineering stream, with the MNCs ready to rope in graduates with attractive packages. Dealing with design of heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), electrical and plumbing design, lifts, fire safety and green energy, it offers scope for research on energy management, building science engineering, renewable energy, automation engineering and so on. The four-year B.Tech (Town Planning), said to be the most sought-after in the government sector, helps the students gain expertise in civil engineering, urban design, sociology, geography and address the community-level issues. Digital Techniques for Design and Planning (DTD) is a course that brings together four disciplines such as IT, design, Geographical Information System (GIS) and multimedia, which includes programming languages such as Python, C, Java, Unix, and Shell, and IT subjects such as cyber laws, web technologies and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Similarly, Game Design and Technologies (GDT) looks beyond entertainment to amplify one’s creativity and IQ. Students learning Blender, Unity, Photoshop, VFX, Character Rigging, Maya, Augmented Reality / Virtual Reality (AR / VR) are in great demand in IT, gaming, animation and film industry, where they draw pay on hourly basis. With organised construction still in a nascent stage, the Construction Technology Management (CTM) course teaches a student the industry’s burgeoning needs such as contracting, risk analysis, project management and Six Sigma. Besides, modern innovations such as sensors and drone technology are taught for design optimisation, risk assessment and predictive logistics. The university chipped in only during the second counselling last year and got 40% admissions. “We are in an advantageous position now and hope to get all our seats filled,” Prof. Kishore exudes confidence.  We are in an advantageous position now and hope to get all our seats filled this year D. Vijay Kishore Vice-Chancellor, Dr. YSRAFU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/architecture-varsity-keeps-fingers-crossed-ahead-of-admissions/article36850657.ece
06 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidate Sudha files papers for Badvel bypoll||YSRCP candidate Dasari Sudha, the widow of former MLA Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah, submitted her nomination papers for the bypoll to Badvel Assembly constituency to Returning Officer Ketan Garg on Tuesday. The ruling party leaders, who were initially buoyed with the likelihood of the election going unanimous, are making quick decisions to ensure a huge margin for the party candidate. Minister for Mines and Geology Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy is leading the campaign team from the party, with the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy hinting at the need to ensure a minimum victory margin of 45,000 votes. The TDP was the first to opt out of the race citing propriety, as it had always done in favour of the kin of deceased incumbents in fray. The BJP– Jana Sena combine is yet to come to terms with the confusion prevailing in the alliance, with the former sticking to its stand to be in the fray, though the Jana Sena has announced to stay away. Having received four applications for the seat, the BJP is learnt to be analysing the candidates’ socio-economic profile and winnability. The Congress will field former MLA P.M. Kamalamma. APCC president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday said that a decision to this effect was taken by the All-India Congress Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-candidate-sudha-files-papers-for-badvel-bypoll/article36850665.ece
06 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polytechnic college building inaugurated||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday inaugurated various developmental projects including the a building for Government Polytechnic College built at Rs. 7.7 crore in Pithapuram town of East Godavari district. Accompanied by Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy laid a foundation stone for the Government Degree College building proposed at the cost of Rs. 1.5 crore in Pithapuram town. Village secretariat The Ministers inaugurated a village secretariat at Gollaprolu, a Rythu Bharosa Kendra and a Y.S.R. Village Clinic in the Pithapuram Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polytechnic-college-building-inaugurated/article36850699.ece
06 October 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeds of invasive species dispersed||A recent study has revealed that native mammals disperse the highly invasive Senna sepctabilis in the Western Ghats. The plant is posing a serious threat to the wildlife habitat in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary as well as the adjacent Bandipur and Mudumalai Tiger Reserves in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The study, carried out by the Ashoka Trust for Research on Ecology and Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru and the Ferns Nature Conservation Society, Mananthavady, in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, found that mammals such as Asian elephants, chital and the Indian-crested porcupine were dispersing seeds of this tree. The study was published in a recent edition of the international journal Biotropica . The study was carried out by analysing the faecal samples of wild animals and livestock, collected from the sanctuary. The researchers found that native wide-ranging animals, especially elephants, are capable of dispersing seeds over long distances. The study warns of seed dispersal by such animals facilitating the fast spread of this species to large areas in forest landscapes. Major drivers “The nutrient content, taste and smell of the pods might have been the major drivers attracting the herbivores,” N.R. Anoop, research scholar, ATREE, who led the team, said. “As a single seed pod of the plant contains more than a hundred of seeds, a single mature tree could produce more than a lakh of seeds a year,” Mr. Anoop said. The invasive plant is spreading rapidly in the sanctuary and it suppresses the natural growth of other plants. A very large portion of the sanctuary and adjacent tiger reserves are densely covered by this species now. “Interestingly, this species suppresses the growth of other invasive species like lantana and eupatorium” P.A. Vinayan, a member of the team, said. “As large mammals like elephants are involved in the seed dispersal of this tree, we should very soon expect its invasion to the wet forests, which hold very rich plant diversity in the Western Ghats,” Mr. Vinayan, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeds-of-invasive-species-dispersed/article36850342.ece
06 October 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Muslim woman who paints Krishna||Krishna is a deity who, for believers, emulates feelings of friendship, fondness and love alike. For Jasna Saleem, a young woman from Koyilandy in Kozhikode, Krishna is synonymous with livelihood. “I am a Class 10 drop-out. If I have earned recognition today, it is only because of my Kannan,” Ms. Jasna said, with fondness and gratitude for the Hindu deity. Known for numerous Krishna portraits that adorn the walls of several temples and houses, Ms. Jasna is a faithful Muslim. It is the name ‘Kannan’ that connects Jasna with Krishna, for it was her nickname in childhood, too. “My family decided to call me ‘Kinnan’ as I used to throw around the kinnam (plate) at home, which later changed to ‘Kannan’,” Ms. Jasna explained. Ms. Jasna took a liking to a picture of little Krishna with laddoo s in his hand that she found somewhere. “Before drawing Krishna, I had not even drawn a map properly. I had no skills whatsoever. But somehow, Krishna turned out well,” she said. Later on, she shifted to the portrait of “little Krishna eating butter”, which earned her fame across the State. “I used to contribute Krishna paintings to the Guruvayur temple every year. Though I could not go inside, I used to hand them over to the security personnel and leave. But my friends and neighbours who returned from Guruvayur would often comment on my paintings, which they saw in the temple. I was elated,” she said. Later, the temple committee at Ulanadu Sreekrishna Swamy Temple at Pandalam invited her to reveal her painting before the deity. Ms. Jasna did initially have some opposition from her family and community for painting a Hindu deity, but this stopped as she gained recognition for her work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-muslim-woman-who-paints-krishna/article36850340.ece
06 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers stage dharna, dump onions on road in Kurnool||Onion farmers in Kurnool district converged at District Collector’s office here on Tuesday and dumped several bags of onion on the road in front of the entry gate protesting against the stoppage of market intervention by the State government. Farmers led by CITU State secretary M.A. Gafoor demanded immediate resumption of purchase of onions so that the farmers could retrieve at least their investment (input cost) for cultivating. With the government stopping purchase of onions for the past one month, the growers find themselves in a tight spot with none able to sell their produce. “The State government, by changing the eNAM(National Agriculture Market) rules, had been telling the farmers that it would help them sell their produce to traders in other States, but nothing came out of it. It is a loss for farmers,” Mr. Gafoor added. The State Ministers only give statements on TV channels but do not visit the fields of the farmers in the district to understand the problems of farmers and also hamalis, who are dependent on the sale of onions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-stage-dharna-dump-onions-on-road-in-kurnool/article36850653.ece
06 October 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youths drown in canal near Adoni||Three youth hailing from Jodhpur in Rajasthan who were working as labourers in the construction of a Jain temple in Chinnatumbalam village drowned in the Tungabhadra Low Level Canal, under the Peddatumbalam police station limits in Adoni mandal of the district on Monday night. Two bodies traced The police traced two bodies by Tuesday evening. The deceased were identified as Bhavani (19) and Vinod (28) and the missing person has been identified as Sunil (18). Search on Search is on for the third one. They were staying here for the past two years. A group of five friends went into the canal to swim and wash clothes late on Monday evening, after completing the day’s work at the temple. Sunil reportedly accidentally slipped into water that was flowing at great force and trying to save him, Bhavani too was drawn into that flow. In an attempt to rescue both of his friends, Vinod also got washed away, the police said. The remaining two persons immediately alerted the local people and the police personnel rushed to the spot||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-youths-drown-in-canal-near-adoni/article36850649.ece
06 October 2021||PATTIKONDA (KURNOOL DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP begins assessment of crop loss||The total extent of groundnut sown in four Rayalaseema districts has come down by 1,01,437 hectares due to unremunerative prices offered to the produce and vagaries of nature, but the YSR Congress Party government was not bothered to even assess the damage caused, said TDP leaders after launching a field survey in Pattikonda Assembly constituency in Kurnool district on Tuesday. While farmers in Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor and Kadapa districts had sown the crop in 7,29,377 hectares in 2020, it came down to 6,27,940 hectares in the current kharif season, said the party’s Kurnool district president Somisetty Venkateswarlu and Anantapur district president Kalava Srinivasulu, who jointly visited fields of four farmers in Jonnagiri, Pattikonda, and Maddikera. Telugu Desam Party Pattikonda In charge officer, who accompanied the team members, said the farmers in the constituency were the worst-affected. Narayana, a farmer in Jonnagiri and who had incurred huge losses this year, said he received no help from the government and that no agriculture department officer or village agriculture assistant visited his farm. “My e-crop booking is not verified yet, and if the government decides to pay compensation, how can I get help?,” said the farmer, who grows castor, cotton and groundnut in 10 acres. He told the TDP team that he had lost his crop last kharif too due to excess rainfall just before harvesting. This time, it was insufficient rain that damaged his crops. Similar was the fate of another farmer, Seshagiri Naganna, in Pattikonda, whose tomatoes and groundnut crops were wasted due to lack of rain. He lost groundnut last year and hoped that he would recover the loss this year, but he lost Rs. 50,000 in two acres again this time and could not retrieve even 50% of that from the sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-begins-assessment-of-crop-loss/article36850651.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monson’s ‘police and political connections’ rock Assembly||The financial “shenanigans” of “fake” antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal and his “high political and police connections” rocked the Kerala Assembly on Tuesday. The Opposition United Democratic Front walked out of the House, accusing the government of ignoring cautionary intelligence reports against Monson and providing “police cover” for his “illegal activities”. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the government should suspend from active duty the police officers who had aided Monson. He said the public had lost confidence in the State police after photographs of top officers accepting Monson’s “hospitality” surfaced in the media. The police had provided “beat patrol protection” to Monson’s collection of fake antiquities, thereby endorsing his false claims. Mr. Satheesan said the then State Police Chief Loknath Behera and Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham had visited Monson’s “museum”. Yet, no law enforcer asked Monson the provenance of the “relics” or whether he had a collector’s licence. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Mr. Behera had ordered an Intelligence investigation immediately after his visit to Monson’s museum and residence in December 2019. In 2020, the Special Branch reported that Monson’s activities were highly suspect and the artefacts he touted as historical relics were handcrafted cheap knock-offs. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Behera had duly forwarded the Intelligence report to the Enforcement Directorate. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Behera had gone to Monson’s house as a visitor and not for “treatment” as an “important personage” did. The comment was interpreted as an oblique reference to Congress State president K. Sudhakaran, who said he had consulted Monson as a stylist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monsons-police-and-political-connections-rock-assembly/article36850351.ece
06 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks ‘Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam’||‘Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam’ was performed on Tuesday at the temple of Lord Venkateswara amid religious ecstasy. The ritual was performed as a prelude to the annual Brahmotsavams scheduled to commence from October 7. All the idols of the ‘parivara’ deities were temporarily removed from the sanctum sanctorum, and the main deity was provided with a water-proof covering. A paste containing a mixture of sandalwood powder, refined camphor, high quality turmeric, vermilion and other herbal ingredients that act as a disinfectant was applied to all the walls, pillars and the roof inside the sanctum sanctorum and in various sub-temples existing within the main temple complex. Hundreds of employees headed by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy took part in the cleansing ritual that lasted for over four hours. The darshan lines that had been interrupted in the morning were restored soon after completion of the ritual. ‘Darbha’ mat Meanwhile, the mat and rope made out of the sacred ‘darbha’, a tropical grass scientifically known as Desmotachya bipinnata, was taken out in a grand procession and handed over to the temple authorities for use in the annual Brahmotsavams. While the mat is woven around the pedestal of the Dwajasthambam (flagpole) inside the temple, the rope is used in the hoisting of the temple flag as a part of the ‘Dwajarohanam’ on October 7 signalling the commencement of the nine-day festival. The forest workers had worked for over 10 days in making the mat measuring 7 metres in length and 2 metres in breadth and the 212-ft.-long rope using the ‘darbha’ that was specially sourced from Chellur village of Vadamalapeta mandal in Chittoor district. Special puja was performed to the materials at the forest office ahead of handing them over to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fervour-marks-koil-alwar-thirumanjanam/article36850664.ece
06 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Step up surveillance, night patrolling, SP tells personnel after 2 crimes in 2 days||The Tirupati Urban police on Tuesday iterated the need for residents to have the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) in place in view of the recent house break-in incidents in the temple city. At a meeting with Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsis (MSK), Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu asked them to keep a tab on the movement of strangers in their respective wards and villages. He also appealed to them to instil confidence in the public by staying in touch with women and emphasised the need for installing the LHMS for enhanced safety, apart from directing the sub divisional officials to step up surveillance and enhance patrolling during night times. On Sunday, a band of robbers, believed to be from the Chaddi gang from North India, broke into locked flats in apartment complexes. The CCTV system of an apartment in Vidya Nagar, falling under MR Palle police limits, showed the men break into a flat and steal four grams of gold. On finding nothing else, they made good their escape in no time. An apartment in Tiruchanur police limits witnessed a similar crime where 260 grams gold and 1.5 kg silver were stolen from the house of a railway employee. The police rushed to the spot with sniffer dogs and CLUES teams to gather evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/step-up-surveillance-night-patrolling-sp-tells-personnel-after-2-crimes-in-2-days/article36850654.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials inspect works for Dasara festivities||Krishna Collector J. Nivas on Tuesday said a helicopter ride would be a special attraction atop Indrakeeladri Hill during the Dasara festivities that will be held from October 7 to 15. The Collector, who inspected the arrangements being made for Dasara festivities at the temple and its vicinity, along with City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu and other officials, said people visiting the temple atop Indrakeeladri will have the opportunity of going on a helicopter ride that will give them a bird’s eye view of Vijayawada city. Mr. Nivas inspected the ongoing works to create queue lines from Vigneswara temple at Seetammavari Padalu, the parking lot for VIPs and other facilities to ensure smooth darshan for the devotees. He directed temple Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba and Vijayawada Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh to speed up the works at the queue lines, the prasadam counters, drinking water and other facilities. Police Commissioner Mr. Srinivasulu said 10,000 devotees would be allowed to the darshan of the Goddess at the temple on each of the nine days of the festivals. To regulate a smooth darshan, officials from the aligned departments of Revenue, Endowment, Irrigation, VMC and the Devasthanam had formed the utsav committee that will oversee the arrangements. “Besides, police pickets would be set up at bus and railway stations and at all major junctions. Special teams would be monitoring the situation round-the-clock,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Principal Secretary (Endowments) G. Vani Mohan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) K. Babu Rao, and Ms. Bhramaramba inspected the ongoing works at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-inspect-works-for-dasara-festivities/article36850400.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers under attack in YSRCP rule, says Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Tuesday alleged that the farmer was under attack in the YSR Congress Party rule. In a statement, Mr. Lokesh said instances of hapless farmers being harassed and attacked and their lands being grabbed were on the rise. He said the latest incident was that of Vema Reddy, a farmer from Rajupalem village in Hindupur Assembly constituency in Anantapur district, whose land was allegedly being targeted by a State Minister’s followers who used earthmovers to divert the canal water through Vema Reddy’s lands. The officials concerned, despite several complaints, had not taken heed, he said. Alleging that the farmer and his family were being subjected to constant harassment, Mr. Lokesh demanded immediate action against those responsible for it. He said Lakshmi Reddy, a farmer from Akkampalli in Anantapur district, and his family members attempted suicide for the same reason. The farmer’s family depended solely on the land that was being targeted by the ruling party leaders. “Lakshmi Reddy today lives in constant fear of encroachment of his land,” he said. The TDP leader alleged that the ruling party leaders were able to tamper with the records and create fake documents with the connivance of some of the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-under-attack-in-ysrcp-rule-says-lokesh/article36850948.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay pending MGNREGS bills with 12% interest, HC tells govt.||Justice B. Devanand of the A.P. High Court on Tuesday ruled that the petitioners who challenged the non-clearance of bills pertaining to the works executed prior to 2019 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) were entitled to interest at the rate of 12% payable within four weeks of receipt of the present order. Ordering that the interest should be computed from the date of expiry of one month from the date of submission of the bills till the date of final payments, Justice Devanand observed that though the MGNREG Act, 2005 provided for compensation to wage seekers at the rate of 0.05% of the unpaid wages per day of delay beyond the 16th day of closure of muster rolls (if the wages are not paid within 15 days), Parliament did not anticipate the prevalent situation insofar as the delays in making payments for material cost of the scheme including payment of wages to skilled and semi-skilled workers. It was hoped that the Centre took steps to incorporate relevant provisions under the Act to grant compensation for the delay in payment to the material costs of the scheme including payment of wages to skilled and semi-skilled workers . He said there were no enquiries pending and that the Centre had released its 75% share of funds, but the petitioners did not receive payments. As such, it was reasonable to compensate the petitioners for the loss caused to them . The State government had been unlawfully enjoying the Central funds without making payments to the petitioners, who were entitled for it and this amounted to “unjust enrichment”, the Judge added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-pending-mgnregs-bills-with-12-interest-hc-tells-govt/article36850667.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tika Express’ programme to maximise vaccine coverage||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has launched a week-long ‘Tika Express’ programme under which mobile vaccination centres will reach out to the public in targeted areas of the city, on Tuesday. VMC chief V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that the Tika Express vehicles were launched to reach out to the people in areas where there was poor vaccine coverage. He said vaccine coverage was poor in areas like Vambay Colony, Lambadipet, New RR Pet, Kothapeta, Christurajpuram, Bhimanavari Peta, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Patamata and other areas compared to other areas of the city. He said the mobile centres manned by ASHA workers and ANMs will reach out to people in these areas and administer vaccines to the beneficiaries. He asked the public to make use of the service and get vaccinated. The Tika Express service will be available till October 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tika-express-programme-to-maximise-vaccine-coverage/article36850401.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Truck owners’ plea to vehicle manufacturers on warranty||Office-bearers of the Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association (APLOA) have made an appeal to automobile manufacturing firms to extend the warranty and service schedules of their vehicles in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In separate letters addressed to Bapusaheb Bhadale, Senior Manager, Tata Motors Limited, Mumbai and Justin Arokiaraj of Ashok Leyland, Secunderabad, general secretary of the Association Y.V. Eswara Rao on Tuesday pointed out that the transport industry had incurred heavy loss due to low productivity by the industries and insufficient loading to operate their trucks during the pandemic-induced lockdown. A majority of the trucks were lying idle during the lockdown, he said, requesting for an extension of the warranty period for two more years. Mr. Rao said that since most of the workshops were closed during the lockdown, the companies did not attend to activities like carrying out repairs or regular services as per schedule. Mr. Rao referred to reports that some manufacturers were refusing to admit warranty on transfer of ownership of the truck. “Transfer of ownership should not reduce the durability of your product,” he said. He also pointed out that the on-road price of the vehicles included warranty assurance and that it was not complimentary to the customer. With ownership transfer, all rights of the product are transferred, including warranty for the assured period, by default, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/truck-owners-plea-to-vehicle-manufacturers-on-warranty/article36850403.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delay in engineering counselling causes concern among students||Delay in the issue of counselling notification for admissions in engineering colleges in the State is causing concern among the students who have qualified in the Common Entrance Test. “The neighbouring Telangana has completed the first phase of counselling, and we are still waiting for the government to release the schedule for the process,” says a worried Priyanka Bikkina. Members of the Andhra Pradesh Private Engineering Colleges’ Managements’ Association (APPECMA) have submitted a representation to the Department of Higher Education with an appeal to expedite the process as otherwise the students would migrate to deemed universities and private colleges in the neighbouring States of Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “The Engineering, Agriculture and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test (EAPCET-2021) concluded on August 25, and we are still waiting for the notification for the counselling process to begin,” said C. Gangi Reddy, president of the association, citing “an inordinate delay on the part of the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) to start the process.” Sources, meanwhile, said the universities were of the view that recognition of 38 colleges that failed to enrol more than 25% of admissions in the last three years should be revoked. Of these colleges, 22 were affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University- Kakinada (JNTU-K) and 16 to JNTU-Anantapur. Last year, permissions were denied to 30 colleges, and officials were assessing their records to check if the anomalies had been addressed. Convener quota The new system put in place this year, which says that the government will fill 35% of the seats under ‘Convener quota’ in private universities, is said to be contributing to the delay. The fee structure for these seats would be fixed by the Andhra Pradesh Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APHERMC). A top official of the APSCHE said the council was waiting for the universities to complete the affiliation process and submit to it the details of the sanctioned intake. Referring to the G.O. on the 35% government quota in private universities, he said the data and information related to the final fee structure fixed by the APHERMC was also awaited. ‘Notification likely this week’ “Once that is done, we will take up the admission process. We may release the notification this week,” he said. The APPECMA office-bearers, meanwhile, have called for a meeting on Wednesday (October 6) to discuss the repercussions of the delay on their institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delay-in-engineering-counselling-causes-concern-among-students/article36850666.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two restaurants found running without licence fined Rs. 10,000 each||Two restaurants and a meat vendor were fined by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials for violation of food safety rules on Tuesday. VMC Veterinary Assistant Surgeon A. Ravichand and Food Sanitary Inspector Gopala Krishna inspected various eateries and meat shops in Prakash Nagar, Dabakotla Centre, Ajith Singh Nagar and nearby areas suspecting the sale of adulterated and stale meat. Dr. Ravichand said a meat vendor in Prakash Nagar was found selling stale chicken and a fine of Rs. 4,000 was levied and collected on the spot. He said two restaurants running without valid trade licence and food licence were fined Rs. 10,000 each and the same was collected on the spot. ‘Use of food colours beyond limit’ He said restaurants were found using synthetic food colours beyond permissible limits. He asked people to complain to VMC if they came across the sale of stale meat and stale food items at meat shops and eateries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-restaurants-found-running-without-licence-fined-rs-10000-each/article36850945.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child not issued disability pension for two months||A 12-year-old physically challenged child was deprived of pension by the government for two months due to a “technical issue”. The issue was resolved a day after his parents raised a grievance in the Spandana programme and with the quick response of District Collector J. Nivas. According to a release, V. Vasu, who was born with bodily disabilities to V. Sukanya and Nagaiah of Vemavarapadu village of Kaikaluru mandal, used to regularly get disability pension. According to a release by the district administration, he couldn’t be given the pension for the last two months as his fingerprints could not be read by the devices used for Aadhaar authentication. His parents submitted their grievance in the Spandana programme to the Collector on Monday. With the intervention of the Collector, alternative arrangements were made and pension was sanctioned to the child. Aadhaar biometrics authentication could be made using iris-based authentication or other biometric modalities as per UIDAI in the absence of fingerprints to a cardholder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-not-issued-disability-pension-for-two-months/article36850946.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus claims 11 more lives in State||The State reported 11 more deaths due to coronavirus and 671 infections in the 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative toll to 14,219 and tally to 20,53,863. The number of active cases came down further to 9,141, with 1,272 recoveries in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stood at 20,30,503 and 98.86% respectively. The daily test positivity rate for 41,523 samples was put at 1.62%. Prakasam, Krishna and West Godavari districts reported two more deaths each, while Nellore, Guntur, Kadapa, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts reported one each. West Godavari reported 109 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (102), Guntur (91), Prakasam (74), Krishna (66), East Godavari (65), Nellore (57), Visakhapatnam (52), Vizianagaram (19), Srikakulam (15), Kadapa (9), Anantapur (9) and Kurnool (3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-claims-11-more-lives-in-state/article36850658.ece
06 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two rowdy sheeters, KD sheeter expelled||Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu on Tuesday issued orders placing two rowdy-sheeters M. Shiva Naga Mahesh alias Mahesh and K. Sammulu, and a KD sheeter V. Rajashekar alias Raju, under expulsion for a period of six months from Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits, allegedly for creating law and order problems in the city. In a statement, the police said the Ajitsingh Nagar police had opened rowdy sheets and the KD sheet against the three who had undergone imprisonment in a few cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-rowdy-sheeters-kd-sheeter-expelled/article36850944.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University students stage protest, seek fee reimbursement||Hundreds of students pursuing various courses in Andhra University took out a rally from the varsity campus to the Collector office and staged a protest, here on Tuesday, demanding that the government reimburse their fees immediately. According to the students, they had got seats in various courses such as M.Sc., M.Com., and M.B.A after appearing in the entrance examinations in the year 2020-21. “As per G.O 77, the government assured that we need not pay a single rupee and the fee will be reimbursed by the State government under Jagananna Vidya Deevana scheme,” they said. The students alleged that the Andhra University officials have issued a circular asking them to pay the fee immediately before October 10, failing which they would not be allowed to attend the classes. “The fee structure of various courses vary from Rs. 90,000 to Rs. 1.3 lakh for the two years. Last year, most of the students have received only Rs. 10,000 as fee reimbursement from the State government, that too in phases. What about the rest of the fee? Why do not the State government and universities coordinate?,” said a protestor. Another student said that many of the students belong to middle class families, while there are several students whose parents work as farmers, labourers and are not in a position to pay fee. “We worked hard and got a seat in the university, because we are not able to pay fee in private colleges. But here again, the officials are asking us to pay. What about the promises given by the State government?” said a girl student. The students said that the varsity should immediately withdraw the circular and the government should also reimburse the fee. Since the District Collector was attending another programme, the students submitted their representation to officials at the Administrative Office. “Some of us were asked to come and meet the Collector again on Wednesday. We will meet him and explain our issue. If the government does not take any action, we will not hesitate to stage hunger strike at the AU from October 10,” said a student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-university-students-stage-protest-seek-fee-reimbursement/article36850980.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused in girl’s kidnap case arrested, remanded||The district police arrested Koyyana Tirupathi Rao here on Tuesday for allegedly kidnapping a 13-year-old girl on June 26, 2015. Tirupathi Rao, who was then working as a teacher in a school in Chodavaram, had allegedly lured the girl and kidnapped her. Addressing the media, Anakapalle DSP K. Shravani said that based on instructions from Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, to take up all pending cases, this case was investigated for about two months and finally the accused along with the victim was traced in Alwar in Rajasthan. After getting some leads that the accused was in Alwar, a special team was formed with Chodavaram Circle Inspector Ilyas Mohammed, Sub-Inspector Attada Vibhishana Rao and three head constables. The special team nabbed the accused and rescued the victim on October 3 and Tirupathi Rao was brought to Visakhapatnam on October 4. The accused was produced before the judge of Chodavaram court on Tuesday and sent in remand. Two children After six years, the victim is now the mother of two children aged around five and three years, said Ms. Shravani. According to Mr. Ilyas Mohammed, cases have been booked under relevant IPC Sections such as 363, 366, 376 (6) and also under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accused-in-girls-kidnap-case-arrested-remanded/article36850700.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study well, girl students told||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao called upon girl students to study well and contribute to the economy of the nation as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is providing all that they needed to achieve their goals. The Minister participated in the ‘Swechha’ programme, launched by the Chief Minister from his camp office at Tadepalli, through video conference, at the ZP High School at Chandrampalem, here, on Tuesday. The programme is meant to provide branded sanitary napkins to girls, studying between 7th and 12th standards, to reduce the dropout rate of girls in government schools. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna and Araku MP Goddeti Madhavi also participated in the programme. Addressing the girl students, the Minister said that the ‘Disha’ app was already launched for their protection and appealed to all of them to download the app on their mobile phones for timely help from the police in times of need. He said that he had brought to the notice of the Chief Minister on the need for establishing a government junior college in Madhurawada area. The District Collector said that a Nodal Officer would be appointed in each school for the implementation of the ‘Swechha’ programme. Ms. Madhavi told the girl students on the importance of hygiene and its role in good health. VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijayanirmala, Zilla Parishad Chairperson J. Subhadra and officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-well-girl-students-told/article36850976.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for cow urine picks up in Agency as ryots shift to natural farming||The Visakha Agency is witnessing a surge in the demand for cow urine as more farmers in this tribal belt are switching over to community managed natural farming (CMNF). Cow urine plays a key role in accelerating the natural and bio-active process of regenerating life in soils and this is prompting the farmers to shift to natural farming, after a pilot project of collecting cow urine in bulk has proved to be a success at Gurrampanuku and Killoguda villages in Paderu and Modaghara in the limits of Seethampeta Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA). The pilot project were undertaken with the support of Watershed Support Services and Activities Network (WASSAN), in collaboration with the Azim Premji Foundation that invested in the project and Raithu Sadhikara Samstha (RYSS) that conducts field trials of various crops. “Collecting cow urine in bulk was a major hindrance for the CMNF due to seepage into soils, cracks in the floors of cowsheds and inappropriate collection practice. We have provided solutions to these problems after a thorough research,” M.L. Sanyasi Rao, Regional Program Manager of the WASSAN, told The Hindu.  Bulk collection process The pilot project was launched at Gurrampanuku in December 2020. Eight cowsheds were connected through a pipeline after the floor of each shed was made leak proof. A floor was given a gradient so that the urine flows into the pipeline connected to a tank of a storage capacity of 2,400 litres. The main tank has a blender and after 72 hours of blending, the liquid moves to another tank equipped with filtering facility. The entrepreneur can get ‘Jeevamrutham’, at the end of the process. At Gurrampanuku, the farmers have eight cowsheds housing 41 cows and on an average, they collect over eight litres of urine per day, which can be scaled up to 500 litres per month. Mr. Sanyasi Rao said that the requirement of ‘Jeevamrutham’ for 50 acres is around 10,000 litres per year. For preparing 10,000 litres of ‘Jeevamrutham’, about 500 litres of cow urine is needed. The farmers can now become entrepreneurs by selling the produce of the remaining 11 months, he said. This year, the farmers are able to cater to the demands of 300 farmers in 10 villages, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-for-cow-urine-picks-up-in-agency-as-ryots-shift-to-natural-farming/article36850669.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bangladesh naval personnel visit INS Dega||As part of professional interaction, the naval personnel from Bangladesh Navy Ship (BNS) Somudra Avijan visited the air station INS Dega, here on Tuesday. BNS Somudra Avijan is at Visakhapatnam on a five-day visit to the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations. At INS Dega, Commodore Vishal Bishnoi, Commanding Officer, provided an insight about the air station and briefed the BN personnel about the nuances of maritime air operations during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bangladesh-naval-personnel-visit-ins-dega/article36850966.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Street plays staged on seasonal diseases||In order to create awareness in seasonal diseases, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials have organised street plays in the city. Collaborating with the city-based Rasagya Samskrithika Seva Samithi, the corporation staged street plays in several areas of the Zone II on Tuesday. The plays were organised at Dhobhi Colony, Vambay Colony in Ward no. 7 and, Sagar Nagar and Subhash Nagar in Ward no. 8. Breeding of mosquitoes Members of the group explained about the breeding of mosquitoes after rains, if the surroundings are not cleaned. They also informed people about the dos and don’ts to prevent seasonal diseases like dengue and malaria. Writer D. Nageswara Rao, Director V. Trinadh Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/street-plays-staged-on-seasonal-diseases/article36850970.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ask Centre to reconsider its decision on VSP, forum urges President||The Intellectual Forum of Andhra University has appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to prevail upon the Centre to reconsider its decision on privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in the interest of the nation, in general, and Andhra Pradesh, in particular. A roundtable was conducted, under the aegis of the D. Suvarna Raju, coordinator of the meeting, and a former Student’s Union leader of Andhra University, at TLN Sabha Hall here on Tuesday. The letter to the President was signed by 27 participants, including former Vice Chancellor of Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University Y. Satyanarayana and a former Professor of AU Chandu Subba Rao. Describing the decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on January 27, 2021, on privatisation of VSP through 100% disinvestment as ‘Unconstitutional, arbitrary, malafide and undemocratic’, they noted that the Centre was doing 100% injustice to the State. Questioning the double standards of the Centre, they wondered why the Centre has invested Rs. 1,200 crore from public sector banks and Rs. 8,000 crore from ONGC, when the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation had become a sick unit. Copies of the letter were also marked to the Vice-President, the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Chief Ministers of all States and Opposition leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ask-centre-to-reconsider-its-decision-on-vsp-forum-urges-president/article36850975.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to educate farmers on technology||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna directed the officials concerned to strive to make farmers adopt modern technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He organised a review meeting with officials of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture and the Fisheries Departments on Tuesday. He asked the officials to display the crop losses due to cyclone Gulab, at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). The e-crop should be completed first so that crop loss, insurance and Rythu Bharosa and other benefits could be given to the farmers. Fertilizers and pesticides should be made available to the farmers, he said. The farmers should be told about the new varieties of seeds to improve production and on horticulture crops. The officials should look into the feasibility of food processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-educate-farmers-on-technology/article36850977.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 persons, including Odisha constable, held||The district police arrested three persons, including a police constable of Odisha, while they were allegedly transporting around 402 kg dry ganja in a van near Ginjarthi Junction under the K.D.Peta police station limits, in the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. Based on credible information, teams of police from Koyyuru and K.D. Peta have intercepted a vehicle near Ginjarthi and busted the ganja case. The arrested were identified as Madhusudhan Bhumiya (33) of Lakshmipur, Koraput of Odisha, a police constable, Ashish Kumar (34) of Odisha and S. Somaraju of Rallagedda in Chintapalle mandal. According to the police, the accused had said that they had procured ganja from several places in Odisha. The police said that on August 29, around 1,710 kg ganja was seized at Koyyuru region. The accused, who were caught on Tuesday, are also the prime accused in that case, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-persons-including-odisha-constable-held/article36850978.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Politicians out to destroy steel plant’||A number of struggles and a lot of sacrifice has led to the establishment of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) but politicians are out to destroy it for their vested interests, said former Vice-Chancellor of Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU) Y. Satyanarayana. He was speaking at a roundtable organised to oppose the privatisation of the VSP, at the TLN Sabha Hall of Andhra University, here on Tuesday. D. Suvarna Raju, a former president of the AU Students’ Union, who had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the AP High Court, said that handing over the VSP to a private player, would deprive the underprivileged sections of the benefit of reservations.  A number of former professors participated in the roundtable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/politicians-out-to-destroy-steel-plant/article36850974.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accident leads to seizure of 52 kg ganja||Three persons were injured when the motorcycle in which they were travelling was allegedly hit by a speeding car near Annavaram area in Chintapalle mandal in the Visakhapatnam Agency, on Monday night. The police found around 52 kg dry ganja in the car allegedly involved in the accident. According to Chintapalle Circle Inspector Srinu, after the accident people in the car fled from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accident-leads-to-seizure-of-52-kg-ganja/article36850981.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman caught with bullets at airport||A woman passenger was reportedly caught carrying around 12 bullets in her luggage, at Visakhapatnam Airport on Tuesday. Preliminary investigation suggested that the bullets belonged to her father, who owned a licensed weapon. There seems to be no mala fide intention. Police are yet to furnish details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-caught-with-bullets-at-airport/article36850949.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Around 80 students took part in the drawing competition organised by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park here on Tuesday. Around 20 took part in the Wildlife Photography Contest, Curator Nandani Salaria said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article36850962.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports 52 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 52 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,337. The death toll stands at 1,089 as no death was reported since the last couple of days. During the last 24 hours, 33 persons recovered from the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-52-new-covid-cases/article36850965.ece
06 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Offline yoga classes for women from October 7||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting offline ‘General and Power Yoga’ classes for women from October 7. The timings for the programme is 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Head of the Department K. Ramesh Babu in a release on Tuesday said interested should contact Mr. P. Pratap, Yoga Instructor (9985752215).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/offline-yoga-classes-for-women-from-october-7/article36850969.ece
06 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door survey to obtain vaccination data||With many people skipping the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, the district administration has taken up a door-to-door survey to obtain the vaccination details of every person. While 5.73 lakh people have been administered both the doses, 3.63 lakh have been given only one one dose. While a few of them are yet to complete their stipulated waiting period for the second dose, 99,000 people have not come forward to get the second jab. District Collector A. Suryakumari has directed the District Medical and Health Department to complete the vaccination process by explaining the eligible people the importance of taking the second dose. She has directed the departments concerned to take up a door-to-door survey by roping in the village and ward secretariats. “The second dose of vaccine is vital in protecting humans from the virus. The officials have been asked to to administer the vaccine by visiting the houses as many elderly persons cannot come to the Primary Health Centres and village secretariats,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/door-to-door-survey-to-obtain-vaccination-data/article36850698.ece
06 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in road accident||Three persons were killed two others received serious injuries when a car coming from Odisha collided with an auto and a bus in Gajapathinagaram of Vizianagaram distrct on Tuesday. The police said that Grandhi Sekhar (45) and Dinesh (35) of Saluru, who were travelling in the auto died on the spot, while Chandini, a passenger in the car, died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-road-accident/article36850696.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trudging along||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trudging-along/article36850951.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Countdown begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/countdown-begins/article36850405.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New facility||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-facility/article36850968.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to call for claims on podu lands||The State government will start receiving claims for assignment of podu lands from the third week of this month, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said. Indicating that the government had resolved to end the ongoing struggle by tribals for podu lands, the Chief Minister said the government would seek claims from all the eligible and ensure that land available with it was assigned to tribes. Committees headed by MLAs would be constituted in all the districts to redress podu land issue and respective MLAs should take the responsibility for selecting the eligible beneficiaries in a transparent manner. Replying to a debate on Dalit Bandhu which came up as short discussion in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, the Chief Minister however asserted that encroachment of forest lands should also be looked into in the process. The government could allot some lands under its purview without seeking the Central government’s nod, but a pledge should be taken to ensure that forests were not damaged forthwith. Committees should be formed at village-level for protection of forests and undertaking should be obtained from the beneficiaries that they would not extend their operations beyond a certain demarcated area. Infrastructure The Chief Minister announced that the State government would soon take up programme for providing basic amenities in all the Dalit and tribal habitations across the State. The Scheduled Castes and Tribal Welfare departments had been asked to prepare an action plan in this regard and it would be submitted to the government soon. Funds for providing all the necessary infrastructure would be earmarked and the programme would be taken up in a phased manner, he said. Recruitment drive soon He said the government had convinced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow implementation of 95 % reservation for locals in recruitments for government jobs under the new zonal system. Recruitment would be taken up on the basis of the new zonal system once the staffing pattern in the village, mandal and district levels was finalized. “The process is likely to be completed in two months. There is scope for creation of 70,000 to 80,000 jobs at the local level,” he said. The government had so far notified 1.51 lakh jobs so far, of which, recruitments were made to 1.32 lakh posts. The government would circulate the information pertaining to the recruitments in the ongoing monsoon session of the Legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-call-for-claims-on-podu-lands/article36850746.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Trees felled without permission||In a classic case of law enforcers breaking the law, Irrigation department and GHMC are caught on the defensive by violating the WALTA Act. Several trees were felled without requisite permissions in the GHMC limits based on the Irrigation officials’ directives here on Tuesday. About 20 full grown and semi grown trees of various species including neem and subabul were chopped on the Bam Rukn-ud-Dowlah lake bund in Sivarampally limits by a contractor engaged by the Irrigation wing of GHMC. Local residents informed that about 15 to 20 per cent of the jungle on the lake bund was cleared by engaging labourers and machinery, before the violation was brought to the notice of the Forest department. Irrigation officials, on the condition of anonymity, admit to the violation, but said the jungle was being cleared for strengthening of the bund. “Trees should not be allowed to grow on the lake bund, as they will weaken the structure. Till five years ago, the said lake bund was being cleared regularly without hassle. Due to lack of funding for maintenance, such activities have taken a back seat, which allowed for growth of jungle there,” said an official. Residents of the colonies surrounding the lake recall the cleared the area as a picturesque location with rich biodiversity. “We used to visit here regularly to click pictures of birds of various species. It was a beautiful place with thick forest,” recalled Rohith, a local resident and bird photographer. Forest officials, upon receiving information, halted the operation, and seized an excavator and a tree cutter machine from the site. They confirmed that no permission had been sought to fell the trees on the lake bund. The amount of penalty to be imposed on the departments responsible for violation is being worked out, informed Vijayanand, Forest Divisional Officer of Shamshabad forest division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trees-felled-without-permission/article36850732.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||500-600 buses likely to be removed from city operations||TSRTC continues to struggle with low daily average traffic earnings and occupancy ratios. The losses have led the ailing transport body to contemplate removing 500-600 buses from its city operations. If the move goes through, this will be the second time after the 2019 TSRTC strike that the Greater Hyderabad Zone (GHZ) will see fewer buses on the roads. As per latest official data, daily average traffic earnings for September stood at Rs. 9.31 crore, which is lower than February’s Rs. 10.97 crore — the time when the revenue earning peaked. The figures for September, though an improvement, remain low, and are far from break-even. “Diesel prices have risen by Rs. 22-23 over the past few months, which is the main reason for losses. This by itself is taking a toll on revenues. The number of commuters opting for buses in this pandemic situation is low, but slowly recovering. There are operation costs — salaries, oil, tyre and spare parts cost. There, however, is an improvement on many performance parameters. We are encouraging more people to travel by buses,” a TSRTC official said. Official figures show the occupancy ratio for September dipped to 59% from 64% in July while the daily average volume of operations is 30 lakh km. This is a significant improvement from 8 lakh km clocked in May. Sources suggest GHZ requires a daily revenue of a little over Rs. 4 crore to break even. However, the per day revenue stands at approximately Rs. 2.50 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/500-600-buses-likely-to-be-removed-from-city-operations/article36850724.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior Health officials inspect Niloufer, Fever Hospital||A day after AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi sought to review the situation at Niloufer Hospital in Red Hills and Fever Hospital in Nallakunta during the Assembly session, senior officials from the State Health department visited the two health facilities on Tuesday. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao took stock of the out-patient, in-patient and intensive care units (ICU) at the hospitals. They held meetings with hospital heads as well as senior doctors. The number of in-patient admission during monsoon, list of diseases or illnesses, number of out-patient registrations and available medical resources were discussed. Mr Owaisi on Monday had pointed out that beds at Niloufer Hospital were full, and several patients were getting admitted at Fever Hospital. Doctors at Niloufer said since children could get affected during the anticipated third wave of COVID-19, additional ventilators and equipment to address respiratory issues had been bought. “Currently, we are getting children suffering from respiratory issues. The equipment bought earlier is being used for their treatment,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-health-officials-inspect-niloufer-fever-hospital/article36850714.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uttam demands bullet train on Hyderabad-Vijayawada route||Senior Congress leader and Nalgonda MP N. Uttamkumar Reddy on Tuesday demanded sanction of a bullet train from Hyderabad to Vijayawada via Nakrekal, Suryapet and Kodad to be built along the National Highway 65 where land is available. A bullet train from Hyderabad to Vijayawada on this route would not only reduce travel time to 1.5 hours but would boost economies of both Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and that of the nation. The Hyderabad-Vijayawada bullet train would be more viable than the Mumbai-Ahmedabad one, he claimed in a representation made to South Central Railway general manager Gajanan Mallya. During the meeting held with MPs of the SCR divisions at Rail Nilayam, he said the present rail route from Hyderabad to Vijayawada via Kazipet is 350 km and the train journey takes 6-7 hours, but the new route along the NH would reduce the distance to 256 km. The huge traffic density on NH 65 is reflected in the 1,500 buses and thousand of cars, lorries and other automobiles plying on this road everyday, he said. Mr. Reddy also wanted passenger trains to be run on the Jaggaiahpet - Mellacheruvu – Mattampalli – Miryalaguda rail line and sought a new railway line to be sanctioned between Dornakal and Miryalaguda, improving Nalgonda and Miryalaguda railway stations; etc. BJP Nizamabad MP D. Aravind blasted the TRS government and put the entire blame on it for the “90% delay” in several railway lines and works from the MMTS phase 2 to Road over/under-bridges at many places. He said the government has no qualms in spending more than Rs. 1.5 lakh crore on Kaleshwaram irrigation project but does not want to give even “a few hundred crores” for completion of railway works which would benefit lakhs of people. “I have lost faith in this bankrupt government about any funds being given to the railway projects. In fact, it has been lobbying for funds to the textile park in lieu of the proposed wagon repair workshop at Warangal,” he claimed. The MP sought extension of the Tirupati-Karimnagar train up to Nizamabad, Rayalaseema Superfast Express up to Bodhan and trains towards Delhi and Mumbai. TRS MP Ranjith Reddy and others complained that many “local” issues raised are not being solved despite many representations. “There are no funds for ROBs/RUBs cannot be the answer. A solution has to be found as the people hold us responsible,” he said. Right of way for the farmers whose lands are abutting the railway lands, beautification of the stations and more amenities for passengers like lifts were sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-demands-bullet-train-on-hyderabad-vijayawada-route/article36850717.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Multiple cases against Mallanna vindictive: HC||Observing that registration of multiple crimes by police against YouTube channel Q news operator Chintapandu Naveen alias Teenmaar Mallanna on same allegations “was vindictive”, Telangana High Court instructed the DGP to refrain from doing so. Justice K. Lakshman, pronouncing the verdict in a writ petition filed by Mallanna’s wife K. Mathamma, said the DGP should “personally supervise investigation in respect of the crimes pending against Mallanna”. While investigating cases (in which punishment of seven-year jail term or less was prescribed) against Mallanna, investigating officers should comply with Section 41-A of Criminal Procedure Code and the guidelines issued by Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar case. Failure to follow this section and guideline would constitute contempt of court. The police officers concerned were liable for punishment, Justice K. Lakshamn said in the order. The judge made it clear that police should not harass Mallanna or his wife in the guise of investigation. “However, both of them should co-operate with police in the investigation of cases.”. If there was more than one crime registered against Mallanna on same allegation arising out of same cause of action, the police should investigate one case. They should treat other crimes as statements under Section 162 of Criminal Procedure Code. The judge also directed the DGP to inform Mallanna, who is presently lodged in prison, or his wife about cases pending against him. This along with details of bailable or non-bailable warrants issued against him should also be conveyed to Mallanna within a week of receiving the verdict copy, the judge said. The DGP should consider charges made against Mallanna in all 35 cases. If multiple cases were registered on same allegation, the investigators concerned must be instructed to close the remaining cases, the judge said. While arresting and executing prisoner transit warrants against Mallanna, the police should follow guidelines issued by the apex court in the cases of D.K. Bose and K.N. Nehru respectively. “Friendly policing” of Telangana was appreciable but booking multiple cases on same charges would damage their reputation, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multiple-cases-against-mallanna-vindictive-hc/article36850727.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No data yet on vaccine booster efficacy’||There is no data as yet on the long-term efficacy of COVID vaccines in the country, but lack of antibodies is no indication of the human body losing ability to fight against severe disease and hospitalisation, says top scientist and director of Tata Institute for Genetics & Society Rakesh Mishra. “There are other vaccine-induced cellular memory routes of protective mechanisms which at times work better than antibodies themselves, especially when we talk about long term protection”, he explains, in the second part of an exclusive interaction. “Vaccines are protecting as they have been designed to be so, and deaths are rare. As time passes, maybe in a couple of years or more, we will understand more about the protective mechanism as it has been only about six months since the vaccination has begun,” he says. Dr. Mishra points out several research institutions and scientists are doing vaccine follow-up studies and “it will take a while before we can come to a firm conclusion about needing another booster dose as it has not been established. Right now, the country cannot afford to think about those and breakthrough infections are within the expected range”. There is no other alternative but to continue with vaccination efforts with at least one crore jabs or more per day, he says, so that in three months most of the population can be covered and the pandemic can end. “But testing and tracing should continue,” he avers. The former director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) has urged people to adhere to the rule of face mask and avoid indoor gatherings. “Vaccinated people could be asymptomatic and may not have serious illness but can transmit the virus. Face masks can stop any variant and it should be part of our daily lives for a few more months,” he affirms. ‘New variant’ While he is disappointed with the United States’ approval for the booster doses when many poor countries are yet to have vaccine supply to protect their respective populations like in Africa, he feels India can show the way by allowing vaccine exports. “A new virulent SARS-CoV-2 variant escaping vaccine protection can arise from anywhere in the world when it is allowed to circulate freely, so to think booster dose in United States (US) is a protection is a fallacy,” maintains Dr. Mishra, who continues his research work in his laboratory at Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology here. “The focus should be on rapid vaccination and on the upcoming children’s vaccine expected in 3-6 months to get out of the pandemic for good. Vaccine safety is obvious and even with 50% efficacy, the regulatory authorities should give it a go as it offers protection to children,” adds the eminent scientist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-data-yet-on-vaccine-booster-efficacy/article36850853.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BSP can decide Huzurabad winner but will remain neutral’||“Bahujan Samaj Party has strength to decide the winner in the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly seat, which is having over 30,000 Dalit voters. But we are not going to field any candidate in tune with party’s policy not to contest any bypolls,” said BSP State chief R.S. Praveen Kumar on Tuesday. BSP believes that ruling party would have advantages in byelections. Naturally, candidates of parties in power would win the bypoll, be it an Assembly or Lok Sabha election. Even otherwise, a bypoll result would have little or no serious political consequences. “Hence, Huzurabad byelection is insignificant and inconsequential for BSP,” said the police officer-turned politician speaking with The Hindu . BSP, having championed the cause of oppressed and suppressed classes, can ensure all Dalit votes would not be cast in favour of a particular candidate. “Yet, we want to be neutral in this bypoll,” Mr. Praveen Kumar said. In addition to the party’s strength, he claimed that his familiarity with the people of the constituency during his stint as SP of Karimnagar district would help in building public opinion. He made it clear that his immediate task was to strengthen the party from polling booth level to Lok Sabha constituency. With the “tremendous response” the party had been receiving “not only from Dalits but also backward classes,” the former police officer said he would prove his party would be a force to reckon with soon. The byelection could be important for ruling TRS party in the State and the BJP which is in power at the Centre. With a powerful leader from BC community of Mudiraj quitting and joining hands with BJP, TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao was surely feeling insecure, the BSP chief said. “Otherwise why are four ministers and nearly 20 MLAs campaigning in a single Assembly constituency? Only to woo Dalit voters, Dalit Bandhu scheme was launched,” Mr. Praveen Kumar observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bsp-can-decide-huzurabad-winner-but-will-remain-neutral/article36850740.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS will return to power after next elections too: KCR||Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has exuded confidence that the ruling party would retain power in the State after the next elections. “We have our estimates. There is not an iota of doubt that we will continue. People will not leave the government, which is delivering,” he said. Mr. Rao dismissed the Opposition parties’, particularly the Congress, claims that Dalit Bandhu had been started with an eye on the Huzurabad bypoll. The scheme, he said, should have been launched a year ago, but for the adverse impact of COVID-19 on the State’s finances. Now that the State was witnessing significant economic growth post COVID-19, the government thought it appropriate to launch the scheme. “Why should we lie? Huzurabad’s result is not going to change the government,” he said. Cascading effect The Chief Minister was replying to an elaborate debate on the Dalit Bandhu, the flagship scheme for Dalit empowerment, in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. The scheme would have a cascading effect with spin off economic activities in diverse sectors. Explaining about the robust economic situation in the State, he said the government had planned implementation of Dalit Bandhu in a phased manner so that no family was left out. He said the Central government should have implemented a similar scheme as the number of Dalits had increased significantly over the years, but their condition remained the same. Dalit reservation was fixed at 15 %, but the actual percentage of their population was in excess of 18 %. “Several districts in the State like Mancherial, Jangaon, Bhupalapally, Karimnagar and Rangareddy have Dalit population in excess of 20 %,” he said. He faulted the Central government for refusing to undertake caste census. The Centre had gone ahead to file an affidavit in the Supreme Court expressing its inability to conduct caste census of backward classes. He favoured passage of a unanimous resolution by the State Legislature in support of caste census so that it could be forwarded to the Centre. The Centre had also shelved more than 25 representations submitted by the State, including a unanimous resolution passed by the Legislature for allowing categorization of Scheduled Castes. “Let the BJP members from the State convince the Centre to allow categorization of SCs,” he said. Responding to queries about how the State planned to mobilise funds required for Dalit Bandhu, he said anything was possible in politics. “We may have an influence over the next government at the Centre or we may be part of the next government. The present government may extend its assistance for the implementation of the scheme,” he said adding the government planned to speed up coverage of families based on the situation. 3-acre promise Responding to the remarks by MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi on assignment of three acre land each to Dalit families, he said the TRS had never given any such assurance. Mr. Rao said he favoured assignment of 2.5 to three acre land parcels to Dalits as the assignment made by the previous governments was “unscientific” and land did not yield the expected economic results. The government had assigned 16,000 acre land so far, but land had become a scarce commodity now. The government had to rationalize its spending in the past year because of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic which cost the State around Rs. 1 lakh crore. To a question, he said the government would implement schemes similar to Dalit Bandhu to poorest of the poor among Muslims, BCs and upper castes. “But it will take time. We need to have patience,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-will-return-to-power-after-next-elections-too-kcr/article36850744.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stir to seek MMTS trains on completed routes||CPI(M) City Committee held a demonstration in front of Rail Nilayam in Secunderabad on Tuesday demanding that the MMTS trains be run on the routes completed. MMTS Phase-II works were completed on Secunderabad-Ghatkesar, Secunderabad-Medchal, Falaknuma-Umdanagar and Ramachandrapuram-Tellapur routes, where trains must be started immediately, a representation by the party to SCR General Manager said. The phase-II works which started in September, 2014 were to be completed by December, 2017. After much delay, work on 60-km stretch in the four routes was completed. The Sanatnagar-Moulali route, however, has been partially completed, while Umda Nagar-Rajiv Gandhi International Airport route has been dropped by the government. Of the Rs. 816 crore sanctioned funding, Rs. 808 crore has been spent, and not running trains on completed routes amounts to wastage of public money, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stir-to-seek-mmts-trains-on-completed-routes/article36850718.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporation mulls Vajra AC buses for IT Corridor||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is mulling pressing into service air-conditioned Vajra buses in its Greater Hyderabad Zone (GHZ). According to data obtained under the Right to Information Act, GHZ had 21 such buses in its fleet in 2017-18. In the subsequent year, the number went up to 25. However, data shows that in 2019-20, there were no such buses. Recent deliberations within the TSRTC’s top brass pointed to the possibility of these buses making a comeback, especially in the IT Corridor. Sources said it is planned to have 30 to 35 Vajra AC buses along routes in the IT Corridor. These buses have a seating capacity of 18 passengers. The rationale, sources explained, is that the buses will travel short routes, around 10-15 km. The Vajra bus routes are likely to have fewer stops as compared to others, and passengers will be charged flat rates. No conductor Sources said in order to reduce operational costs, these buses will not have a conductor. That means, passengers will have to pay the ticket fare to the driver. Once proposals are finalised, the TSRTC will seek passenger feedback. The move’s profitability will also be studied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporation-mulls-vajra-ac-buses-for-it-corridor/article36850726.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC celebrates India@75||Public sector mining major NMDC organised a mega chess tournament on October 2 and 3 as part of the sports, academic and cultural programmes it is conducting to mark Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. School children from the twin cities participated in the tournament in three categories - Sub Junior (Class I to V), Junior (Class VI to VIII), and Senior (Class IX to XII). Several quiz and interactive sessions with the students on the country’s journey to Independence and beyond were conducted for the students. Around 400 students from over 75 schools celebrated Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav with NMDC, the company said in a release on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-celebrates-india75-with-students/article36850730.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dengue control needed round the year’||To control the spread of dengue, preventive measures have to be taken round the year and not just during monsoon. This message is being spread by M. Karuna, a member of the voluntary group Dengue Brigade, who says along with the efforts of government agencies, active involvement of people is necessary to eliminate the mosquito-borne disease. During a press conference held at the Press Club on Tuesday, Ms. Karuna and her colleagues from the group, put forth a host of measures that can bring down the incidence of dengue. “There ought to be public health experts and entomological experts as advisers to constantly suggest to the government what measures are required to be taken. The current monsoon is expected to last another month, where there is a possibility of the infection spreading. At this stage, the government ought to equip itself on a war footing strategy to counter the rising number of dengue infections,” she listed as an ‘immediate measure’. A committee to make a year-round plan and plotting of the infection pattern from November to May before the onset of the subsequent monsoon was suggested as a ‘long-term measure’. Other suggestions were related to involving celebrities collaborating with NGOs to spread awareness about dengue, involvement of people in cleaning their immediate environment, formation of local teams at schools, colleges and offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-participation-key-to-dengue-control-ngo/article36850715.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||218 new COVID cases detected in Telangana||The State’s coronavirus tally went up to 6,66,971 with the detection of 218 new cases on Tuesday. While 46,578 samples were put to test, results of 1,488 were awaited. The new cases included 69 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 15 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 14 each from Karimnagar and Nalgonda, and 11 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in six districts including Nirmal and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. One more COVID patient succumbed during the day, taking the death toll to 3,924. Of the total cases, 4,390 were active. So far, over 2.65 crore samples have been tested since March 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/218-new-covid-cases-detected/article36850716.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC opens four cells for Dasara rush||Gearing up for the Dasara season, the TSRTC has set up four communication cells in Hyderabad regarding special operations of buses to help the travelling public. TSRTC MD V.C.Sajjanar and Chairman Bajireddi Goverdhan in a statement issued here on Tuesday said the communication cells would start functioning round the clock from Wednesday. The cells are established at Rathifile Bus Station (Ph.No.9959226154), Koti Bus Station (Ph.No.9959226160), Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (Ph.No.9959226257) and Jubilee Bus Station (Ph.No.9959226246). They will be work till October 14. For the convenience of general public, the above communication cells will give information like timings, destination, and fares to the people who want to travel to villages. The information from where buses are going to villages like L.B.Nagar X roads, Uppal X Roads, Jubilee Bus Stand and Aramghar would be provided. There is a special package for more than 30 members like in a colony if they are going to the same place, they can get information from the above communication cells and book buses from nearest depots. Labour contractors who have workers working with them and if they are going to the same place, they can coordinate with these communication cells and can book buses from nearest depots. Students from who are going to the same place they can also book the buses after taking information from these communication cells. The uniqueness of TSRTC is that the buses will pick up from their chosen place. At the places like L.B. Nagar X Roada, Uppal X Roads, Jubilee Bus Station, Aramghar and Kukatpally, TSRTC officers would be physically present to monitor these special operations. For these places sufficient police bandobust would be available for ensuring that people do not use private vehicles, as passenger safety is paramount, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-opens-four-cells-for-dasara-operations/article36850729.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GRMB urged not to seek comments of A.P. on projects||Telangana government has requested the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) not to refer the detailed project reports (DPRs) of a lift irrigation project and a barrage — Chowtpally Hanumantha Reddy and Chanakha-Korata (Rudha) — submitted by it for appraisal with expeditious processing to Andhra Pradesh, stating that they were planned with allocated water during combined State. In a letter addressed to Chairman of GRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana Rajat Kumar said on Tuesday that the projects were planned well within the water allocated to Telangana and no inter-State issues were involved. The CHR lift scheme was taken up, executed and commissioned in combined AP and was in operation for the last six years. Similarly, Chanakha-Korata barrage was an approved project as per GRMB notification of July 15 this year and was taken up as per an agreement between combined A.P. and Maharashtra. Subsequently, Telangana has also signed a pact with Maharashtra. In such backdrop, it was not clear (to Telangana) what comments the GRMB was expecting from A.P. by referring the two DPRs for its (A.P.’s) observations and comments when there were no inter-State issues were involved between the two States with regard to the two projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grmb-urged-not-to-seek-comments-of-ap/article36850738.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe TU recruitment, says Sharmila||YSR Telangana Party president Y.S. Sharmila has demanded that a probe be ordered into the alleged irregularities in recruitment in Telangana University, Nizamabad. Participating in a day-long deeksha in support of the unemployed youth at Dichpally, Ms. Sharmila alleged that the top leaders in the ruling party had accepted money to make appointments to key positions in the various university across the State. Alleging that delay in recruitment drive across the university had caused a lot of hardships to students, the YSR Telangana Party chief blamed TRS government of not filling up teaching and non-teaching posts in the 10 universities. The party would stage protests if the government did not respond, Ms. Sharmila said and asked questioned the reluctance to order a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-recruitment-for-tu-says-sharmila/article36850742.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||French delegation to visit TS||The Indo-French Chamber of Commerce & Industry (IFCCI) is organising the visit of a delegation of over 100 French company CEOs, CXOs and diplomats to Hyderabad on October 8 with an aim to strengthen investment opportunities in Telangana. IFCCI intends to organise a conclave to showcase and promote existing French investments in the State and position Telangana as one of the most sought-after investment destinations due to its strategic location, conducive business environment, state-of-the-art infrastructure, proactive governance, and favourable ecosystem, it said in a release on Tuesday. The conclave will be attended by Ambassador of France Emmanuel Lenain and Telangana Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/french-delegation-to-visit-ts/article36850743.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monetisation by merger of RTC depots on anvil?||The beleaguered Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), which is grappling with crushing losses, has launched deliberations to identify the ways to increase its revenue. These include steps to monetise its assets in the form of land parcels it owns across the State. On the anvil is a merger of bus depots. Sources requesting anonymity said the major factors in the identification of such depots is their proximity to arterial thoroughfares, and the dependence on their hire buses. The larger the number of hire buses at such depots close to each other, the higher are the chances of monetising it. Fit for experiment Karimnagar 1 and Karimnagar 2 depots are a fit case for this experiment, they said. “Both depots are in prime locations and have a large number of hire buses. They buses are parked elsewhere, not at the depot. Employees are assigned to these buses and once their duty is done, these buses leave the depot. Once merged, the owned buses can be moved to one depot, freeing up the other to be used for monetisation,” a source explained, even as he clarified that the merger of depots would not affect workers. “They will be moved from one depot to the other. The idea is that once the merger happens, revenue from the vacant bus depot can be generated by means of entering into build-operate-transfer agreements with good entities. At the moment, no formal proposal has been submitted,” he added. With hire buses being one of the factors that would decide merging of depots, official data shows that as on June this year, TSRTC across the State hired as many as 57 City Metro Express buses, 328 City Ordinary or Mofussil services buses, 1,710 Pallevelugu buses and 992 Express buses. BBU talk Discussions on generating revenue from the land parcel on which TSRTC’s Bus Body-building unit (BBU) stands were also held. These entailed exploring possibilities of moving the BBU to the workshop in Uppal. However, sources said concrete steps are yet to be taken. Trade union leaders opined that the TSRTC’s land bank includes vacant land parcels, sprawling bus stations, depots, and workshops, among others. TSRTC Joint Action Committee office-bearer K. Raji Reddy estimated the total land bank to be around 1,400 acres. It has been a longstanding demand of the joint action committee that the TSRTC remain transparent regarding such deals. “All TSRTC lands are important, prime lands. We have always been against benami transactions. There should be an open tendering process. Also, such plans should not lead to the reduction of TSRTC workers,” Mr Reddy said. ‘Think of staff welfare’ Another trade union leader pointed out that any monetisation plan that the TSRTC management intends to make, must have the corporation and its employees’ welfare in mind. “The land beside Bus Bhavan is around 10 acres. Then there are Musheerabad 1, 2, 3 depots and a new vehicle parking yard. These combined run into 35 acres. Any place that has a depot and a bus station means it is a big town. With that, revenue can be generated from almost everywhere. In order to not have a syndicate in bidding, open tenders must be called,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monetisation-by-merger-of-tsrtc-depots-on-the-anvil/article36850720.ece
06 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||5-hour Sadak Bandh disrupts highway traffic in tribal areas||Hordes of cadres of the Left and various other Opposition parties, a clutch of farmers’ and mass organisations laid siege to the national and state highways at 21 different locations in the erstwhile composite Khammam district on Tuesday as part of “Sadak Bandh” demanding sanction of pattas (title deeds) for podu farmers as per the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. The five-hour “Sadak Bandh” called by the Podu Rythu Porata Committee at multiple locations spanning a length of 400-km in the predominantly tribal areas of as many as 16 districts, including Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts, disrupted vehicular traffic at different places along the main thoroughfares. The Sadak Bandh was organised to press for expeditious settlement of the long pending claims of tribals and other forest dwellers on forest lands and uphold their rights in accordance with the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, (FRA), 2006. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, CPI State secretary Ch. Venkat Reddy, CPI (ML-New Democracy) State secretary P. Ranga Rao and a host of senior leaders of the Congress and the TDP participated in the Sadak Bandh protest on the National Highway 365BB at Aswaraopeta. Several protesters were detained at various places in Bhadrachalam Agency and elsewhere in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district during the road rokos, sources said. Cadres of the CPI, the CPI (M), the CPI (ML-ND) and the Congress squatted on the main roads at select places in Konijerla, Enkoor, Penuballi, Sattupalli and Karepalli mandals in Khammam district. Members of several mass organisations performed a cultural demonstration on the roadside at Konijerla energising the demonstrators out on the roads to defend the rights of podu farmers. Addressing the demonstrators at Aswaraopeta, Mr. Veerabhadram said farmers and people from various walks of life came on to the roads as part of Sadak Bandh making it a success at several dozens of select locations along the highways passing through the length and breadth of the State. “Under pressure from the growing agitation in support of podu farmers, the State government constituted a cabinet sub-committee to look into the podu land issues,” he said, adding: “The podu farmers don’t trust the persons at the helm in the State, who miserably failed to deliver on their electoral promise of resolving the long pending podu land issues till date.” The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government has not sanctioned even a single patta for podu farmers in the last seven years of its rule and tried to drive them away from their traditional lands, he charged. He accused the ruling dispensation of depriving podu farmers of pattas for lands being tilled by them for decades for their livelihood in order to allow corporate entities to exploit the natural resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-hour-sadak-bandh-disrupts-highway-traffic-in-tribal-areas/article36850748.ece
06 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BC leaders seek alms in protest||Shirtless and with an empty plate in hand, leaders of Backward Classes in the district sought alms at the town’s clock tower on Tuesday to protest against the government’s 'careless attitude' towards the community. “The government is seeing us just as vote-giving beggars,” they said, going around the junction, seeking alms from motorists and pedestrians on the roadside. Its leader from the student union, A. Janardhan Goud, said the State government had not issued notification for loans through BC Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-leaders-seek-alms-in-protest/article36850737.ece
06 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||QR code for autos in Nalgonda||Furthering the strategy to ensure women safety, the Nalgonda police on Tuesday launched QR code for all auto-rickshaws. The codes, capturing all metadata of the vehicle and the driver, for vehicles were stickered and District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath flagged the vehicles, formally launching the safety initiative. He said the code also features quick message and call options for emergency situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qr-code-for-autos-in-nalgonda/article36850733.ece
06 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||New climate-resilient chickpea varieties coming||Three new chickpea varieties, with traits like enhanced drought tolerance, disease resistance and high yield, are set to become available to Indian farmers as they have been notified for cultivation by the Central Varietal Release Committee. “Genomics driven interventions to enhance crop yield and tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses are the need of the hour under changing climate. The national agricultural research system led by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been working in this direction to develop high yielding and climate resilient crop varieties. Thirty five varieties of different crops with special traits including climate resilience were dedicated to India by the Prime Minister. Two of these were chickpea developed in partnership with Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). I congratulate everyone involved in this collaborative effort and wish them more success in the future,” said Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research, and Director General, ICAR. The new chickpea varieties, IPC L4-14, BGM 4005 and IPCMB 19-3, are a result of ICRISAT’s collaborations with ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research (IIPR) in Kanpur and ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi. BGM 4005 and IPCMB 19-3 were among the crop varieties dedicated to India by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 28 September. “I am delighted to see the collaborative efforts of ICAR and ICRISAT benefit farmers. These new varieties are well poised to strengthen food and nutrition security as well as livelihoods in India by providing adaptation mechanisms to the climate related challenges confronting the agriculture sector,” said Dr. Jacqueline Hughes, Director General, ICRISAT. Dr. Arvind Kumar, ICRISAT’s Deputy Director General – Research, pointed to the threat of drought in chickpea growing regions of India while explaining the need for sustained and continued research to improve the crop. “Drought alone causes up to 60% annual yield losses in chickpea. Changing climate warrants development of cultivars that can attain their maximum potential under drought stress in rain-fed environments as well as in disease prone-environments,” Dr Kumar said. Among the three new chickpea varieties are the two drought tolerant varieties – IPC L4-14 and BGM 4005 – that were developed by transferring a "QTL-hotspot" (genes for drought tolerance) from the donor chickpea variety ICC 4958 into two leading parental chickpea varieties, DCP 92-3 and Pusa 362, respectively. After evaluation at several locations under no-irrigation (rain-fed conditions) for many years, the new varieties reported 14.76% and 11.9% overall mean yield advantage over their parental lines. These varieties have been released for cultivation in the North West Plain Zone (NWPZ) for chickpea cultivation in the country covering Punjab, Haryana, Planes of Jammu and Kashmir, parts of Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh. The third variety is Fusarium wilt-resistant IPCMB 19-3, which is also called Samriddhi. Developed by transferring Foc2 race resistance genes into the parent variety Pusa 256, this variety showed an overall mean yield advantage of 30.3% over its parent line. IPCMB 19-3 has been released in Central Zone covering Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. Dr. N P Singh, Director, ICAR- IIPR, emphasizing the role of genomics-assisted breeding, said, “Such high-yielding varieties developed through new approaches will enhance chickpea production further in India.” Dr. Manish Roorkiwal, a Senior Scientist in Molecular Breeding and Genomics at ICRISAT, said the diversity in chickpea germplasm offers plenty of scope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-climate-resilient-chickpea-varieties-coming/article36850734.ece
06 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Maanaveeya Development partners with Akshaya Patra||Maanaveeya Development and Finance Private Limited, the Indian subsidiary of Oikocredit, a 45-year-old global development financing institution, as part of their CSR initiative, has partnered with Akshaya Patra Foundation and pledged to support a customized food delivery vehicle at Kandi kitchen, Sangareddy. The vehicle will help in reaching more than 3,000 rural mid-day meals beneficiaries. Apart from the vehicle the organization extended dry ration kits to over 2,500 children during the pandemic. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Gouri Sankar, Managing Director, Maanaveeya Development and Finance Private Limited said: "We are pleased to partner with Akshaya Patra, and support them with this customized food delivery vehicle. We are also glad that we could also support over 2,500 children with Happiness kits during the pandemic when the schools were closed and the children were deprived of the regular mid-day meals”. Additionally, it supported the Kandi Kitchen facility of the Akshaya Patra Foundation with a solar power plant during 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maanaveeya-development-partners-with-akshaya-patra/article36850735.ece
06 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu’s overtures to woo Cong. leadership||After Congress’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained in Uttar Pradesh, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday sought to reach out to the party’s central leadership. Mr. Sidhu, whose status as PCC president is still not clear as he has not formally withdrawn his resignation and nor has the central leadership so far rejected or accepted his resignation, took to Twitter to express his appreciation towards Ms. Vadra’s stance on the “Lakhimpur Kheri” incident. “When in doubt walk the path of truth, never compromise on moral values !! “Moral Authority” thy name is @priyankagandhi,” said Mr. Sidhu in a tweet, which in political circles is being seen as an attempt to mend fences with the party’s central leadership. Mr. Sidhu added that Punjab Congress would launch a ‘march’ towards Lakhimpur Kheri, if by October 6, Ms. Vadra is not released and the accused were not arrested. “If, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri !” he tweeted. Mr. Sidhu had recently resigned from his post saying that the issues, especially surrounding the “sacrilege” and other, for which he had taken a committed stand before the people of Punjab are being compromised. Party insiders said that since his resignation, the party’s central leadership has been annoyed with Mr. Sidhu’s abrupt move but is apparently in a bind as it doesn't want Mr. Sidhu to be seen as a ‘martyr’ in the electoral battle, who has chosen emotional and sensitive issues surrounding Bargari sacrilege and inclusion of tainted leaders in the government as the basis for quitting. However, the party wants a swift end to the crises, even it means replacing the PCC chief. Last week also, Mr. Sidhu had tweeted, “Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every punjabi win !!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sidhus-overtures-to-woo-cong-leadership/article36850849.ece
06 October 2021||Guwahati,||Gauhati High Court takes up eviction case that claimed two lives||The Gauhati High Court has taken cognisance of the eviction drive at Dhalpur in Assam’s Darrang district that claimed two lives on September 23. The case was taken up following a petition by civil society group Axom Nagarik Samaj seeking a “court-monitored investigation into the incident as well as eviction process”. The court clubbed the case with a PIL plea filed in connection with the eviction drive by Congress MLA Debabrata Saikia and fixed October 7 as the date of hearing. Killed in police firing Two persons, including a minor, were killed in police firing during the eviction drive. The victims were Bengali-speaking Muslims marked for eviction for allegedly occupying government land illegally. While the police arrested village leaders Chand Mamud, Asmat Ali Ahmed and Sarifuddin for “instigating” the violence during the eviction drive, the Congress suspended its Baghbar MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed for raking up an incident in 1983 involving the area where the eviction was carried out. The MLA was also arrested for a “provocative” statement on the killing of eight Assamese youths in 1983. On Tuesday, he was presented before a local court that sent him in police custody for two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gauhati-high-court-takes-up-eviction-case-that-claimed-2-lives/article36850574.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Experts deliberate on ways to transform Delhi’s streets||The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi, in partnership with WRI India, organised an international workshop on ‘Transforming Delhi’s Streets’ here on Tuesday. The purpose of the virtual workshop was to understand international best practices in street design and development, the government stated. According to the government, the workshop was organised to learn from the journeys of top global cities in street transformation and apply those lessons to Delhi’s streets. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and PWD Minister Satyendar Jain were the chief guests. Jasmine Shah, vice chairperson of DDC, and O.P. Agarwal, CEO of WRI India, along with other top officials of WRI India and senior officials and engineers of the PWD Department, also attended the workshop. Global participation According to the government, the workshop saw participation of city makers and transport experts from London, New York, Seoul, Singapore and Bogota among others, sharing insights and experiences of street transformation. The workshop also saw participation from Bengaluru and Mumbai. The session facilitated a direct interaction between all the experts and the Delhi government. Mr. Jain reaffirmed the Delhi government’s commitment to redesign over 540 km-long roads in the city as per best global practices with an aim to make them safe, sustainable, pedestrian-friendly and accessible, especially to senior citizens and children. He emphasised the importance of global participation as a learning exercise and sought continued support from design experts across the world to collaborate with the Delhi government for redesigning roads. Mr. Sisodia said that the government is committed to focussing on infrastructural reforms and road redesigning with similar vigour. Mr. Shah, meanwhile, said, “It is illuminating to see almost all global cities began their journeys in street transformation only 15-20 years ago and have managed to do so in a short period.”  Gyeng Chul KIM from Seoul encapsulated the paradigm shift in Seoul from roads being a car-oriented space to becoming human spaces with focus on human mobility. He said that Seoul places public transport and pedestrian mobility as priority areas in its transport policy and law. From building flyovers and footbridges, which were inequitable and inaccessible to many, Seoul has incorporated more pedestrian squares, pedestrian crosswalks and lanes dedicated to buses. Ong Eu-Gene from Singapore shared the details of the road repurposing project in that country. He said that redesigning streets is not about just creating infrastructure or using the technology. It is about connecting places, people and possibilities, he added. Michael Replogle from New York emphasised the need to integrate data-driven processes in redesigning roads, recording progress and revising yearly priorities. He detailed the observations from the speed camera programme adopted in New York where most vehicles that received one traffic violation, did not receive another within a calendar year. Reducing traffic Alex Williams from London shared London’s Vision of Streets for All. London has focused on increasing the use of bicycles and buses. The London City Planning has made the buses more reliable and consistent with 24-hour operations, which has reduced traffic congestions due to private motor vehicles and made roads safer for cyclists and pedestrians. Dario Hidalgo from Bogota illustrated the sustainable mobility “A-S-I” approach adopted in 1998 i.e. Avoid motorised travel, Shift to environment-friendly modes of transport and Improve the energy efficiency of transport modes and vehicle technology. The expert suggested that since Bogota and Delhi have similar population density, their programmes could give an insight to the Delhi government to develop its programme. Jana Urban Space presented the TENDER SURE project being currently implemented to redesign 50 km of road in Bengaluru in collaboration with BBMP. Officials from Mumbai shared their experiences in setting up the Mumbai Street Lab to implement design interventions in road redevelopment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/experts-deliberate-on-ways-to-transform-delhis-streets/article36850842.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Court pulls up police for ‘harassing’ Delhi riots victim||A Delhi court on Tuesday pulled up the city police for “harassing” a victim of the north-east Delhi riots, by repeatedly serving him notice and asking for documents in relation to the investigation in his case, while noting that his grievance “seems to be real and not illusory”. No acknowledgement The applicant, one Mohd. Salman, represented by advocate M.R. Shamshad, had moved a plea before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg, seeking directions to the Investigating Officer (IO) in the case. Mr. Salman said that documents had already been submitted by him to the police on two previous occasions but no acknowledgement was being given to him by the IO upon receipt of the documents. In his plea, he also said that he is being forced to disclose the details of his new landlord. During the course of the hearing, SHO of Khajuri Khas police station and the IO told the court that they just wanted to record the statement of the new landlord of the house where Mr. Salman and his family had taken shelter after his home in West Karawal Nagar was allegedly attacked by a mob which threatened to kill him and his family. “... the court is unable to comprehend the purpose of recording the said statement, when the aforesaid landlord is not a witness of the alleged incident... apprehension of complainant regarding the alleged harassment by the IO and SHO Khajuri Khas in the name of further investigation, prima facie seems to be real and not illusory,” the order read. Unbiased probe “Joint Commissioner of Police, Eastern Range, is directed to file a comprehensive status report of further investigation in the present case under his signature within a period of two weeks from today and shall ensure that investigation in the present case is carried out by the IO in an unbiased manner so as to find out the real culprits and not to harass the complainant and the witness unnecessarily,” the order further said. The court also rapped the Delhi police for being “silent about the status of the investigation” being carried out by the IO in the present case. While noting that the report received from the DCP (North-East) does not disclose the exact status of further investigation in the case, “The IO is directed to produce the case diary, whereupon the IO has produced the case diary alongwith draft chargesheet in the present case”. The judge said that it “shows that the probe carried out in the case is far from satisfactory in as much as steps taken by the IO” for collection of various investigation material. The court also added that no plausible explanation has been given by the police for not collecting CDRs of all the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-pulls-up-police-for-harassing-delhi-riots-victim/article36850837.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt.’s ambitious HIMS project gets Cabinet go-ahead||The Delhi Cabinet gave financial nod to its ambitious Health Information Management System (HIMS) project. As part of the project, each citizen will have a health card, which will be a repository of their medical information. The government said doctors will be able to see a patient’s medical history using the card and the patients will be able to make appointments from home. The health card will act as a unique health identifier for each individual through which everything from their medical history to appointment dates can be accessed. All citizens between 1 and 18 years would be issued a health card linked to their parent’s health card. All newborns (up to 1 year) would be linked to their mother’s health card. In a related development, the Cabinet approved Rs. 48.14 crore for procurement, distribution and transportation of foodgrains for citizens without ration cards residing in the Capital. This decision, the government said, would benefit about 40 lakh non-PDS beneficiaries in Delhi. On May 25, it was decided by the Delhi Cabinet to provide free dry ration (foodgrains) to the people in need. The non-PDS foodgrains in Delhi will be distributed to the target beneficiaries through the identified location or school. About 16,000 metric tonnes of wheat and 4,000 metric tonnes of rice would be required by the government to provide free ration to 40 lakh non-PDS beneficiaries. Rs. 2.1 crore on transport The government will buy this ration from the Food Corporation of India and Rs. 42.4 crore will be spent on the purchase. About Rs. 2.1 crore will be spent on transportation among the major share of expenses. An MoU between IIT Kanpur and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee was also approved by the Cabinet. According to the government, the agreement is related to the technology that will allow accurate information about the real-time source of air pollution in Delhi to be made available. Also, sources of air pollution will be tracked in real time. A forecast will be issued for air pollution management in Delhi. CM Arvind Kejriwal said this will go a long way in identifying and resolving various factors of Delhi’s pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govts-ambitious-hims-project-gets-cabinet-go-ahead/article36850840.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||After DU’s high first cut-off list, AUD offers a ray of hope||Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) on Tuesday released its first cut-off list for admissions into various undergraduate programmes. The university’s cut-off is lower than that set by the University of Delhi, giving hope to many students from the NCR to secure a seat. The highest cut-off was declared for BA (Hons.) with a major in psychology for which, the university has set a cut-off for NCT candidates at 98.75%, and for candidates from outside Delhi at 99.5%. Reserved seats The university reserves 85% of its seats for candidates from the NCR and therefore, released two cut-off percentages in the general category — one for students from the NCR and the other for students outside the NCR. The university also released a merit list of applicants who had cleared the cut-off in various categories as a “provisional admission” list based on the marks entered by the candidates while filling the application form. For BA (Hons) Economics, the cut-off for NCT candidates is 97.25% and for candidates from outside Delhi 97.75%. For BA (Hons) English, the university has set the mark for NCT candidates at 97.50% and for candidates from outside Delhi at 97.50%. For BA (Hons) History, the cut-off is 96.75% for NCT candidates and 98.50% for candidates from outside Delhi. BA (Hons) Mathematics has cut-off at 94.25% for NCT candidates and 95.25% for candidates from outside Delhi. For BA (Hons) Hindi, the university has set the cut-off for NCT candidates at 81.75% and for candidates from outside Delhi at 82.25%. Two campuses At the Kashmere Gate campus, AUD offers BA (Hons) with a major in English, economics, history, mathematics, psychology, sociology, social science and humanities, and Hindi. It also offers a degree in Bachelor of Business administration. At the Karampura campus, it offers BVoc in retail management, tourism and hospitality, accounting and finance, and early childhood centre management and entrepreneurship. The campus also offers BA in global studies, law and politics, social sciences and humanities and sustainable urbanism. According to the admission process by the university, those candidates that have made it to the first list will have to get their documents verified physically on campus between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on October 6 and 7. The last day for payment is October 7. The second cut-off list is scheduled to be out on October 8. AUD said that it may release up to six cut-off lists depending on how many seats remain vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-dus-high-first-cut-off-list-aud-offers-a-ray-of-hope/article36850833.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Petition alleging non-compliance of IT rules by Twitter infructuous’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday closed proceedings in a petition alleging non-compliance of new IT rules by Twitter, saying that “nothing remained” in view of the Central government being satisfied with the micro-blogging platform appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person. Justice Rekha Palli further noted that Twitter has already dealt with the complaint raised by the petitioner — lawyer Amit Acharya — with regards to certain objectionable tweets and thus the petition has become infructuous. While disposing of the petition, the judge also clarified that the petitioner was free to take appropriate legal recourse against the action taken by Twitter on his complaint against the allegedly objectionable tweets. “What remains in this? Nothing remains now.. Prayers are satisfied. You challenge the order if you have a grievance,” observed the judge. “Respondent No 1 (Centre) has filed an affidavit categorically stating that Respondent No 2 (Twitter) is fully complying with the IT Rules. In view of the aforesaid, which is not denied by the petitioner, nothing further survives,” the court said. The IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyberspace, including social media platforms and were notified in February by the Central government. Last month, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) had told the court that Twitter has appointed CCO, RGO, and Nodal Contact Person in compliance with the new IT Rules. ‘Firm’s employees’ In its affidavit, the Centre stated that Twitter has clearly acknowledged that the personnel (CCO, Nodal Contact Person, and RGO) are appointed as the company’s employees and not as ‘contingent workers’. “Twitter has provided the names of the said appointed personnel and their respective positions also. The said affidavit (of Twitter) mentions their employment start date as August 4, 2021.Twitter has further enclosed their employment contracts along with the said affidavit as proof of such appointments,” the ministry said. The court had on August 10 directed the Centre to file a short affidavit in response to Twitter’s affidavit in which the company had shown compliance with IT Rules. “I submit that Twitter has appointed the personnel in compliance to the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 hereinafter referred as IT Rules, 2021,” N. Samaya Balan, working as Scientist-E in the Cyber Law Group with the MEITY, had said in the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-alleging-non-compliance-of-it-rules-by-twitter-infructuous/article36850579.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. identifies 150 air pollution hotspots||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said the government has identified 150 air pollution hotspots compared to 13 last year. These points will be strictly monitored, he said.  He added that a “Green War Room” — from where authorities will be monitoring air pollution and coordinating with other departments — will function 24x7 during winter. “The results of the Green Delhi app since its launch last year have been appreciable. We received 27,000 complaints, of which more than 23,000 complaints have been successfully resolved. We have been receiving most of the complaints from three departments — municipal corporation, DDA, and PWD. The process of working with the Green Delhi app for about a year has enabled us to mark 150 such hotspots now,” Mr. Rai said. He said the “Green War Room” is the central point of contact. The government, however, did not release the list of the hotspots. The government launched the app in October last year where citizens can file complaints about air pollution causing activities such as garbage burning, dust due to construction activities, industrial activities etc. and even upload photos and videos. “Last year, the app was launched for Android phones, but today onwards, iOS phones can access the app as well,” the Minister said. The war room was also started last year by the Delhi government to monitor pollution and coordinate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-identifies-150-air-pollution-hotspots/article36850847.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Take concrete steps to tackle pollution: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday demanded that the Delhi government take concrete steps to tackle pollution during winter. He demanded that new buses be bought, roads be repaired on a war footing and flyovers and underpasses be built at points identified as congestion hotspots. “The Delhi government cannot shirk its responsibility by rhetoric, lies, and blaming others. The Capital has become the most polluted city in the world in the last seven years. In the World Air Quality Report, Delhi has been declared as the most polluted city in the world for the third consecutive year,” he said. “This is the situation when people were indoors due to the pandemic for the last one-and-a-half years. Despite the city being in such a dire situation, the government is not taking any concrete steps to deal with the problem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/take-concrete-steps-to-tackle-pollution-bjp/article36850835.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for piracy of NCERT books||A 38-year-old man has been arrested for his alleged involvement in printing pirated NCERT books, the police said on Tuesday. Lakhs of students seem to have fallen prey to pirated NCERT books being floated in the market. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Rajesh Deo said that these books are injurious to children’s health as the ink used on the paper is cheap and harmful. “We have sought remand of the accused and are trying to ascertain the number of books already floated in the market and whether the content of the books was same as original ones,” he said. The police said that information was received that a publication unit involved in printing pirated NCERT books is operating in trans-Yamuna area. “These poor quality pirated books are being supplied in the market at cheaper rates causing huge revenue loss to NCERT. The offset unit has been publishing pirated books of different subjects for Classes VI to XII,” Mr. Deo said. A team was constituted, including NCERT officials, and a raid was conducted in Mandoli on September 19, he said. The police said that a large number of finished and semi-finished books were seized. The owner of the manufacturing unit, Manoj Jain, was absconding at the time of the raid and was arrested on October 4. The accused is a college drop-out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-piracy-of-ncert-books/article36850834.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Court refuses to grant bail to Sushil Kumar||Noting that Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar was “prima facie visible” in a video and seems to be causing “severe injuries” to fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankar, a Delhi court dismissed his bail plea on Tuesday. “As per the chargesheet, it was a daring and awful act of the accused persons for causing such brutal injuries to the victim without having any fear, and as per the chargesheet, they are having firearms a well as other weapons like sticks, etc.,” Additional Sessions Judge Shivaji Anand said, while dismissing the bail application. In his bail plea, Mr. Kumar, through his advocate Pradeep Rana, claimed that the police had built a false case and presented his “guilty image”. The wrestler was arrested on May 23 after he and his co-accused allegedly assaulted and killed fellow wrestler Dhankar in the parking lot of the city’s Chhatrasal Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-refuses-to-grant-bail-to-sushil-kumar/article36850838.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||E-rickshaw driver held for murder||An e-rickshaw driver was stabbed to death allegedly by another in south-east Delhi’s Sarita Vihar on Monday night, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (South-East) Esha Pandey said the accused, Avdesh alias Pappu, has been arrested. The deceased has been identified as Arvind. On Monday night, Arvind’s e-rickshaw brushed against Avdesh’s following which an argument ensued. The argument turned violent when Avdesh stabbed Arvind. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further probe is under way, the police said.  The accused, Avdesh alias Pappu, has been arrested Esha Pandey Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/e-rickshaw-driver-held-for-murder/article36850843.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Three months after death, family waits for answers||Three months after a 50-year-old man was allegedly found dead on a railway track at Faridabad railway station after being picked up for questioning by Ambedkar Nagar police, the family of the deceased staged a protest outside the office of DCP (South) on Tuesday. The family said that they want an FIR to be registered in the matter and that they have been meeting senior officers for the last three months but their requests have fallen on deaf years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-months-after-death-family-waits-for-answers/article36850841.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Nikhil- Covid||The city reported 37 new COVID-19 cases and zero death in 24 hours, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The total number of cases stood at 14,39,027 with the death toll touching 25,088. A total of 55,537 tests were done and the test positivity rate was 0.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nikhil-covid/article36850845.ece
06 October 2021||Noida,||Supertech case: complaint lodged with vigilance dept.||The New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) has filed a complaint with the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Department for lodging an FIR against the people involved in the illegal construction of Supertech’s twin towers here, officials said on Tuesday. Altogether, 26 officials of NOIDA, four directors of real estate developer Supertech Group, and two architects have been named as accused in the complaint, the officials said. NOIDA CEO Ritu Maheshwari confirmed the development and said the authority will be going ahead with demolition planning of the twin towers that have come up in Sector 93A of the city in violation of building norms. The Supreme Court, which had ordered the demolition of the under-construction 40-storey towers on August 31, on Monday quashed a “modification application” filed by Supertech Group. While delivering its August 31 verdict, the apex court had set a three-month timeline for NOIDA to raze down the towers. “Yes, the authority shall try to plan and have [the order] implemented as per the SC directions,” Ms. Maheshwari said. Officials said the State Vigilance Department shall now lodge an FIR on the basis of the complaint and take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/supertech-case-complaint-lodged-with-vigilance-dept/article36850831.ece
06 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Human-croc conflict impacting life in Odisha||Saltwater crocodiles, whosepopulation is booming in the wild after four decades of conservation near the Odisha coast, are now out to explore new territories, fuelling a conflict between the large semi-aquatic reptiles and humans. Officially, the total human casualty in this human-crocodile interaction over the past 12 years is 26. As many as 22 persons have escaped with grievous injuries in crocodile attacks in Rajanagar Mangrove Forest Division in Kendrapara district during this period. The number of human casualties and injuries, however, do not reflect the severity of the crisis. But, the nagging fear of the crocodile that has crept into mind of people appears to have impacted the way of life of riparian communities in Kendrapara. Nrusingha Swain (49), a lecturer in a private college hailing from Nilakanthapur village situated on the bank of Brahmani river in Patamundai block of the district, had never imagined that one day he would have to avoid the very river, around which his life was once centered. “I have grown up taking baths and swimming in Brahmani. Now, the river is too dangerous to tread into. This year we have lost a young man from our village to a crocodile. Three to four crocodiles are frequently found floating in the river water. Villagers have just stopped entering the river water,” said Mr. Sahu. Though swimming is an expertise every riverside villager learns from childhood, he has not let his son train in the essential life skill due to fear of the crocodile. Bikram Keshari Khanndai of Sidhabali said the distance between block headquarters and his village is four km if he crosses Brahmani by a country boat. But villagers prefer to take the longer 15 km route to reach Patamundai. Saltwater crocodile rearing started in Bhitarkanika National Park in 1975. Following diligent conservation programme, the crocodile numbers has increased to 1,768 this year, constituting India’s largest wild crocodile population. During past few years, crocodiles are found frequently straying into ponds and canal systems which had been used by people for years together. Crocodile in pond Last month, an eight-feet long crocodile strayed into Vektakolla village under Rajanagar block after climbing a 15-ft-high river embankment. The reptile entered a village pond. After a lot of efforts, the crocodile was caught. Since then, villagers are scared of stepping out of their homes. It is not isolated case. The fear was deeply entrenched in villages situated in a 30 km radius of the national park. The lurking danger has forced farmers to stop growing paddy and vegetables in riparian zones, which are very fertile. The agriculture has also been a casualty in the conflict. The Forest department has created barricaded enclosures in rivers, canals and ponds to ensure safe bathing for the people. But, 107 bathing enclosures are quite inadequate for thousands of villagers. J. D. Pati, Divisional Forest Officer of Rajnagar Mangrove Division, admits straying of crocodiles from Bhitarakanika to other areas. Long-distance migration “Earlier, it was observed that crocodiles used to undertake upward migration from 5 km to 10 km distance. Due to heavy rain this year under influence of low pressure areas, we have found crocodiles migrating from 17 km to 23 km towards mainland,” he pointed out. “Over the years, the number of male adult crocodiles has increased. Like tigers those have territorial range, male crocodiles are trying to establish their own range. They are exploring new territories,” Mr. Pati elaborated. “We have to find out why they are migrating. There are many fresh water ponds along the coast. During tidal surge, sea water enters these water-bodies. The condition becomes suitable for fishes to grow. The number of abandoned ponds and ponds being created under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme has also gone up. It is one of the reasons that crocodiles are migrating from their habitats in search of fish,” he pointed out. Prof. Sushil Kumar Dutta, a renowned zoologist, said, “area of the present habitat is falling short for swelling crocodile population. It is normal that these reptiles would go on searching for new areas. For scientific intervention, one has to study carrying capacity of water-bodies in the park.” Stating that the man-crocodile encounter is here to stay, Prof. Dutta said, “the government in consultation with riparian communities must find out a solution to reduce the interaction.” According to environmentalist Biswajit Mohanty, the disturbance caused by tourists’ boats inside Bhitarkanika National Park was forcing the crocodiles to look for quieter places. Enclosures for cattle Apart from safe bathing ghats, villagers demand setting up of large enclosures inside river as temporary measures so that children could find space to learn swimming. Separate enclosures for cattle were also demanded as crocodiles were found preying on the domestic animals. One of the steps suggested by experts to reduce crocodile population is its redistribution into wetlands of entire mangrove forests of Bhitarakanika and Mahanadi river system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/human-croc-conflict-impacting-life-in-odisha/article36850578.ece
06 October 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta University regains much of its old charm||These days, regular visitors to the University of Calcutta’s main campus on College Street — returning to the heritage buildings on official work after the long gap forced by the COVID-19 pandemic — often wonder in disbelief: have we come to the right place? Gone is the look one associates with a typical university campus in Kolkata: weather-worn buildings reeking of neglect, rickety furniture, walls painted with (and also reverberating with) political slogans, a place accustomed to seeing more demonstrations outside the classroom than inside. Today the campus, dating back to January 1857, has witnessed a rebirth. The restoration began in 2017 but since the premises have reopened after a prolonged closure, the process appears overnight to visitors. The most impressive changes have taken place in the Darbhanga Building (it was the king of Darbhanga who had donated generously for the setting up of the university), which serves as the administrative wing of the university and is the oldest existing structure. The Senate Hall, Syndicate Hall and the Vice-Chancellor’s office, all located in this building, have undergone a total transformation. Long-time employees and regular visitors insist that these places were in a pathetic condition. A tea-seller had made himself at home in the Senate Hall, he would go around selling tea. The whole building looked as if on the verge of collapse. “In 2015, when I was the pro-VC (finance) and when a UGC (University Grants Commission) team was visiting us, I strongly demanded that funds be given to us for renovation. It was a crying historical need,” Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, a former student and professor at the university and the driving force behind the renovation, told The Hindu . Her elevation as the V-C in 2017 saw the project finally taking off. By 2020, with COVID-19 keeping away distractions, the restoration was complete. Restored paintings Today the wide corridors and staircases are clean and once again imposing under the gaze of dignitaries associated with the university — whose busts have been rescued from different corners of the campus. The Senate Hall is a treat for visitors: countless restored rattan chairs sit there, neatly arranged in rows of three, overlooked by restored paintings of dignitaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/calcutta-university-regains-much-of-its-old-charm/article36850576.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/festival-time/article36850581.ece
06 October 2021||Paris,||‘Massive child sex abuse in French Catholic Church’||French Catholic clergy sexually abused around 2,16,000 minors spanning seven decades since 1950, a “massive phenomenon” that was covered up by a “veil of silence”, an independent commission said on Tuesday. The commission's two-and-a-half-year inquiry and 2,500-page report prompted outrage as the Catholic Church in France and around the world faces a growing number of abuse claims and prosecutions. Pope Francis expressed “great pain” over the “appalling” findings, a Vatican spokesman said, adding: “His thoughts turn first to the victims, with great sorrow for their wounds and gratitude for their courage in speaking out.” The report found that the “vast majority” of victims were pre-adolescent boys from a variety of social backgrounds. Their abusers were mainly priests, bishops, deacons and monks. When claims against lay members of the Church, such as teachers at Catholic schools are included, the number of child abuse victims climbs to 3,30,000 since 1950, the report found. ‘Worrying report’ “These figures are more than worrying, they are damning and in no way can remain without a response,” commission chief Jean-Marc Sauve told a press conference that unveiled the nearly 2,500-page report. “Until the early 2000s, the Catholic Church showed a profound and even cruel indifference towards the victims.” Archbishop Eric de Moulins-Beaufort, president of the Bishops’ Conference of France (CEF), which co-requested the report, expressed his “shame and horror” at the findings. Mr. Sauve denounced the “systemic character” of efforts to shield clergy from sex abuse claims and urged the Church to pay reparations even though most cases are well beyond the statute of limitations for prosecution. His commission detailed 45 recommendations to avoid further abuse, not least a requirement that priests inform prosecutors of any child abuse during the sacrament of confession — under Catholic doctrine priests are usually bound to absolute secrecy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/massive-child-sex-abuse-in-french-catholic-church/article36850269.ece
06 October 2021||Moscow,||Filming first movie in space||A Russian actor and a director on Tuesday arrived at the International Space Station (ISS) in a bid to best the United States and film the first movie in orbit. The Russian crew is set to beat a Hollywood project that was announced last year byMission Impossiblestar Tom Cruise together with NASA and Elon Musk’s SpaceX. Actor Yulia Peresild, 37, and film director Klim Shipenko, 38, took off from the Russia-leased Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan as scheduled. But they belatedly docked at the ISS after veteran cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov switched to manual control.  The crew travelled in a Soyuz MS-19 spaceship for a 12-day mission at the ISS to film scenes forThe Challenge. The movie’s plot cen- tres around a woman surgeon who is dispatched to the ISS to save a cosmonaut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/filming-first-movie-in-space/article36850274.ece
06 October 2021||Taipei,||Tsai warns of ‘catastrophic consequences’ if Taiwan falls||Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen warned of “catastrophic consequences” if the island were to fall to China and vowed to “do whatever it takes” to guard against threats in an article published on Tuesday. Taiwan lives under the constant threat of invasion by China, which views the self-ruled democratic island as its territory to be re-taken one day, by force if necessary. President Xi Jinping has described the seizure of Taiwan as “inevitable” and Beijing has ramped up military, diplomatic and economic pressure since Ms. Tsai’s 2016 election, as she views the island as “already independent” and not part of a “one China”. Nearly 150 Chinese warplanes had breached Taiwan’s ADIZ since Friday when Beijing marked its National Day with its then-biggest aerial show of force, buzzing the island with 38 planes. Ms. Tsai warned that a failure to defend Taiwan would be “catastrophic” for both the island and the wider region in an article she wrote for Foreign Affairs published on Tuesday. “They should remember that if Taiwan were to fall, the consequences would be catastrophic for regional peace and the democratic alliance system,” she said. “It would signal that in today’s global contest of values, authoritarianism has the upper hand over democracy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tsai-warns-of-catastrophic-consequences-if-taiwan-falls/article36850277.ece
06 October 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka to reform terror law to keep EU trade deal||Sri Lanka’s President vowed “immediate steps” to amend anti-terror legislation to retain a lucrative trade status with the European Union, his office said on Tuesday. The EU had warned Sri Lanka that its generalised system of preferences (GSP Plus) — a favourable trade scheme to encourage developing nations to respect human rights—could be withdrawn if Colombo did not improve its rights record. Gotabaya Rajapaksa told a visiting EU delegation on Monday that he had instructed the Justice Minister and the Attorney General to carry out urgent reforms to the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA). The law allows police to arrest and detain suspects for long periods. Confessions extracted from suspects can be used against them, and many have been held for decades without charge. “Immediate steps will be taken to amend the necessary provisions of the PTA,” Mr. Rajapaksa’s office quoted him as saying. “President Rajapaksa also stated that the country would abide by the agreements on human rights in the world today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-reform-terror-law-to-keep-eu-trade-deal/article36850268.ece
06 October 2021||Kabul,||Some Afghan girls return to secondary school||Girls have returned to some secondary schools in a northern province of Afghanistan, Taliban officials and teachers said on Tuesday, but they remain barred from classrooms in much of the country. The new hard-line government also announced at a stage-managed rally that some women civil servants have been called back to work and a backlog of salaries would be paid, signs the Islamists may be trying to soften their public image after 50 days in power. A video posted by the group’s spokesman Suhail Shaheen showed dozens of schoolgirls in black, some wearing white head scarves and others with black face veils, sat in chairs waving Taliban flags. ‘No policy change’ “Girls are going to high schools in Khan Abad, Kunduz Province,” tweeted Doha-based Shaheen, who has been nominated as the new Afghan government’s permanent representative to the United Nations. But in Kabul, Education Ministry official Mohammad Abid said there had been no policy change from the Taliban’s interim central government, telling AFP on Tuesday: “High schools still remain closed for girls.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/some-afghan-girls-return-to-secondary-school/article36850275.ece
06 October 2021||Paris,||Blinken meets Macron to repair AUKUS damage||French President Emmanuel Macron and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met on Tuesday to explore potential cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and other areas as the Biden administration moved to repair damage caused to relations by excluding France from a new security initiative with Australia and the U.K., known as AUKUS. A U.S. State Department official said the two discussed possible joint projects that could be announced by Mr. Macron and President Joe Biden when they meet later this month in Europe at a date and specific venue that has yet to be decided. The official didn’t elaborate on what those projects might be, but said they would likely involve the Indo-Pacific and Western efforts to blunt China’s growing there and elsewhere, NATO and other transatlantic objectives involving the European Union, and counterterrorism cooperation in Africa’s Sahel region. The official said Mr. Macron and Mr. Blinken had agreed to use the spat as an opportunity to “deepen and strengthen coordination”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-meets-macron-to-repair-aukus-damage/article36850278.ece
06 October 2021||Sydney,||Over 100 musicians flee Afghanistan||More than 100 music students and teachers have fled Afghanistan in a nail-biting flight from Kabul following the Taliban’s takeover of the country, their institute’s founder and principal said. Fearing a crackdown on music by the country’s new leaders, 101 members of Afghanistan’s top musical institute landed in Doha on Sunday, Ahmad Sarmast said. The group, about half of them women and girls, plan to fly to Portugal with the support of the government there, said Mr. Sarmast, founder of the Afghanistan National Institu- te of Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-100-musicians-flee-afghanistan/article36850272.ece
06 October 2021||Seoul,||N. Korea pursues weapons despite Covid blockade: UN report||North Korea has continued to pursue its weapons development programmes despite facing a worsening economic situation due to its self-imposed coronavirus blockade, a new United Nations report has said. Pyongyang is under multiple sets of international sanctions over its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, which have seen rapid progress under current leader Kim Jong-un.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-pursues-weapons-despite-covid-blockade-un-report/article36850271.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||RBI microfinance proposals that are anti-poor||In June 2021, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) published a “Consultative Document on Regulation of Microfinance” (https://bit.ly/3ixTIH3). While the declared objective of this review is to promote the financial inclusion of the poor and competition among lenders, the likely impact of the recommendations is unfavourable to the poor. If implemented, they will result in an expansion of microfinance lending by private financial institutions, in the provision of credit at high rates of interest to the poor, and in huge profits for private lenders. The recommendations The consultative document recommends that the current ceiling on rate of interest charged by non-banking finance company-microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) or regulated private microfinance companies needs to be done away with, as it is biased against one lender (NBFC-MFIs) among the many (commercial banks, small finance banks, and NBFCs). It proposes that the rate of interest be determined by the governing board of each agency, and assumes that “competitive forces” will bring down interest rates. Not only has the RBI abandoned any initiative to expand low-cost credit through public sector commercial banks to the rural poor, the bulk of whom are rural women (as most loans are given to members of women’s groups), but, in addition, it also proposes to de-regulate the rate of interest charged by private microfinance agencies. According to current guidelines, the ‘maximum rate of interest rate charged by an NBFC-MFI shall be the lower of the following: the cost of funds plus a margin of 10% for larger MFIs (a loan portfolio of over Rs. 100 crore) and 12% for others; or the average base rate of the five largest commercial banks multiplied by 2.75’. In June 2021, the average base rate announced by the RBI was 7.98%. A quick look at the website of some Small Finance Banks (SFBs) and NBFC-MFIs showed that the “official” rate of interest on microfinance was between 22% and 26% — roughly three times the base rate. Crucial for rural households Microfinance is becoming increasingly important in the loan portfolio of poorer rural households. In a study of two villages from southern Tamil Nadu, done by the Foundation for Agrarian Studies, we found that a little more than half of the total borrowing by households resident in these two villages was of unsecured or collateral-free loans from private financial agencies (SFBs, NBFCs, NBFC-MFIs and some private banks). There was a clear differentiation by caste and socio-economic class in terms of source and purpose of borrowing. First, unsecured microfinance loans from private financial agencies were of disproportionate significance to the poorest households — to poor peasants and wage workers, to persons from the Scheduled Castes and Most Backward Classes. Second, these microfinance loans were rarely for productive activity and almost never for any group-based enterprise, but mainly for house improvement and meeting basic consumption needs. Our data showed that poor borrowers took microfinance loans, at reported rates of interest of 22% to 26% a year, to meet day-to-day expenses and costs of house repair. How does this compare with credit from public sector banks and cooperatives? Crop loans from Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in Tamil Nadu had a nil or zero interest charge if repaid in eight months. Kisan credit card loans from banks were charged 4% per annum (9% with an interest subvention of 5%) if paid in 12 months (or a penalty rate of 11%). Other types of loans from scheduled commercial banks carried an interest rate of 9%-12% a year. As even the RBI now recognises, the rate of interest charged by private agencies on microfinance is the maximum permissible, a rate of interest that is a far cry from any notion of cheap credit. A loan breakup, violations The actual cost of microfinance loans is even higher for several reasons. First, on account of the method of repayment: a loan of, say, Rs. 30,000 from an NBFC-MFI has to be repaid in 24 equal monthly instalments of Rs. 1,640. Every month, a principal of Rs. 1,250 and an interest of Rs. 390 is repaid. In the first month, the simple interest on this loan is 15.6% per annum but by the end of the first year, the interest rate is 31%. This is because every month the principal is reduced (by Rs. 1,250) but the interest charge is the same. In short, an “official” flat rate of interest used to calculate equal monthly instalments actually implies a rising effective rate of interest over time. In addition, a processing fee of 1% is added and the insurance premium is deducted from the principal. As the principal is insured in case of death or default of the borrower or spouse, there can be no argument that a high interest rate is in response to a high risk of default. Does the borrower understand this mechanism? In line with RBI regulations, we found that all borrowers had a repayment card with the monthly repayment schedules. On their regular visit, the loan collector would tick off the instalment paid. This does not mean that borrowers understood the charges. Further, contrary to the RBI guideline of “no recovery at the borrower’s residence”, collection was at the doorstep. Note that a shift to digital transactions refers only to the sanction of a loan, as repayment is entirely in cash. Many borrowers said the debt collector used bad language in a loud voice, shaming them in front of their neighbours. If the borrower is unable to pay the instalment, other members of the group have to contribute, with the group leader taking responsibility. In our survey, there was no organic connection of microfinance to any group activity or enterprise. As an agent of a NBFC-MFI told us, “we have used the groups formed earlier for other activities solely to show that we lend to a group”. The shift now While microfinance lending has been in place since the 1990s, what is different about the recent phase of growth of financial services is that the privately-owned for-profit financial agencies are “regulated entities”. In fact, they have been promoted by the RBI. Lending by small finance banks (SFBs) to NBFC-MFIs has been recently included in priority sector advances. And, post-COVID-19, the cost of funds supplied to NBFC-MFIs was lowered, but with no additional restrictions on the interest rate or other parameters affecting the final borrower. In the 1990s, microcredit was given by scheduled commercial banks either directly or via non-governmental organisations to women’s self-help groups, but given the lack of regulation and scope for high returns, several for-profit financial agencies such as NBFCs and MFIs emerged. By the mid-2000s, there were widespread accounts of the malpractices of MFIs (such as SKS and Bandhan), and a crisis in some States such as Andhra Pradesh, arising out of a rapid and unregulated expansion of private for-profit micro-lending. The microfinance crisis of Andhra Pradesh led the RBI to review the matter, and based on the recommendations of the Malegam Committee, a new regulatory framework for NBFC-MFIs was introduced in December 2011. A few years later, the RBI permitted a new type of private lender, SFBs, with the objective of taking banking activities to the “unserved and underserved” sections of the population. Today, as the RBI’s consultative document notes, 31% of microfinance is provided by NBFC-MFIs, and another 19% by SFBs and 9% by NBFCs. These private financial institutions have grown exponentially over the last few years, garnering high profits, and at this pace, the current share of public sector banks in microfinance (the SHG-bank linked microcredit), of 41%, is likely to fall sharply. The proposals in the RBI’s consultative document will lead to a further privatisation of rural credit, reducing the share of direct and cheap credit from banks and leaving poor borrowers at the mercy of private financial agencies. This is beyond comprehension at a time of widespread post-pandemic distress among the working poor. The All India Democratic Women’s Association, in its response to this document, has raised concerns about the implications for women borrowers and demanded that the rate of interest on microfinance not exceed 12% per annum. To meet the credit needs of poorer households, we need a policy reversal: strengthening of public sector commercial banks and firm regulation of private entities. Madhura Swaminathan is Professor, Indian Statistical Institute, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rbi-microfinance-proposals-that-are-anti-poor/article36850258.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The challenge of going back to school||After one and a half years of being shut, schools are re-opening in most States. A majority of the children enrolled in school before the pandemic have most likely had limited or no structured learning opportunities during this period. That reality is all the more jarring because the more privileged sections, representing a minority, were able to ensure continuity of education through online classes provided by schools, support from family, and increased spending on tuition and tutoring apps. Leaving no child behind Despite the scale of the shock to the education system, a review of the State governments’ Standard Operating Procedures/guidelines on school re-opening shows that the emphasis is on health and sanitation measures. There is very little discussion on the practical approaches required to ensure that every child returns to school and to address the learning difficulties that children will face. Across the world, guidance on school re-opening centres around certain principles. The first is a strong focus on equity. Special efforts must be made for children from disadvantaged backgrounds, who were disconnected during the pandemic, so that they can return to school in an environment that fosters belonging. The second is effective and regular communication with parents. The third is to support student’s socio-emotional development. The fourth is to re-organise the curriculum to reinforce core academic skills, focusing on language learning and mathematics, especially in the elementary years. The fifth is to extend learning time and hire additional teachers where needed. The sixth is to enhance training and regular support for teachers. And finally, to secure additional funding to address the crisis. Let us start with the issue of additional funding for education. A recent study by the World Bank and UNESCO shows that, for a sample of 29 high-income, lower-middle-income and low-income countries across the world, the average annual education budgets not only increased post-COVID-19 but increased at a higher rate than before COVID-19 (4% post-COVID-19 compared to 1.1 % before the pandemic). In the group of 14 lower-middle-income countries to which India belongs, five countries (Bangladesh, Morocco, Nigeria, the Philippines, and Ukraine) increased their spending substantially. Three countries (Egypt, Pakistan and Tanzania) held their spending constant or reduced it marginally. Four countries (Kenya, Kyrgyz Republic, Myanmar and Nepal) reduced their spending by between 1% and 6%. India reduced its spending by over 9 %, along with Uzbekistan. This comes on top of a 2% decline in education spending in India in the previous year. The share of spending on education in the overall budget also declined to 2.6%, while most countries either maintained or increased this share. It is difficult to envisage how an emergency of the scale and depth seen in India can be addressed with fewer resources. Even the task of bringing every child back to school in India is a herculean one and requires detailed planning. First, millions of migrant children saw their education disrupted. Their numbers are not known – how many went back to their home States, how many rejoined schools there, or how many returned. Many of these children may now be working to support families who have lost their livelihoods. Second, close to 40% of school students in India are in private schools. Most of them are in ‘low-cost’ schools for the poor, which have been buffeted by the crisis. Over 60% of government and private school principals in India stated that their schools suffered from dropouts and face financial challenges, according to a recent survey (Global School Leaders and Alokit, report forthcoming). The School Children’s Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey covering 15 States and Union Territories, conducted in August 2021, revealed that over 25% of children who had previously been enrolled in private schools had switched to government schools. If this ratio is approximately correct for the country, we might expect a transfer of about 20 million children from private to government schools. On the academic front, many States have announced short ‘bridge courses’, sometimes as short as 45 days. The goal is to resume the textbook-based syllabus of the current grade of the child as soon as possible. Examination timetables are being drawn up, as if nothing happened. These unrealistic expectations are being framed in the face of overwhelming evidence of the devastating learning losses suffered by children, especially disadvantaged groups (see research brief of the National Coalition on Education Emergency, for example). The SCHOOL survey showed that 42% of students in grades 3-5 in villages and urban bastis could only read a few letters. Only 55% of students in grades 6-8 could fluently read a simple conversational sentence. The required knowledge of academic language in the upper primary/lower secondary grades would be all but lacking. Language learning, especially reading with comprehension, is critical for ensuring progress in all subjects. While children are struggling to read in their native language, in many States, the majority of children are studying in English-medium schools, both government and private. Learning in a second language is difficult in the best of circumstances. In the majority of the English-medium schools, teachers are not proficient in English and the students have no home exposure to the language. Research from the U.S. during the early stages of the pandemic showed that the proportion of ‘English language learners’ (i.e., those with limited proficiency in English) obtaining ‘failing grades’ increased dramatically within just a few months of school closures and despite the provision of structured online learning. Imagine the situation for tens of millions of children in India who had limited or no exposure to English – their language of instruction – for months. The loss in mathematics skills can be even more precipitous. Studies from other countries show that learning losses over the summer break of about two months are more severe in mathematics compared to reading (in the native language). Over such short periods, the loss may involve forgetting mathematics procedures rather than general concepts. But much deeper losses in conceptual understanding can be expected after a loss of structured instruction over a 18-month period. Support for teachers The guidance and support to teachers and schools, especially in elementary education, has to be to focus on language learning, core mathematical competences and socio-emotional learning. Teaching should not be driven by the sequence of chapters in the textbooks or the subjects in the syllabus. It would be necessary to restructure the ‘daily timetable’ to focus on these areas and provide additional instructional time. Support to teachers must be practical and regular, adopting a ‘coaching’ model, instead of mass teacher training programmes. This support must include additional learning materials and formative assessment tools and techniques. It may be necessary to mobilise retired teachers and volunteers also. All this requires long-term commitment, resources and organisational effort. Sajitha Bashir, former Adviser and Manager in the World Bank’s Global Education Practice, is part of the National Coalition on Education Emergency info@educationemergency.net||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-challenge-of-going-back-to-school/article36850267.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||With AUKUS, India must keep its head above water||The announcement by the United States of a trilateral ‘enhanced security partnership’ involving Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States (AUKUS) has taken everyone by surprise, competitors and allies alike. With close partners on both sides, India has maintained an ambiguous stand on the issue. A lot of commentary since has talked of how this is a welcome step for India to access technologies, build complementarities and so on. While it does present opportunities, the flip side is that AUKUS represents a threshold breach and could pose unique challenges for India, depending on how China responds to it, and the issue spiralling. A different game now The decision by the U.S. to make a very rare exemption, even for its allies, to supply nuclear-powered attack submarines (SSN) takes the whole issue of arms transfers and containing China’s expansion to a new level. Submarines are the most potent and secretive military platform to asymmetrically counter an adversary and an SSN represents the pinnacle. The entry barrier for acquiring these is very steep, proven by how few countries possess them; and once that is breached, there is no technological leap to counter it but only incremental measures to negate it, which would nonetheless be another expensive endeavour. The U.S. has now set a precedence to this and how it unfolds and how long it remains an exception has to be seen. The next question is how will China, which has sharply reacted to the announcement of AUKUS, respond to this? Will it resort to further proliferation, in any manner, as it has done in the past, and likely involving its closest partner, Pakistan? If so, the only country in the region which will face the real implications of this is India; for the others, it is more of stated positions and rules-based order which are a matter of convenience and not of survival. The whole Pakistani missile and nuclear weapons programme and its proliferation trail are proof of it. Data leak The China threat notwithstanding, this development is as much, if not more, about the tussle between arms industries of the two sides which collectively dominate the global arms industry. A case in point is the leak, in 2016, of 22,000 pages of secret data on the capabilities of six Scorpene submarines being built for the Indian Navy by the French Naval Group (then DCNS) barely months after DCNS was declared the winner in the Australian tender, only to be thwarted by the U.S. five years later. While the real intention (of the leak) and those responsible may never be known, the fallout, though likely coincidental, was on India. The Naval Group had then said that it may have been the victim of “economic warfare.” India’s stand, China factor Another tangent that needs to be observed as the initiative takes shape is whether AUKUS is an attempt by the U.S. to position Australia as a ‘Net Security Provider’ in the Indo-Pacific. This is especially so given India’s reluctance to add a military dimension to the Quadrilateral grouping comprising India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. The Quad — as a grouping of major democracies in the Indo-Pacific — has seen momentum in terms of engagement in the last two years especially in the backdrop of a violent stand-off between India and China along the disputed boundary in Eastern Ladakh last year which is yet to be resolved. However, India has reiterated on several occasions that it sees the Quad as a platform for consultations at the political and diplomatic level but does not see a military dimension to it. So, with Australia and Japan being U.S. allies, the limiting factor for deepening military engagement for the Quad as a grouping, beyond a point, is India. Incidentally, the current Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh, since he assumed charge of the force in May 2019, had stated his reluctance in using the term ‘Net Security Provider’ and instead propagated the phrase, ‘Preferred Security Partner’. Probably the best articulation of this was put forward in May 2018 by his predecessor and then Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Sunil Lanba, while delivering a talk at the Vivekananda International Foundation. Responding to questions, he stated that there were “dependencies” for group members on China and also the “uncertainty” of America when push comes to shove. He said, “So I don’t think there is [a] need for a military dimension to Quad… We are not going down that route. And I don’t think there is [a] need to go down that route.” Admiral Lanba further said, “What do you think a military dimension will achieve? India is the only country in the Quad with a land border with China. In case of conflict... nobody will come and hold your hand.” The validation for this observation manifested itself in 2020 in the Himalayan ranges with a new normal now on the ground along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the trust between India and China along with the agreements that held it in tatters. More recently, on several occasions External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, while terming the Quad as a platform that looks at the future, has also echoed similar views. Speaking at the Raisina Dialogue in April, he categorically stated that Quad will not be an ‘Asian NATO’ and added that “people need to get over this....” He had also highlighted 10 broad subjects of cooperation including vaccine collaboration, climate action, emerging technologies, resilient supply chains, semiconductors, disinformation, counterterrorism and maritime security among others. The Quad versus AUKUS The outcome of the first ever in-person meeting of Quad leaders in the U.S. on September 24 only reinforces this trend. The Quad countries have outlined cooperation in several important areas including high technology; military cooperation and a mention of China were conspicuous in their absence. Essentially, the Quad is taking shape as an organisation of broader cooperation among the four countries, while AUKUS, for now, remains an organisation for high-end military trade. This only gives further credence that the U.S. may be preparing Australia for a greater military role in the Indo-Pacific. Afghanistan has shown that New Delhi cannot depend on or tag along with anyone to protect its national interests. Given the surprise and setback India received with the sudden exit of the U.S., the country can ill-afford to lower its guard by taking AUKUS at face value. While working with AUKUS through other platforms and advancing its own strategic cooperation with each of the countries, India also needs to offset any fallout of the development which will only unfold in the long term. dinakar.peri@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/with-aukus-india-must-keep-its-head-above-water/article36850260.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Met on the mat||The Metropolitan Police of London are in the news for the wrong reasons. The gruesome murder of a teacher, Sabina Nessa (28), when she was walking through a park in south-east London to meet her friend at a pub, has caused outrage. The police have been accused of negligence yet again. An Albanian garage worker has been held as a suspect. Diminishing trust in the police According to the media, since the death of Sarah Everard, a 33-year-old marketing executive, in March this year, at least 81 women have been killed in the U.K. where the suspects are men. Many critics bemoan the fact that women are not being protected despite the Met being led by a woman Commissioner, Dame Cressida Dick. What has added fuel to the fire is that a Met police officer, Wayne Couzens, was arrested for raping and murdering Everard. Couzens falsely arrested Everard on the charge of violating COVID-19 restrictions, forced her into a hired car, drove far away, raped her, strangled her and then burnt the body. Couzens had planned his barbaric crime for several weeks. Everard was a random target — a lone young woman negotiating a poorly lit area. It is appalling that despite being linked to two previous allegations of indecent exposure, Couzens had gone unpunished. This was culpable indifference on the part of senior officers. It is difficult to believe that this despicable behaviour had not been escalated to more senior officers. One is reminded of the senseless deaths of a father and son in Sattankulam in Tamil Nadu. They were arrested allegedly for keeping their shop open and thus violating lockdown restrictions. They later died in hospital, after being tortured by the police in custody. The police in the U.S. have a similar inglorious record. One cannot forget how in May 2020, a black man, George Floyd, was pinned to the ground by three police officers in Minneapolis until he died of suffocation. His crime was that he had bought cigarettes with a counterfeit bill at a convenience store. Two points emerge from these and other episodes, some of which are reported and many of which are buried stealthily. Police organisations in several parts of the world are not trusted for civilised and lawful behaviour. This is despite the many mechanisms that are in place that do not permit clandestine police actions against crime suspects. The numerous controls that have been established have not had the desired effect. A few unscrupulous and overzealous policemen are responsible for this sorry situation. Blame sometimes also lies at the door of a few in the political executive who misuse their authority to settle personal scores with their adversaries. The judiciary has tried to set right this distortion in the criminal justice system, but success has been marginal. The Chief Justice of India recently gave expression to his misgivings on police conduct. But deterrent punishments are not the answer; only a new culture of ethics can bring about visible transformation. Bringing about such a change will take decades and requires enlightened police as well as political leadership. Merely upgrading police technology, such as compulsory body cameras on patrol policemen and video recording of police station proceedings, without a corresponding change in mindset will not be enough. Perhaps most painful is the popular impression that women are easy prey to marauding policemen. It is unfortunate that the whole force gets a bad name because of a few deviants such as the senior officer in Tamil Nadu who is facing trial for sexual harassment of a female colleague. This is no justification, however, for showing any latitude to the police leadership or police officers. A possible example for all chiefs Met Commissioner Dick is a doughty warrior. She is the first woman to occupy this position. It is a travesty that a force headed by a distinguished woman officer is being accused of gender insensitivity. She has been facing calls to resign ever since the murder of Everard. But she has never shown inclination to step down. She apologised for the Met’s failure in recognising the danger posed by Couzens and said she would do everything in her power to ensure that the force has learned from “one of the most dreadful events” in its history. Her resolve to make London safer is impressive and could set an example for police chiefs everywhere. Many good choices have been made in several Indian cities. Commissioners are being credited with striking innovations in the area of response to distress calls from the public, especially women and the elderly. The pursuit of speed and professionalism in this regard is a never-ending challenge. Enormous government funding for additional infrastructure — both manpower and technology — can help shape a sleek and humane police force. But only marginally. R.K. Raghavan, former CBI Director, is Professor of Criminal Justice and Policing at the Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-met-on-the-mat/article36850264.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Crackdown there, hope here||Last year, China stopped Ant Group’s blockbuster initial public offering. This came as a shock to the world as Ant Group, Alibaba’s fintech arm, was on track to raise $37 billion and its valuation was reportedly nearing more than $300 billion. This episode was perceived as an attempt to rein in the successful entrepreneur, Jack Ma. Prior to this incident, he had committed one of the cardinal sins in modern China, which was to publicly criticise the government’s tech policy for stifling innovation. Clampdowns galore A year since, hardly a week goes by without the world hearing of yet another high-profile crackdown on a Chinese tech company. China has foisted sweeping regulations, antitrust and anti-monopoly lawsuits, cyber security probes, and algorithm controls on the entire tech segment, ranging from e-commerce websites, search engines, ride sharing and food delivery apps to e-learning portals. These clampdowns are estimated to have wiped off over $1.5 trillion of value from Chinese tech stocks. China’s obsessive efforts to ensure that no private entity gains enough data to ever be in a position to even remotely challenge Chinese Communist Party-led state dominance, and that no competing country gains access to the citizen database through any unforeseen means, drive much of this overhaul. We should not overlook the fact that these efforts are limited only to the consumer tech sector. State support to manufacturing and ‘hard’ tech industries, which are perceived to be of higher value, including 5G/6G, semiconductor chips, artificial intelligence, biotechnologies, batteries, aviation and space tech, has only increased. We are witnessing a conscious redirection of efforts to areas that would maximise China’s geopolitical and geo-economic gains. It would not be surprising to see more state-owned enterprises like ZTE and state-supported heavyweights like Huawei focus on strategic high technology and attempt to be pioneers in the global market. These developments could be beneficial for India. The rate of digitisation accelerated during the pandemic in India. Start-ups here raised a record $10.46 billion in the first half of this year alone. India’s tally of unicorns has crossed 60. This trajectory and India’s projected growth will make the country the first destination of the funds fleeing Chinese stocks during these crackdowns. However, mirroring the U.S. start-up ecosystem, India’s emphasis too is on consumer tech, from which China is tactically distancing itself. Not to be forgotten, the U.S. also has a far-reaching system for research and development of strategic technology. The recently concluded Modi-Biden talks as well as the Quad summit emphasised technological cooperation. The U.S. undoubtedly remains China’s lone rival in the high tech space, and the extent of this partnership will be important for India. U.S. interests will more likely be inclined towards the possibilities of market entry and penetration of its firms. India should strive to move beyond this to complementary collaborations. Open to partnerships India should also remain open to partnerships with friendly nations, keeping the enhancement of its internal capacity as the objective. An example would be the ongoing talks with Taiwan to bring in a semiconductor chip manufacturing plant to India. If successful, this could drive next-generation industries, including 5G devices and electric vehicles. The strides India has made in sectors including biotech and space tech have shown that with the right political will and private participation, India could be self-sufficient and also reach global competitiveness. Similar concerted efforts to develop indigenous manufacturing and hard technology are vital if India is to retain its strategic autonomy and securely reach its stated goal of being among the largest three economies by the later stages of this decade. Anil K. Antony is a tech entrepreneur, public policy commentator and works on Congress’s digital initiatives. He tweets @anilkanton||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/crackdown-there-hope-here/article36850262.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||With a bang||The southwest monsoon has officially ended in India with 87.4 cm of rainfall between June and September, or just 0.7% short of the historical average of 88 cm. In many ways this was an exceptional year. By August end, India was staring at an all India monsoon rainfall deficit of nearly 9%. This was primarily due to monsoon rain in August, usually the second rainiest month, being short by 24%. Early in the monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast “normal” rains with “a tendency towards the positive side” and the August failure had it backtrack a little. It forecast — correctly in hindsight — strong rains in September but maintained that the overall monsoon rainfall while still “normal” would be towards the lower end. However, September rainfall — 35% more than the monthly normal — was so munificent that it completely closed the deficit and was well beyond the IMD’s expectations. Normally, India gets about 17 cm of rain in September, but at 22.9 cm this year, it was more than the 19 cm in August. Monsoon 2021 capped a rare three years of healthy rain. In 2020, India received 109% of the long period average (LPA) and in 2019, 110% of the LPA and not since 1996, 1997 and 1998 has India got three consecutive years of normal or above normal rain. Much of the rain was focused on southern India, with large parts of northeast and eastern India receiving below normal rainfall, but this is not concerning for two reasons: the base level of monsoon rains is higher in the northeastern regions than the rest of India and the region also gets the retreating monsoon which normally commences by October end. Three years of good rains have boosted storage in India’s key reservoirs. The monsoon, however, proved erratic for agriculture. The two key months for kharif crop sowing, July and August, were the ones when the monsoon failed and the excess September rains meant there are real fears of crop damage due to excessive moisture. The Government is expecting record crop output with kharif crops expected to yield 150.5 million tonnes until June 2022, which is slightly higher than the 149.56 million tonnes harvested last year. There are record surpluses expected for rice, pulses and oilseeds. While this could advantage exports it might also mean demands by farmers for more remunerative prices. These excess rains may be a rare event but the Government should capitalise on it and ensure adequate stocks for next year. The IMD should not be content that it got its overall prediction right but must analyse how its models could be improved to forecast shortfall as well as excess rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/with-a-bang/article36850254.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Detail in relief||The most welcome feature of the Supreme Court of India’s order detailing the modalities for payment of ex gratia financial assistance to the families of those who died of COVID-19 is the stern caveat that no State shall deny the benefit solely on the ground that a person’s death certificate did not specify the cause of death as due to the novel coronavirus disease. Thanks to the Court’s assertiveness, the Union government shed its initial wariness about incurring the financial burden of compensating the next of kin of the over 4.49 lakh people officially recorded as having died due to the virus infection. The National Disaster Management Authority issued guidelines last month, specifying that Rs. 50,000 be paid for each death. While the primary requirement to avail of this assistance is that the death should be certified as having been caused by COVID-19, the Court has rightly ruled that the cause mentioned in the death certificate would not be conclusive by itself, and that if other documents are provided, the family shall be entitled to the ex gratia payment. Experience over the last year-and-a-half has shown that hospitals tend to attribute some deaths to co-morbidities rather than the infection; and many died after testing negative during a spell of hospitalisation or after discharge. It has now been made clear that deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined a COVID-19 case shall be treated as eligible for the aid, “even if the death takes place outside the hospital/in-patient facility”. Given the fact that independent data analysis has revealed a possibly huge undercount in the official COVID-19 toll maintained by the State governments and the Centre, the view that only a certified COVID-19 death should be eligible for compensation has been rightly discarded. Of course, some documentary evidence will still be required to establish the cause, but once it is submitted, the payment should be disbursed within 30 days. It is a matter of consolation to those likely to have their claims rejected or disputed that the Court has created an appeal mechanism in the form of Grievance Redressal Committees at the district level. These panels can issue amended official documents to certify COVID-19 deaths, as well as the power to call for records or information from the hospitals where the deceased were admitted. To buttress the need for a humane approach, the Court has included those who took their own lives under the shadow of the pandemic in the ambit of the scheme. It has also advised the authorities to avoid technicalities in processing claims. The assistance will be welcomed by those affected, not because it will be enough to address the adverse impact that numberless families have suffered due to the pandemic, but as a sign that there is some recognition of their plight and immediate succour available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/detail-in-relief/article36850253.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Baboon used to save patient’s life||Chicago, Oct. 5: Three doctors today explained how they used a baboon in a 5½ hour emergency operation which may have helped to save the life of a 49-year-old alcoholic suffering from hepatitis. The patient came out of a three-day coma after his blood was circulated through the baboon’s liver, the doctors reported in the journal of the American Medical Association. Drs. Daniel Hollander, Gerald Klebanoff and Robert Osteen said the patient, who had been a heavy drinker for 15 years, was admitted to Wilford Hall Medical Centre at Lackland Air Force Base, Sap Antonio, Texas in July, 1970. The baboon was placed beside the patient’s bed and an artery and veins were linked to those of the baboon. Ten hours after the cross-circulation of blood, the patient showed dramatic improvement in his mental status, but then suffered a relapse. A total transfusion of human blood was then completed and a day later the patient began to recover, the researchers said. Thirty-six hours after the cross-circulation, the patient was able to follow simple command and answer simple questions, the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/baboon-used-to-save-patients-life/article36850261.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Services PMI flags first hiring since Nov.||The services sector last month recorded the second-fastest expansion since February 2020, accompanied by the first hiring in 10 months, IHS Markit’s survey-based Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) showed. The India Services Business Activity Index, which had hit an 18-month high of 56.7 in August, eased to 55.2 in September but was well above its long-run average. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in activity. While the loosening of COVID-19 curbs amid a receding second wave saw stronger demand including increased footfalls at services businesses, business confidence weakened in September on concerns about inflationary pressures. Higher fuel, material, retail and transportation prices pushed up the average cost burdens faced by Indian service providers further last month. Forecasts of better demand in the year ahead supported business confidence regarding output, but growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations, said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. “We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor,” she noted. ‘Travel curbs hurt’ Travel restrictions continued to weigh on international demand for Indian services as new export business contracted for the nineteenth month in a row, and at the quickest rate since May, IHS Markit said. September’s composite PMI, which includes both manufacturing and services, was little changed at 55.3. Employment at the composite level stabilised after contracting in each of the prior 18 months as a marginal reduction in jobs at goods producers broadly offset the growth at service providers. The signs from forward-looking indicators were, however, mixed and there was no guarantee that the recovery in hiring would sustain, Ms. De Lima cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/services-pmi-flags-first-hiring-since-nov/article36850115.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||MFIs seek additional Rs. 7,500 cr. under credit guarantee scheme||Micro-finance institutions (MFIs) have urged Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to allocate another Rs. 7,500 crore under the credit guarantee scheme announced for them in June as banks had exhausted the initial for the same amount. In a letter to the Minister, Sa-Dhan, the self-regulatory body for MFIs, cited data aggregated from its members to flag that they had applied for Rs. 18,500 crore from 44 banks under the credit guarantee scheme. “The additional amount will support the funds flow for MFIs with lower grading, which are smaller and cater to poorer sections and remoter areas,” the regulatory body said. MFIs also sought a tweak in the scheme’s norms to make a distinction between banks’ exposure to them and other non-banking finance companies (NBFCs). “As the banks are accounting for this portfolio under NBFC category, once they reach the exposure limits under NBFCs, they are unable to approve more funding for MFIs,” Sa-Dhan said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfis-seek-additional-rs-7500-cr-under-credit-guarantee-scheme/article36850107.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s online video consumption ‘explodes’ aided by pandemic: Bain||Bolstered by prolonged stay-at-home periods, especially during the pandemic, the consumption of videos online has ‘exploded’ in India, according to a new study by Bain and Company. As per the report titled ‘India Online Videos – The Long and Short of It’, the online video user base in the country had surged to more than 350 million people — a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 24% between 2018 and 2020, or about twice as fast as markets such as China and Indonesia. However, despite this growth, there exists massive headroom in penetration and usage. About 59% of India’s Internet users consume videos online, as against 67% in Japan, 69% in Indonesia, 74% in Brazil, 76% in Mexico, 78% in S. Korea, 79% in the U.K., 83% in the U.S. and 92% in China. Bain forecasts that by 2025, three in four Internet users, or 600-650 million Indians, would consume short-form videos (SFVs), with active users spending up to 55-60 minutes a day. Meanwhile, long-form videos (LFVs), consumption of which is already almost double of SFVs with about 350-400 million watching them, are estimated to see a similar number of viewers by 2025. ‘SFV market zooms’ Videos of between 15 seconds and 2 minutes length are considered SFVs, while those longer than 2 minutes are categorised as LFVs. “In India, the SFV market has taken off over the past two years, growing 3.5 times in user base and 12 times in total time spent by all users on SFV platforms,” Bain said, adding that more than 200 million Indians watched SFVs at least once in 2020, with daily active users spending up to 45 minutes a day on these platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-online-video-consumption-explodes-aided-by-pandemic-bain/article36850109.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Coal to last less than four days at 64 power plants’||Ahead of the festival season, the coal supply crisis seems to be deepening with 64 non-pithead power plants left with less than four days of the dry fuel stocks. The latest report on coal stocks for power plants from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) also showed that 25 such power plants had coal stocks for less than seven days as on October 3. The CEA monitors coal stocks at 135 power plants that have a cumulative generation capacity of 165 GW on a daily basis. Overall, total coal stocks of 78,09,200 tonnes were available at the 135 plants as on October 3 and that was sufficient for four days. The daily coal requirement of these plants is 18,24,100 tonnes. Among the 135 plants, not even one had 8 or more days of coal stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-to-last-less-than-four-days-at-64-power-plants/article36850111.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. ‘reviewing’ plea on one-time spectrum levy||The Union Government informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that it was ‘reviewing’ whether or not to continue with its appeal regarding the levy of one-time spectrum charges (OTSC) worth approximately Rs. 40,000 crore on the telcos. Telecom companies have to pay one-time charges for the spectrum held beyond 4.4 Mhz. In 2019, the Telecom Disputes Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) ruled that the charges could be imposed only prospectively. The Department of Telecom (DoT) had appealed in the SC against the decision. “We are in the process of considering or reviewing the decision to proceed with the present proceedings of appeal. Give us three weeks’ time,” Mr. Mehta requested a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-reviewing-plea-on-one-time-spectrum-levy/article36850250.ece
06 October 2021||MUMBAI,||‘BMW India confident of meeting 2021 sales target’||BMW Group India has said it will outperform the luxury car segment in India this year and close the calendar year with a ‘strong’ double-digit growth despite two months of shutdown during the peak of the COVID-19 second wave. Strong recovery The company would meet this year’s sales target as the demand recovery has been very strong,” said Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India. Mr. Pawah said in the past nine months, BMW had reported a 44% growth than the same period last year, while Mini had grown 65.5% and BMW Motorrad, the motorcycle brand, had grown manifold. Despite the COVID-19 outbreak, he said the company had surpassed the sales number of 2019. In 2019, BMW had sold 8,500 units of all models, while this year it had sold more than 9,500 units so far, he said, indicating the demand recovery. “This time the bounce back is much stronger. And this gives us confidence that we will deliver on our plan for this year and next year as well,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bmw-india-confident-of-meeting-2021-sales-target/article36850106.ece
06 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Cost of State debt jumps to 2-month high||Ahead of the monetary policy review on Friday when the market fears RBI may begin to normalise the easy money policy by sucking out liquidity from the system, the cost of borrowing for States jumped 6 basis points (bps) to a two-month high of 6.91%. As many as 17 States raised Rs. 22,809 crore at the weekly auctions on Tuesday. This was Rs. 55 crore over the notified amount as Gujarat accepted an additional Rs. 500 crore, while Punjab accepted only Rs. 55 crore of the notified Rs 500 crore. The spread between the 10-year State bonds auctioned today and the yield of the 10-year G-Secs widened to 68 bps from 65 bps a week ago, according to Care Ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cost-of-state-debt-jumps-to-2-month-high/article36850112.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTO raises 2021 goods trade outlook||The World Trade Organization (WTO) has said global merchandise trade volume will grow 10.8% this year, higher than 8% estimated in March. Growth should moderate as merchandise trade approaches its pre-pandemic long-run trend and issues such as chip scarcity and port backlogs may strain supply chains, the WTO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wto-raises-2021-goods-trade-outlook/article36850113.ece
06 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC reduces iron ore prices||Iron ore producer NMDC has reduced the prices by Rs. 200 for a tonne of Lump and by Rs. 400 for the same quantity of Fines. This is the fourth reduction NMDC has effected in the prices in as many months. Effective October 5, the new prices are Rs. 5,950 per tonne of Lump Ore and Rs. 4,760 per tonne of Fines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-reduces-iron-ore-prices/article36850101.ece
06 October 2021||COIMBATORE,||Ekki Pumps invests in agri start-up||Ekki Pumps of Coimbatore has invested an undisclosed amount in Kissan Pro, a Bengaluru-based agri tech start-up. UAE-based Manu Midha of Innovacer, White Hill Ventures, and Amit Tripathy of OYO, are some of the other investors, Kissan Pro said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ekki-pumps-invests-in-agri-start-up/article36850102.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,||India’s AI market to reach $7.8 billion by 2025: IDC||India’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) market may reach $7.8 billion by 2025, growing at 20.2% CAGR, as per an International Data Corporation (IDC) report. The AI software segment would dominate the market, rising from $2.8 billion in 2020 at 18.1% CAGR by end 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-ai-market-to-reach-78-billion-by-2025-idc/article36850103.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Tekion raises $250 mn from a pack of investors||Bengaluru-based Tekion, developer of cloud-native automotive SaaS platform Automotive Retail Cloud, on Tuesday, announced a Series D financing round of $250 million, which pushed the firm’s valuation to more than $3.5 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tekion-raises-250-mn-from-a-pack-of-investors/article36850104.ece
06 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala under-19 team scripts history||The Kerala under-19 boys team made history in Hyderabad by qualifying for the knock-out round of the Vinoo Mankad Trophy for the first time. Kerala finished second behind Haryana with 10 points in Elite Group D to make it to the pre-quarterfinals. The team scored victories over Bengal and Uttarakhand and got two points from the abandoned match against Baroda, which ensured its qualification. It was a memorable week for most of the boys who were playing competitive cricket after nearly two years. The wickets, weather and the tight schedule were unforgiving but the players showed resilience and temperament. ‘Good performance’ “Overall it was a good performance, but I feel we could have done better. We beat Bengal for the first time and should have won against Haryana. The team was improving after every match. We still have some grey areas which we need to sort out,” former Kerala captain Sunil Oasis, who is the head coach of the team, said. “The wickets, weather, schedule and opponents were all tough but the boys showed fighting spirit. The way we bounced back in the last game against Baroda should give us a lot of confidence. We were down by three wickets at the end of the first over. But Shaun Roger and Rohan Nair scored centuries, which were easily the best knocks of the tournament. We put up a good total before rain robbed us of a certain victory,” Oasis added. Kerala meets Rajasthan in the pre-quarterfinal in Ahmedabad on October 11. Oasis feels the team has the ability to beat Rajasthan. “We will have to be at the top of our game against Rajasthan. It will be a pressure match as we can expect our rivals to have a settled team. The wicket will be a totally different one. We will be spending the next four days in quarantine and will probably get one practice session before the match. So the boys need to maintain their focus.”  The way we bounced back in the last game against Baroda should give us a lot of confidence— Sunil Oasis,head coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-under-19-team-scripts-history/article36850537.ece
06 October 2021||Lima,||Naamya shoots sports pistol gold||Fourteen-year-old Naamya Kapoor, competing internationally for the first time, won the women’s sports pistol gold ahead of qualification topper Manu Bhaker in the Junior World Championship shooting here. Naamya shot 36 in the final to beat Camille Jedrzejewski of France and Manu. The French girl had progressed for the fight for gold after winning the shoot-off against Manu, who had topped qualification with 587, one point ahead of Rhythm Sangwan. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar, meanwhile, shattered the world record in the final and national record in qualification of the 50m rifle 3-position event. Olympian Aishwary shot 463.4 in the final as he outclassed Lucas Bernard Denis Kryzs of France by 6.9 points for the gold. Aishwary had shot 1185 in qualification (397 kneeling, 398 prone and 390 standing) to equal the junior world record and beat Sanjeev Rajput’s national men’s record of 1181 set in the 2019 Rio de Janeiro World Cup. India is on top of the medals table with eight gold, six silver and three bronze medals. US is in second with four gold, five silver and three bronze. Italy and Hungary follow with two gold each, while France, Belarus and Germany have won at least one gold medal each.  The results:   Men: 50m rifle 3-position: 1. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar 463.4 (WRJ) 1185 (NR); 2. Lucas Bernard Denis Kryzs (Fra) 456.5 (1176); 3. Gavin Raymond Leigh Barnick (US) 446.6 (1168); 11. Sanskar Havelia 1160; 16. Sartaj Singh Tiwana 1157; 22. Gurman Singh 1153.   Women: 25m sports pistol: 1. Naamya Kapoor 36 (580); 2. Camille Jedrzejewski (Fra) 33 (584); 3. Manu Bhaker 31 (587); 4. Rhythm Sangwan 27 (586) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naamya-wins-sports-pistol-gold/article36850418.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai Indians crushes Rajasthan Royals to stay alive||Mumbai Indians came up with a performance as clinical as it could get and must be hoping it didn’t come just a little too late in the day. In a must-win game, MI crushed Rajasthan Royals by eight wickets, with 11.4 overs to spare, at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Tuesday. With the win, fashioned by their seamers who reduced RR to 90 for nine, Rohit Sharma’s men have maintained their right to dream of a place in the playoffs, and by extension, a hat-trick of IPL titles; their fate might still not be in their own hands, however. For now, though, they can reflect on one of their best nights this season. They won the toss and chose to bowl, and brought into the squad Ishan Kishan and James Neesham. The Kiwi seamer took three for 14, including the prize wicket of RR skipper Sanju Samson. But it was his trans-Tasman neighbour Nathan Coulter-Nile who turned out to be the destroyer-in-chief. The Australian pacer took four for 14, his best IPL figures. There were two wickets for Jasprit Bumrah too. On a slow, low wicket, MI’s steady attack gave little away. The RR batters made things easier for the MI bowlers, too. At 26 for no loss after three overs, with openers Evin Lewis and Yashasvi Jaiswal looking in good touch, RR seemed on its way to a good total. It was to the dugout, though, that the RR batters seemed in a hurry to make their way back to. Jaiswal was the first to go, as he tried to cut Coulter-Nile and edged behind the stumps to Ishan. Lewis, the top-scorer with 24, fell lbw to a ball from Bumrah that didn’t bounce as high as he wanted it to. It was only the beginning of RR’s horror story. Later, Ishan led MI’s comfortable chase with an unbeaten 50 (25b, 5x4, 3x6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-indians-crushes-rajasthan-royals-to-stay-alive/article36850363.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Kohli & Co. will be keen on a top-two finish||Royal Challengers Bangalore will have an eye on a top-two finish when it takes on Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. Wins in the remaining two games — the second against table-topper Delhi Capitals — will take the Virat Kohli-led side to 20 points, and if Chennai Super Kings loses to Punjab Kings in its last game, second place, and with that two chances to qualify for the final, can be RCB’s. Fancying its chances On current form, RCB can fancy its chances. It has won three matches on the bounce with contributions from nearly every member of the playing XI. Of these, Glenn Maxwell with three consecutive half-centuries, Harshal Patel with 26 wickets and Yuzvendra Chahal with 14 wickets have shone the brightest. However, one facet RCB can look to improve is the scoring rate immediately after PowerPlay. Kohli and Devdutt Padikkal, excellent otherwise, have tended to slow down in the middle overs. Runs at a brisk pace can bring greater rewards. Siraj’s form Mohammed Siraj has claimed just one wicket from five matches in the UAE leg, but the bowling unit as a whole has held strong. For SRH, already out of the tournament, there is little to play for. Green shoots ahead of the next season is all that Kane Williamson will be looking for. There is hope in Umran Malik, who was brought in as a short-term replacement for T. Natarajan. The 21-year-old Jammu & Kashmir cricketer’s searing pace against Kolkata Knight Riders forced everyone to sit up and take notice. The next few matches will be revealing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-co-will-be-keen-on-a-top-two-finish/article36850359.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,||Ruturaj — a special player||He steps out of the crease as soon as the ball is released. And then times the ball to the far corners. Watching the charge-down-the-wicket act, the bowler shortens his length. But then, the batsman goes deep into his crease and puts away the ball ruthlessly. This in a nutshell is Ruturaj Gaikwad. He puts his dancing shoes on every time he enters the crease, dismantling the length of a bowler. And he is cat-like in his footwork, so light, so ethereal. The 24-year-old Chennai Super Kings batsman has been making waves this season not just for runs at the top of the order but the quality of his stroke-play. When someone who has seen as much cricket as Virender Sehwag tweets, “Remember the name. Special player, made for greater things. Matter of time before he dominates World Cricket,” you’ve got to take the man seriously. In this IPL season, Ruturaj so far has 521 runs in 13 games at 47.36 (strike rate 138.93). Runs where he stamped his authority. Much to admire There is so much to admire in Ruturaj. His relaxed stance, the smooth bat swing, the ability to pick length quickly, balance where the head stays still, secure defence, delightful footwork and the ability to find gaps. Here is a batsman with grace and flow, and the ability to slice open an attack craftily rather than bulldoze through it. It is difficult to set a field for him because of his strength off either foot, and his strokes, with a vertical or a horizontal blade, on both sides of the pitch. Ruturaj is wristy too, can manoeuvre the ball through the open spaces. His opening partnerships with Faf du Plessis have been rousing, the chemistry between the two symbiotic. The Maharashtra batsman’s unbeaten 101 against Rajasthan Royals where he swung the last delivery of the innings, from Mustafizur Rahman, for a six revealed his ice-cool nerves. Ruturaj’s Twenty20 debut for India in Sri Lanka this year marked the beginning. This cat should waltz on the international stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruturaj-a-special-player/article36850383.ece
06 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Enjoy my current role in RCB’||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) took a gamble on Glenn Maxwell at the 2021 IPL auctions. RCB signed Maxwell for Rs. 14.25 crore despite the Australian’s poor performances in the previous two seasons. With three match-winning fifties in the last three league outings, Maxwell has certainly silenced the doubters. Maxwell, the key to RCB’s progress to the playoffs, remains a valuable IPL asset. There are a few factors that have helped Maxwell find success at RCB. The 32-year-old has been slotted at his preferred two-drop spot, which gives him ample time to build an innings. This luxury was not afforded to Maxwell last year at Kings XI Punjab, where he struggled to settle in at three-drop. Top-order firing The RCB top-order, consisting of Virat Kohli, Devdutt Padikkal and K.S. Bharat, has made consistent contributions, easing the pressure on Maxwell. Maxwell himself has taken a more sensible approach to his batting. RCB will be pleased that silly shot selection, which has plagued his game, is now a thing of the past. “Two-drop is where I like to bat. I’ve done it for Melbourne Stars, Australia, and Lancashire. The way our openers have set it up has also helped me play my natural game. “I’m looking to go out to bat with a little more than 10 overs left in the innings. That way I can take a couple of overs to settle in, and give myself the platform to attack. AB (de Villiers) has the ability to hit boundaries early in his innings, so he is more suited for the death overs,” Maxwell told select media on Tuesday. Maxwell added that he allows himself some time to get his eye in. “At the start of my knock, I try to keep a solid technique. “With this RCB line-up, I can afford to spend time in the middle. When I decide to take risks with the big hits, it’s a well informed decision,” Maxwell, RCB's leading run-scorer this season, said. With Virat Kohli due to step down as RCB captain at the end of the season, the search is on for a new leader. Asked if captaincy interests him, Maxwell replied, “I have to get retained by RCB first (laughs). It (captaincy) will be nice, but it’s not something I have thought about. “I enjoy my current role in RCB. I do some heavy lifting when it comes to making field changes. “This takes some load off Virat. As for picking the next captain, that is something that the team management will decide,” Maxwell said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/enjoy-my-current-role-in-rcb/article36850365.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Teja Ahuja knocks out Arunava Majumder||Tejas Ahuja played close to his best in beating the fourth seed Arunava Majumder 7-6(6), 6-3 in the under-16 boys first round of the National sub-junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Tuesday. Tejas, who trains with coach Vishaal Uppal, sustained a high quality game to overcome the nice game of Arunava. “He played solid on every point”, praised the former champion Saurav Panja, who trains Arunava in Kolkata. In the girls under-14 section, Prisha Shinde overcame a hard start to beat ninth seed Divya Ungrish 2-6, 7-5, 6-1 in the second round. Rain curtailed the day’s schedule in the evening.  The results: Boys, u-16 (first round): Daksh Prasad bt Bhicky Sagolshem 6-4, 6-2; Satav Vikram bt Sachin Malha 6-0, 6-1; Anoop Keshavamurthy bt Aditya Talwar 6-1, 6-3; Mayank Sharma bt Keshav Goel 6-7(9), 6-1, 6-1; Jaishnav Shinde bt Jason David 6-2, 6-1; Aryan Sutar bt Arnav Yadav 6-7(8), 6-3, 7-5; Smit Patel bt Yagna Patel 7-5, 7-5; Manish Yadav bt Antariksh Tamuly 7-5, 6-4; Tejas Ahuja bt Arunava Majumder 7-6(6), 6-3; Omaansh Choudhary bt Bharat Jaiswal 6-2, 7-5; Bharat Phulwaria bt Pranav Mishra 6-2, 6-2; Arya Bhattacharya bt Sagar Kumar 6-1, 7-5;Navya Verma bt Dhruv Kumar 6-2, 5-7, 3-2 (retired).   Venkat Batlanki bt Satvik Murali 6-3, 7-6(5); Debasis Sahoo bt Ayushmaan Arjeria 7-6(3), 6-4; Suresh Keerthivassan bt Vitin Rathee 6-1, 6-3; Arjun Rathi bt Wyatt O’Brien 4-6, 7-5, 6-1; Manan Kumar bt Naishik Reddy 7-6(2), 6-4; Shanker Heisnam bt Jasmeet Duhan 7-5, 6-4.   Kriish Tyagi bt Manan Nath 6-4, 6-2; Shafaat Ali Asghar bt Mandeep Reddy 3-6, 6-4, 6-2; Rethin Pranav bt Chahatpreet Singh 6-3, 6-1; Vansh Nandal bt Deepam Malik 6-2, 6-3; Aditya Rathi bt Harsh Fogaat 3-6, 6-1, 6-4; Tarun Korwar bt Chandan Shivaraj 6-3, 6-4; Vaheen Patel bt Namish Sharma 6-3, 6-4; Omar Rehan Sumar bt Tanishq Jadhav 6-4, 6-3; Hitesh Chauhan bt Paran Jain 6-2, 6-2; Prajwal Tewari bt Rishi Sadeeshkumar 6-0, 6-4; Vatsal Manikantan bt Kanav Dawer 6-1, 6-2; Rushil Khosla bt Swastik Sharma 6-0, 6-2.   U-14 boys (second round): Arnav Paparkar bt Aradhya Kshitij 6-2, 6-3; Sehaj Pawar bt Advik Natekar 6-0, 6-2; Ashwajit Senjam bt Pratyushraj Goel 6-3, 6-1 .   Girls, u-14 (second round): Riya Sachdeva bt Devanshee Prabhudesai 6-1, 6-2; Rishtha Basireddy bt Rithika Sri Prassanna 6-3, 7-6(3); Prisha Shinde bt Divya Ungrish 2-6, 7-5, 6-1; Ikaraju Kanumuri bt Harshini N 6-2, 6-2; Maaya Revathi bt Vamika Sharma 6-1, 6-2; Anushka Bhola bt Sree Lekha Chiruvolu 6-2, 6-4; Aditi Rawat bt Aishwarya Jadhav 6-4, 6-2; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Nainika Reddy 6-0, 4-6, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teja-ahuja-knocks-out-arunava-majumder/article36850644.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The double delight of the well-hit six — all this and distance too||In the first 50 matches of the IPL so far, 583 sixes have been hit. That’s over 11 sixes per match. You can either rejoice in this, or speak dourly about the quality of bats, the smallness of boundaries, the technique of batsmen or the pressure on bowlers. John Arlott called the six “the most companionable of shots,” cutting the distance between player and spectator both literally and figuratively. Now with the added pleasure of knowing exactly how far the ball travelled, distance, something incidental, shares the stage with the other aspects of the shot. Great sight The well-hit six can be an aural and visual treat at once. The deep and almost polite sound of the bat making contact and the sight of the ball against the blue sky curving its way to its urgent appointment beyond the ropes is surely one of the pleasures of the game. The first six I can remember was hit at our school grounds by a school hero named Gowrishanker, who had been picked for the Indian Schoolboys tour of Australia. I must have been seven or eight; the ball hit the tiled roof of the pavilion and rolled down gently. It was magical. When you see some of the bats cricketers in the early part of the last century used, it is a wonder they cleared the boundary. Till 1910 in England, for a hit to be declared a six it had to clear the ground. Thus Albert Trott’s famous shot which bounced off the roof of the Lord’s pavilion fetched only a four. Many boundaries hit by him and others like Gilbert Jessop would count as six today. Nayudu’s hitting Do modern batsmen hit higher and farther than their predecessors? C.K. Nayudu once hit a six at Chepauk, the ball landing near a coconut tree fifty yards from the ground. I saw Chris Gayle strike five sixes in an IPL over, but none looked to be travelling the same distance. Nayudu’s six-hitting — he hit 11 of them while making 153 against the MCC in 1926 — hastened the acceptance of India into Test cricket, so the six has played an important role in India’s history. The most famous sustained hitting in first class cricket was recorded in 1911 by E.B. Alletson, who, batting for Notts against Sussex, scored 189 in 90 minutes, the last 142 of those in 40 minutes. One of his eight sixes carried 146 metres which should put into perspective some of the big hits in the IPL. Arlott, who has written a book about that one innings, says at one point, “Alletson, after lunch, went out to bat at 2.15… (he ) was out at 2.55 — which was probably the next time anyone at the ground looked at the clock.” In another place he quotes the cricketer C.P. Foley who watched the match thus: “Time was wasted in trying to prise one ball out of the new stand into whose soft wood Alletson had driven it, no chisel being available…” I wonder what today’s commentators would have made of such hitting. The IPL is not about hitting sixes, or at least not only about hitting sixes. The fear that what is too common and too easily done might somehow reduce the pleasure the shot brings, both to the player and the spectator, has proved to be largely unfounded. When Brendon McCullum hit 13 sixes in the course of his 158 off 73 balls in the first-ever IPL match, he made a promise on behalf of the format itself: Sixes are sexy, and here’s where you get them. It was the second time the six was playing a significant role in Indian cricket.  No other act in cricket — bowled or run out or caught — has its own sponsor. But the IPL six stands on its own, affectionately (but wrongly) called a ‘maximum’ preceded by the name of the sponsor. A batsman can run three off a stroke and then find an overthrow fetching him another four runs, so that’s seven runs already. But ‘maximum’ has remained, helped along by the boundary being brought in. Interestingly, both Jessop (who scored his runs at the rate of 80 an hour — this was before runs-per-ball were recorded) and W.G. Grace advocated that the boundary be brought in for first class games at the turn of the last century. We each have our preferences, but the most pleasing six is the well-driven one, particularly if it flies straight and true. Off-side sixes — in the manner of K.L. Rahul — were the speciality of Walter Hammond. But rather like the results of the matches themselves, the sixes in white ball cricket tend to drop out of the memory rather quickly. Most fans, I gather, would rather have a surfeit of them than a dearth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-double-delight-of-the-well-hit-six-all-this-and-distance-too/article36850281.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu announces squad for Mushtaq Ali||The selection of B. Sai Sudharsan in the Dinesh Karthik-led Tamil Nadu team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 tournament is welcome news given his talent. The chairman of the State selection panel S. Vasudevan told The Hindu on Tuesday, “He is such an exciting batting prospect, and made runs at every opportunity.” Vasudevan added, “Sai is a good leg-spinner too with a deceptive googly. In fact, I want to speak to him about pursuing his bowling more seriously.” The former Tamil Nadu captain revealed Washington Sundar has been picked purely as a batter. “As a batter alone, he adds great value to the side. About him bowling [Washington is recovering from a finger injury] we will be in touch with NCA. It has to give the go-ahead.”  On the selection of paceman P. Saravana Kumar, Vasudevan said, “He has a good outswinger. And he is a useful bat too.” It is a strong squad with several internationals — Karthik, Vijay Shakar, Washington, T. Natarajan — several players with IPL experience and many multi-dimensional cricketers. Stronger side “This is a stronger side than what we had when we won the championship last season. We should be able to retain the title,” said a confident Vasudevan. The side has players with an X-factor about them. R. Vivek Raj is a big-hitter who can alter scripts and V. Ganga Sridhar Raju, a pocket powerhouse at the top of the order. R. Silambarasan is a slinger with pace and a slippery yorker. And M. Siddharth is a beguiling left-arm spinner with a variety of deliveries. Sanjay back in the fold There is also a place for left-arm-spinning all-rounder R. Sanjay Yadav, who is back in the Tamil Nadu fold. Natarajan and Sandeep Warrier will spearhead the pace attack while left-armers B. Sai Kishore, Siddharth and leggie M. Ashwin will be the mainstays in spin bowling. This said, batting is the side’s strength. In Karthik, Washington and Shahrukh Khan, the team has game-changers.  The squad:   Dinesh Karthik (capt.), Vijay Shankar (vice-capt.), M.S. Washington Sundar, T. Natarajan, Sandeep Warrier, R. Sai Kishore, B. Aparajith, N. Jagadeesan, M. Ashwin, M. Shahrukh Khan, C. Hari Nishaanth, B. Sai Sudharsan, M. Siddharth, V. Ganga Sridhar Raju, M. Mohammed, J. Kousik, R. Sanjay Yadav, R. Silambarasan, R. Vivek Raj and P. Saravana Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadu-announces-squad-for-mushtaq-ali/article36850488.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||If anybody can beat this Aussie women’s team, it’s India: Raman||The women in blue adapt to different formats well. Even when they get to wear whites, once in a blue moon. This quality of theirs has pleased former coach W.V. Raman the most. Adapting to formats “They adapt to different formats within such a short span of time and we shouldn’t forget that they are not playing as regularly they used to before the pandemic,” he told The Hindu during an online interview on Tuesday. “Besides, they are also living in a bubble. It is not easy.” Raman, who was in charge of the team until early this year, believes India could do well in the T20I series, which starts at Carrara on Thursday. It was, in fact, India that stopped Australia’s three-year streak of 26 ODI wins, shortly before the Day-Night Test. “If anybody could beat this Australian women’s team, it is India,” he said. “Australia is formidable in the shorter formats because they have a plethora of multidimensional cricketers.” He pointed out that India could rattle the Aussies. “The Indians have done that, beginning with that onslaught from Harmanpreet Kaur in the 2017 World Cup (semifinal),” said the former Test opener. “The respect Australian cricket has for India is reflected by the large number of our girls playing in the Women’s Big Bash League.” Six of them have been signed up this season. “We could even see that number going to double figures in a year or two,” Raman said. Remarkable progress He thinks the way India has progressed as a T20 team is remarkable. “Where they are today, from a side which didn’t know how to play the T20 format (two or three years ago), is incredible,” he said. “Imagine chasing down a target of (close to) 180 (against Australia) in the Tri-series before the T20 World Cup last year. “Not many would have thought India would do that, but they did.” He feels Jemimah Rodrigues’ fabulous run in The Hundred in England augurs well for the team. “She brings in that pocket dynamo quality of hers,” he said. “She is busy as a batter, gives a lot of encouragement to the bowlers and is a terrific fielder.” Looking back at the Test, he believes it was a winning draw for India, if ever there was one. “If at all anything could be said (critically), they could have tried to get some quick runs on day three and put pressure on Australia.”  (The first India-Australia T20I will be aired on Sony Ten 3 & Sony Six from 2 p.m. on October 7)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/if-anybody-could-beat-lanning-co-its-india-says-raman/article36850369.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Need to just maintain our intensity: Fleming||After sealing a playoff berth, Chennai Super Kings has suffered two consecutive defeats. Coach Stephen Fleming said the team needs to quickly regroup and get the intensity back. “Sometimes, when you have qualified, things do change a little bit. “We try to work very hard on keeping the intensity. We are on the back of three games in five days with a bit of travel. There were probably clumsy mistakes from us, which was the most disappointing aspect, but in terms of the competition, one of the key things is rebounding,” said Fleming. “Second on the table, a chance to get to the top two is still a positive position, but we need to just maintain our intensity, get the flow and rhythm that we had before these two games,” added the former New Zealand skipper. Curran ruled out All-rounder Sam Curran has been ruled out of the ongoing IPL and the ICC T20 World Cup with a lower-back injury he sustained during the IPL, the ECB said on Tuesday. He will fly back to the UK in the next couple of days and will have further scans and a full review later this week by the ECB’s medical team. About Curran’s replacement, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan told The Hindu: “We will take a call on Wednesday. We will choose the replacement from the net bowlers who are in the bubble already.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-just-maintain-our-intensity-fleming/article36850372.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lovlina gets direct entry for Worlds||Tokyo Olympics bronze-medallist Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) has been handed a direct qualification for the upcoming women’s World boxing championships by the Boxing Federation of India, which has decided that the remaining squad will be made up of the gold medals winners from the Nationals to be held in Hisar from October 21. Apart from this, the gold and silver-winners from the Nationals will also secure their place in the national camp. The bronze-winners will fight it out in trials featuring medallists from the previous three editions of the tournament for a place in the camp. The 24-year-old Lovlina is set to skip the Nationals after securing a direct entry to the squad. The World championship is to be held in December in Istanbul. The men’s camp for the Worlds, slated from October 24 in Belgrade, is yet to take off. A BFI source said that it could kick off in the next couple of days in Patiala. The BFI has made it clear that the coaching staff of both the men and women campers is set for a revamp in the next couple of months. The review is being done in the backdrop of the Tokyo Olympics performance in which none of the male boxers could make the medal rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lovlina-gets-direct-entry-for-worlds/article36850411.ece
06 October 2021||Dubai,||Indian women lose to Tunisia in friendly||The Indian women’s football team lost to lower-ranked Tunisia 1-0 in an international friendly match here on Monday. Heuij scored the all-important goal for Tunisia in the eighth minute from a free kick and the Indians could not find the target in reply despite making a lot of effort. Tunisia is ranked 77th in the FIFA chart as against India’s 57th. India had beaten UAE 4-1 on Saturday in the team’s first overseas friendly since Thomas Dennerby took charge. But the team produced a disappointing show against Tunisia. The friendly matches are part of preparations for the AFC Asian Cup, which will be hosted by India in January-February. The win against 100th ranked UAE on Saturday was India’s first of the year. The Blue Tigress have been winless in the five previous matches this year.  The result: Tunisia 1 (Heuij 8) bt India 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-loses-to-tunisia/article36850414.ece
06 October 2021||BENGALURU,||National camp for men resumes||The Indian men’s hockey team’s chief coach Graham Reid says the focus of the ongoing National camp will be on setting future priorities after the historic bronze medal-winning show at the Tokyo Olympics. “The boys are all excited to resume training and we are looking at our future engagements,” Reid said. After a well-deserved break following the Olympics success, the players resumed training here on Monday. According to a release issued by SAI, all COVID-related protocols are being followed in the camp. “They are undergoing outdoor training in a different slot and are not mixing with other campers at SAI Bangalore. The revised SOPs of the SAI allows for outdoor training.” Physical conditioning Assistant coach Piyush Dubey said the players are now re-focusing on the future engagements. “Our entire focus for the time being is on the Asian Champions Trophy to be held in Dhaka in December this year and this month-long camp shall mainly target on improving the physical conditioning of the players,” he said. Having decided to pull out of the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham next year, the team’s next big assignment is the Asian Games in China in September 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-camp-for-men-resumes/article36850438.ece
06 October 2021||Oslo,||Indian girls find the going tough||The young Indian wrestlers, including the talented Hanny Kumari, expectedly found the going tough at the World Championship, here on Tuesday. Competing in the 50kg category, Hanny showed some spark when she began with a 9-2 win over Korea’s Miran Cheon but her challenge in the quarterfinal against Russia’s Nadezhda Sokolova lasted just 35 seconds. Soklova took a commanding 6-0 lead in the first 15 seconds of the bout, severely denting the confidence of the Indian teenager and finished the bout in no time. In the 53kg, Pooja got a wrestling lesson from Japanese prodigy Akari Fujinami, who is yet to lose a bout in her career. Pooja lost her pre-quarterfinal by technical superiority. Bhateri failed to get a single point, let alone winning a round, as she lost 8-0 to Russia’s Dinara Kudaeva Salikhova. Kiran (76kg) was the only senior player on the mat for India in the morning session. She began with a 6-0 win against Korea’s Kim Cholee but lost her quarterfinal ‘by fall’ to America’s Adeline Maria Gray.  The results: 50kg: Quarterfinal: Nadezhda Sokolova (Rus) bt Hanny Kumari 10-0; First round: Kumari bt Miran Cheon (Kor) 9-2.   53kg: Pre-quarterfinal: Akari Fujinami (Jpn) bt Pooja by technical superiority.   65kg: Qualification round: Dinara Kudaeva Salikhova (Rus) bt Bhateri 8-0.   76kg: Quaterfinal: Adeline Maria Gray bt Kiran by fall; First round: Kiran bt Kim Cholee 6-0 .   Hanny Kumari lasts just 35 seconds in quarterfinal against Russia’s Nadezhda Sokolova||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-girls-find-the-going-tough/article36850415.ece
06 October 2021||Chennai,||Finch to open with Warner in the T20 World Cup||Australia’s white-ball captain Aaron Finch has indicated that he will open the batting with an off-colour David Warner at the T20 World Cup, which starts in UAE and Oman from October 17. Injuries and form have been a worry for Australia in the build-up to the World Cup. Warner has 195 runs at 24 and a strike rate of 108 this IPL season and was dropped by the struggling Sunrisers Hyderabad after a poor run in the UAE-leg of IPL. Meanwhile, Finch played with an injury in the West Indies and missed the entire Bangladesh series. The Victorian has since undergone knee surgery and is feeling “very good”. He is likely to stick to the left-right opening combination. “I think you would expect to see Davey [David Warner] and I open the batting in the World Cup. It is something that has worked for us for a long time now,” he told Sportstar . Faith in Smith  Among other Australians in the IPL, Glenn Maxwell has reeled off three half-centuries in a row for Royal Challengers Bangalore while Steve Smith has struggled for game time with Delhi Capitals. Smith’s record in T20Is is mixed — 794 runs in 45 matches at an average of 27.37 and a strike rate of 129.52. But Finch has reiterated his confidence in Smith while adding that there will probably be a few floaters in the batting order. “Smith is the best batsman in the world. I have no doubt he is the best possible option to fulfil the anchor role,” he said. “Guys like Stoinis and [Matthew] Wade are high-quality cricketers who can fill any role in the Australian order. All our players are adaptable enough to bat in the middle order, and I think you will see whoever is called upon in the World T20 will do a terrific job.” Bad run The Australian men’s side hasn’t made a T20 World Cup semifinal since 2012. It was No.1 in the ICC T20I rankings in May 2020 for the first time in history. Since then, it has lost five consecutive T20I series. Against Bangladesh in August this year, Australia’s batting hit rock bottom when it was bowled out for 62 in the fifth match, its lowest ever in the format. “I don’t think people should read too much into the playing against spin in West Indies and Bangladesh,” Finch said. “I think we have picked a team that can win the World Cup. We have the utmost faith in every single player picked. No doubt, they will be able to help us win.” About the side’s bowling composition, Finch said: “The bowlers we have picked are world-class, so I am looking forward to seeing what they do on the big stage.” The players departing for the World Cup from Australia will leave for the UAE later this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finch-to-open-with-warner-in-the-t20-world-cup/article36850445.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stars struggle as four share lead at 67||S. Chikkarangappa, Manu Gandas, Rashid Khan and Ajay Baisoya shot five-under 67 to share the opening day’s honours in the Rs. 70-lakh TATA Steel PGTI MP Cup golf championship here on Tuesday. Full-field event On a day that saw the return of PGTI’s full-field event after seven years at the Delhi Golf Club course, prominent stars like S.S.P. Chawrasia, Shiv Kapur, Udayan Mane and Jyoti Randhawa struggled. In contrast, lesser-known names like Gulfam and Sharavan Desai followed the leading quartet to share fifth place at 68. Chikkarangappa, second in the PGTI Order of Merit, made seven birdies and two bogeys during the round, highlighted by a 40-foot birdie-putt on the 12th. Manu, who shot three birdies on the first four holes, kept his form going and managed some long putts to share the lead. Rashid more than made up for starting with a bogey and an indifferent front nine by firing four successive birdies on the back nine. Baisoya delights Baisoya produced the most eventful round of the day. He sank two eagles, five birdies as against four bogeys. Among the stars who failed to shine, Randhawa shot a 71 to be tied 25th. Chawrasia (73) was tied 50th, Shiv Kapur (74) was tied 61st and Mane (75) shared the 76th spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stars-struggle-as-four-share-lead-at-67/article36850642.ece
06 October 2021||London,||United must pick best players: Ferguson||Alex Ferguson has added to the growing pressure on Ole Gunnar Solskjaer by criticising the Manchester United manager’s decision to use Cristiano Ronaldo as a substitute against Everton. Solskjaer surprisingly left Ronaldo on the bench for the first 57 minutes of Saturday’s 1-1 draw at Old Trafford.  In a conversation with former UFC champion Khabib Nurmagomedov in the directors’ lounge at Old Trafford, United legend Ferguson was filmed saying “you should always start with your best players”. In the video, posted on Nurmagomedov’s Instagram account on Sunday, Ferguson suggested Everton got a boost “when they saw Ronaldo wasn’t playing”.  Speaking after the Everton game, Solskjaer defended his decision to rest Ronaldo. “Me and him, we understand more than the experts,” he said. “It’s about picking the right moments to play him, to not play him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-must-pick-best-players-ferguson/article36850901.ece
06 October 2021||JAMSHEDPUR,||Abhishek guides Delhi to compound title||Seasoned archer Abhishek Verma overcame the odds of travelling across several time zones and contrasting weather conditions to help Delhi beat a youthful Andhra Pradesh side 230-227 in the final and win the compound men’s team title in the 40th NTPC National archery championships at the Tata Archery Academy campus here on Tuesday. Abhishek, who claimed a mixed team silver medal with V. Jyothi Surekha in the World championships in Yankton and competed in the World Cup Final in the same US city before returning on October 1, shot well to enable Delhi, the last edition’s silver medallist, to come from behind and claim the crown. Delhi, also comprising Aman Saini and Ritik Chahal, trailed 56-59 after the opening end as the Andhra trio of Kunderu Venkatadri, Manoj Kumar and Thirumu Ganesh Mani Ratnam gave a tough fight. Encouraged by fourth member Kawalpreet Singh, Delhi raised its game with a perfect score of 60 in the next to draw parity (116-116) before winning the third and fourth. “I managed this performance despite jet lag and the hugely different weather conditions, it was cold in the USA and it’s hot here. We slipped a bit, but recovered well,” said Abhishek. In the women’s final, Madhya Pradesh, consisting of Ragini Marko, Muskan Kirar and Srishti Singh, beat Punjab in a closely-contested final 232-230 to bag the team championship.   The results:   Compound: Team: Men: Final: Delhi bt Andhra Pradesh 230-227.   Third place: Maharashtra bt Haryana 232-229.   Women: Final: M.P. bt Punjab 232-230; Third place: All India Police bt Jharkhand 226-223 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-guides-delhi-to-compound-title/article36850356.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I will come to Chennai and play my last game there’||M.S. Dhoni, at a virtual function on Tuesday to celebrate 75 years of India Cements Ltd., dropped his biggest hint that he will continue to play in the IPL. The former India skipper had announced his retirement from international cricket on August 15 last year. Asked by a fan why he chose that date, Dhoni said, “it can’t be a better day than that.” “When it comes to a farewell, you can come and see me play for CSK, and that can be my farewell game. So you will get the opportunity to bid me farewell. Hopefully, I will come to Chennai, play my last game there and meet all the fans,” said Dhoni. N. Srinivasan, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, India Cements, along with CSK players Deepak Chahar, Shardul Thakur and Imran Tahir, spoke about the company’s 75-year journey at the virtual function.  “Ever since the advent of Chennai Super Kings, India Cements has gone to another level. It is more likely to say India Cements is now known because of CSK as it is for being 75 years old. “India Cements is a strong brand but CSK outbeat it in no time. For that, we have to thank only one person — captain M.S. Dhoni,” said Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-come-to-chennai-and-play-my-last-game-there/article36850381.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Not a personal battle: Ashwin on Morgan incident||Delhi Capitals off-spinner R. Ashwin opened up about his verbal exchange with Eoin Morgan and Tim Southee during his team’s match against Kolkata Knight Riders last week. The exchange, which took place after Ashwin’s dismissal, followed a sequence during which Ashwin and Rishabh Pant took a run off an overthrow that had deflected off the DC captain. Speaking about it on Monday after his side’s win over CSK, Ashwin said, “I think it is definitely not a personal battle or one-on-one battle. “The incident that happened the other day was, I got really charged up because that was entirely untoward by both Tim Southee and Eoin Morgan to give the batter a send-off who just got out.  “The worst situation was that I was not aware that the ball had hit Rishabh, so I just felt like that they already decided to have a go at me. That is one of the reasons I said that the words that were used were not in the right direction and not in the right space,” he added. “I would not say anyone is wrong here, it is just that the sort of way the game was played in the 1940s cannot be the same way you want somebody else to apply it. “My two cents to this is, I am sure you like to play the game the way you want to, but do not expect that [from others], if it is not within the laws of the game, and have a go at them for unnecessary reasons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-a-personal-battle-ashwin-on-morgan-incident/article36850371.ece
06 October 2021||Karachi,||PHF confident of taking part in Junior WC||Pakistan Hockey Federation (PHF) is confident of participating in the FIH Junior World Cup to be held in Bhubaneswar from November 24 to December 5, after having missed the last edition of the event in India due to visa issues. PHF President Brig (retd.) Khalid Sajjad Khokar said that despite being informed late about the tournament by the world body (FIH), the federation has still managed to send all necessary documents to the Indian High Commission on time for smooth processing of visas for its contingent. “We don’t want to see a repeat of what happened last time when the Junior World Cup was held in India in 2016. We have now submitted all documents so there is enough time for the host country to issue us required visas,” he said. “We are confident this time there will be no glitches and our team will be given the best security for the World Cup,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/phf-confident-of-taking-part-in-junior-wc/article36850439.ece
06 October 2021||Paris,||Mbappe reveals Euro backlash||France striker Kylian Mbappe has revealed that after Euro 2020 came to an end, he received a message from the national team that it could have won had Mbappe not been a part of the side. “I have never taken a single euro to play for the French national team and I will always play for my national team for free. Above all, I never wanted to be the problem. But from the moment where I felt like that I was starting to become a problem and that people felt I was a problem. ... I received the message, that my ego was what made us lose, that I wanted to take up too much space and that without me, therefore, we might have won,” Mbappe said in an extensive interview published in L’Equipe , as reported by Goal.com. “The most important thing is the French national team and if the team is happier without me, I’ll go. I met with the president (Noel Le Graet) and we talked about it. What I went to complain to him about was that I was insulted and called a ‘monkey’ for missing a penalty. That is not the same thing. I will never complain about a penalty. The penalty, I was the one who missed it,” he added. The striker has dubbed the missed penalty as the “low point” of his career. “I could have gotten more on-field support, I agree. But I would have never gone to demand it”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mbappe-reveals-euro-backlash/article36850443.ece
06 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No hockey teams to CWG||India on Tuesday pulled out of next year’s Birmingham Commonwealth Games’ hockey competition, citing COVID-19 concerns. Hockey India (HI) president Gyanandro Ningombam communicated the decision to Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra. HI reasoned that there is only a 32-day window available between the CWG (July 28-Aug. 8) and Asian Games (Sept. 10-25) and it can’t risk sending players to the United Kingdom which has been badly affected by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-hockey-teams-to-cwg/article36850282.ece
06 October 2021||GUNTUR:,||Krishna wins trophy||Krishna scored a 58-run win over Guntur in the final of the ACA Central Zone Inter-district (under-25) men’s one-day cricket championship at Pericharla. Batting first, Krishna scored 225 with M. Siddhartha Naidu (60, 103b, 4x4) being the top-scorer even as P.P. Manohar claimed four wickets for Guntur. In reply, Guntur folded up for 168 with S.D. Dastagiri taking three wickets.  The scores:   Krishna 225 in 49.5 overs (M. Siddhartha Naidu 60, V. Vishal 42, P.P. Manohar 4/44, T. Srinivas 336) bt Guntur 168 in 45.3 overs (Y. Koutilya 50, G. Karthikeya Hari 32, S.D. Dastagiri 3/23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishna-wins-trophy/article36850648.ece
06 October 2021||Mouilleron-le-Captif (France),||Balaji to partner Divij||Sriram Balaji was beaten 6-2, 7-6(0) by top seed Zizou Bergs of Belgium in the first qualifying round of the €66,604 Challenger tennis tournament in France. Balaji will partner Divij Sharan in doubles.  The results:   Qualifying singles (first round): Zizou Bergs (Bel) bt Sriram Balaji 6-2, 7-6(0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balaji-to-partner-divij/article36850641.ece
06 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Kenkre beats Kerala United||Kenkre FC came from a goal down to defeat Kerala United FC 2-1 in a Group-B match of the 2021 I-League Qualifiers here on Tuesday.  The results:   Kenkre FC 2 (Lester Fernandez 65, Ranjeet Singh Pandre 72) bt Kerala United FC 1 (Bujair Valiyattu 48).   Corbett FC 1 (Himanshu Patil 15) drew with ARA FC (Vladislav Nuriev 75).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kenkre-beats-kerala-united/article36850283.ece
06 October 2021||MUMBAI,||PKL Season 8 from December 22||The eighth season of Pro Kabaddi League (PKL) will begin on December 22 in Bengaluru. The player auctions were conducted between August 29 and 31 in Mumbai. Mashal Sports, the organisers, said keeping the health and safety of players in mind, this year the league will be held without spectators at a single venue, moving away from the traditional caravan format.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pkl-season-8-from-december-22/article36850284.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Story of Rama||Kulasekhara Azhvar in his Thillai Thiruchitrakootam pasurams, says that Lord Rama heard His entire story from sage Agastya. He also listened to the narration by Lava and Kusa, His sons, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi, in a discourse. When Lava and Kusa sang the story of Rama, the people of Ayodhya were so mesmerised by the musical narration, that they did not notice that Rama had left His throne and had moved to sit among them. Rama’s name and Rama’s story have a pull that even Rama in the flesh did not have! Hanuman was so taken with Rama and His name, that he was not interested in accompanying Rama to Sri Vaikuntha, where worship of the Lord in the form of Rama was not possible. Hanuman, instead, chose to stay back on earth, declaring that he would be present wherever Rama’s name was uttered. Like Hanuman, Tondaradippodi Azhvar and Thiruppaan Azhvar also did not express a keenness for Sri Vaikuntha. Tondaradippodi Azhvar said he would far rather be in Srirangam, feasting his eyes on Lord Ranganatha, than go to Sri Vaikuntha. Tondaradippodi Azhvar’s use of the phrase “Indira lokam” is not a reference to svarga loka, which he would not at all be interested in. He is talking about Paramapada. To Tondaradippodi Azhvar, even Parampada is not as desirable as being in Srirangam. Thiruppaan Azhvar, likewise, said that his eyes which had seen Lord Ranganatha, would see nothing else. Perhaps, this similarity in thought is the reason why idols of Tondaradippodi Azhvar, Thiruppaan Azhvar and Hanuman are in close proximity in the Srirangam temple. Kulasekhara Azhvar, too, can rightly be placed in this category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/story-of-rama/article36850329.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 07:59 IST,||Sudoku — October 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-6-2021/article36851054.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||He clicked with stars||Septuagenarian Ashwath Narayan may have retired as a cinema still photographer, but he remains a busy man. He has images that have captured, actors and directors from 1965 to 2000. “I have around three lakh images and am converting them and the negatives into a digital format,” says Ashwath, adding “This is my way of preserving their legacy.” Ashwath credits his brother for instilling the passion for still photography in him. “He was running the Three Stars Studio in Madras then. It was dedicated to cinema photography. He invited me to take care of his studio as soon as I was done with my Class X exams. One day, a senior photographer did not turn up on set and I was sent to take his place.” Ashwath later realised he was working on the sets of the Kannada film Belli Moda, which featured Kalpana, directed by Puttanna Kanagal. Ever since, Ashwath has seen everything through his lens. “I was the still photographer for 11 films with Puttanna and 15 films with Siddalingiah. I also worked on Guru Shishyaru, Malaya Marhutha... Those days still photography and print reigned; people would wait for cinema content, which was published only on weekends. Photographs would be given a massive display on the news pages. We revelled in that glory.” Ashwath says many filmmakers leaned heavily on still photography to check the continuity of the scenes. Images would be documented in albums, which kept a record of the costume, make up and hairstyle. Many of Ashwath’s images find their way into stories in print and books on cinema even today: 300 of his pictures, are in Dr Rajkumar Samagra Charithre, written by Doddahulluru Rukkoji. The coffee table book won the National Award in the Best Book on Cinema category. While they worked in both black-and-white as well as colour, the former was more challenging, according to Ashwath. “We had to capture every detail and bring the image to life with just those two colours. Technology has unfortunately killed certain nuances of photography. ” He adds, however “We must use technology to document our heritage.” He plans to create a virtual library for cinema, which will give access to anyone with an interest in Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam cinema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/he-clicked-with-stars/article36850566.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The man behind the #ValimaiUpdate||What connects former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edapaddi Palanisamy and England cricketer Moeen Ali? Both have been asked Valimai updates in recent times. Starved of news about Thala Ajith Kumar’s upcoming Tamil biggie from its makers, fans of the actor have been posing the question to people from different walks of life. Naturally, “ Valimai update” became a viral trend. So much so that it forced the makers to issue statements, and finally, post the update itself… with official posters and the recently-released teaser — fans seem to be satiated. Heaving a sigh of relief and happy with the response is producer Boney Kapoor, the man in demand among Ajith fans, considering the elusive nature of the star. In a telephonic interview from Mumbai, the producer shares the latest on the film: How have reactions been to the recently-released teaser video? It has been extraordinary. It shows the effort put in by Ajith, Karthikeya, director H Vinoth, and the entire stunt team. How did the team go about shooting the bike stunt sequences, which many say will be a highlight? We waited for over a year to shoot this six-day-long sequence. Ajith was most excited about it, and we did not want to compromise on its quality. We roped in one of the best stunt teams from Russia, and shot the sequence in a place 300 miles from Moscow. Many locals from that little town came along to greet Ajith on the set! As a producer, what went through your mind when so many people were asking about updates? Fans are well within their rights to ask for updates, because they love Ajith a lot. However, I did not want to mislead them. I wanted to give out material only when there was something concrete at hand. While most of the portions were shot over a year back, we had to patiently wait to complete this crucial sequence. I have always been a directors’ producer. If I have confidence in the director, like I do with Vinoth, I will ensure that the vision is fulfilled. What gave you that confidence in Vinoth, who is relatively new to the industry? His work will talk. He believes in expressing himself through his films. It was Ajith who sent Vinoth to my Mumbai residence to narrate some film ideas a few years back. I remember my wife [the late actor Sridevi] conversing with him in Tamil, and being impressed with his story lines. His vision was clear, and ours has been a happy journey. In fact, my next film will also be with Ajith and Vinoth. As a person producing films since the ‘80s, what do you think is unique about Ajith? Less is more is an adage that fits him well. He never believes in public appearances, and keeps away from all PR activity. This means that the appetite of audiences is never fully fulfilled. We hear you came to Chennai for the first day first show of Ajith’s hit Viswasam (2019) … I have never seen or experienced something like that before. There were thousands of people waiting outside the theatre well past midnight, to try to watch the first show. When I walked out after the film ended, there were thousands waiting for the next show. There are chances of Vijay’s Beast also being released for Pongal 2022. If that happens, Ajith and Vijay, two of the biggest stars of Tamil cinema, will clash at the box office. Your thoughts? Well, if it does, Pongal will get brighter for the fans of both stars.  A field day Apart from Valimai , Boney Kapoor also has his hands full with Hindi sports drama Maidaan . Starring Ajay Devgn as a football coach, the film will, in Boney’s words, ‘chronicle the golden period of Indian football that many have forgotten’. He says, “We put up an entire set to shoot the important football matches, but we had to cancel the shoot thrice due to the pandemic and a cyclone. We are in the process of rebuilding that set, and will kickstart shoot in October.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-man-behind-the-valimaiupdate/article36850568.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding another layer||Mamta Mohandas watched Andhadhun (2018) in order to prepare for its Malayalam remake Bhramam ,  to study how Tabu approached the character of Simi. She is reprising Tabu’s character in the remake directed by cinematographer Ravi K Chandran and stars Prithviraj Sukumaran, Sankar Panicker and Raashi Khanna. “There is a significant age difference between Simi and me, so it wasn’t going to be easy, as I am far younger than her. I had to bring in cuteness and ‘bubbliness’. When you see someone like that, you don’t expect her to do something as crazy as what she ends up doing in the film,” she says. Tabu’s Simi is a layered character in the original, as is Bhramam’s Gia, says Mamta. She enjoyed the character’s complexity more, counting it among the best characters she has done. “The character travels through so many layers. She is complex, we don’t get to meet such characters in real life. It is all in the writing! I hope I have been able to bring new things into it,” she adds. She cherishes the experience of working with veteran cinematographer Ravi K Chandran who is making his directorial debut in Malayalam. “Raviettan is a beautiful person to interact with. He is the kind who remembers and cherishes things. We all know him as a cinematographer, but he was excited to wear the director’s hat. He was only worried about how a scene would turn out, not how it would look because that [cinematography] is his department. He went into the core of the script, which gave me the energy, excitement and freedom to approach the role.” There is another connection between Ravi K Chandran and Mamta: his older brother, Ramachandra Babu, was the cinematographer for her first film, Mayookham .  Bhramam is Mamta’s OTT debut and she admits she is very excited about the October 7 release. “People everywhere can watch a film the same day it releases. Besides that, this platform has given producers an opportunity to give some of their old content, which the world can watch from the safety of their homes at the click of a button. Not all films can be enjoyed like that, but many can be. It will come to a point where different content will be made for OTT streaming and screening in theatres.” She believes writers and actors can create content without fear of censorship — “There is the freedom to executing certain scripts. An OTT platform is free to take on sensitive subjects or not. Writers can write what they want and actors can accept the roles they want to. There is an audience for everything, regardless of the language. We have understood that. It is sad to say this, the first seven-eight years of my career seem insignificant... we didn’t have these platforms to promote our work!” Last year, in November, Mamta launched her production company, Mamta Mohandas Productions, with a Malayalam rap single. She has a few scripts and will announce the company’s first production later this year or early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/adding-another-layer/article36850569.ece
06 October 2021||October 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Paradise regained||The peonies are lovely this year. They are scattered on yards of green, blue and yellow — of organza, georgette and crepe. The motif is central to Ashdeen Lilaowala’s Paradise Crafted, the latest collection of Parsi gara saris, jackets and skirts. As is the lotus, and the designer’s signatures such as the crane and the butterfly. But on a quick morning call, he waxes eloquent about the peonies. “We have worked the blossom in great detail,” he says. “The shading [with multiple colours], the rendering, it’s very realistic. The petals are curled, you can see the foreground and the background, making it very dynamic.” For close to two decades, Lilaowala has been researching the legacy of the Parsis’ intricate hand embroidery. He’s brought back key motifs — like the quirkily-named Cheena Cheeni (Chinese man and woman) — and rooted the storied craft in a contemporary vocabulary (iterations of slim pants, jackets, kaftans and tops are now trousseau essentials). And now, with every collection, he hones these connections. “We are constantly trying to find new links,” shares the designer, who is simultaneously working on what he hopes will be a seminal book on Parsi gara. “We’ve re-looked at our motifs... we have a butterfly sari, where we’ve taken the insects and blown them up. But, at the same time, the rendering is so realistic that it almost looks 3D,” he shares. For this collection, he’s worked with new fabrics, too, including lace, georgette satin and raw silk. With its debut in Chennai, at a pop-up at Amethyst a couple of days ago, the collection will go up on their website soon, and will head to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Baroda in November and December. In the meantime, Instagram has Chennai locals Kavya Ramachandran, co-founder of Sukha Education Foundation, and dancer Anita Ratnam captured at Egmore Museum and Napier Bridge, in the drapes. “With every city we visit, we connect with local photographers and models. Our only brief is to put our sari in their city’s context. We also get a few of our clients to wear the saris.” Lilaowala has expanded on the ‘paradise’ theme by incorporating a “Shangrila-esque feel” through embroidery featuring mountains, waterfalls and angels. But what inspired the paradise interpretations? “Post pandemic, the morale is low. There are a lot of mixed emotions. So, while we may not be in a Utopic situation, we can lighten things up, bring in a bit of joy. Like when you wear a sari from this line.”  Priced from Rs. 1,35,000 onwards. Check out Paradise Crafted — in rich, saturated colours such as alphonso yellow, tangerine, Irish purple, Arabian green, and the like — on ashdeen.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/paradise-regained/article36850567.ece
06 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. sends ration scheme file to L-G again||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday once again sent the file related to the Delhi government’s ambitious Doorstep Delivery of Ration project to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. Last week, the Delhi High Court had allowed the government to conditionally implement the scheme. Mr. Kejriwal appealed to the L-G to approve the scheme so that the beneficiaries start getting the ration delivered at their doorstep soon. Hearing a writ petition on September 27, the High Court modified its order dated March 22, 2021, allowing the Delhi government to implement the scheme and deduct the supply being given to the Fair Price Shops in proportion to the beneficiaries opting for doorstep delivery. Model optional The court , in its order, also stated that the doorstep delivery model was optional for the beneficiaries and they can choose to go back to the ration distribution system through FPS. The Delhi government was about to start the implementation of the scheme before it was stalled. According to the government, the matter was heard by the High Court on September 27 with the court taking note of the government counsel’s submission that most of the beneficiaries had opted for supply of ration at their doorstep. The counsel had also submitted that the Delhi government will also give an option to the beneficiaries to opt out of the scheme if they so desire. After the implementation of the scheme, ration card holders will not have to wait for the opening of ration shops or stand in long queues, the government said. Ration will be delivered at the beneficiaries’ doorsteps in sealed packets and no convenience fee will be charged. The beneficiaries will just need to provide their thumb impression to receive the ration, the government added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-sends-ration-scheme-file-to-l-g-again/article36850586.ece
06 October 2021||Mumbai,||Over 300 children get COVID-19 aid||The Maharashtra government has disbursed Rs. 15.30 crore so far to more than 306 children who lost their parents to the coronavirus. The State government had last month announced that Rs. 5 lakh each would be extended to help secure their future. Children in 24 districts, including Chandrapur, Sangli, Wardha, Solapur and Alibag, have received the aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-300-children-get-covid-19-aid/article36850584.ece
06 October 2021||Imphal,||Manipur relaxes COVID-19 curbs||The COVID-19 restrictions in Manipur have been further relaxed as there is a slight improvement in the situation, according to a State government order. The night curfew would now be in force between 8.30 p.m. and 4 a.m., the order on Tuesday said. Assembly of persons at 50% of the capacity would be permitted at weddings and other religious functions. All religious places would be allowed to reopen. The new order would be in force till October 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manipur-relaxes-covid-19-curbs/article36850583.ece
