10 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Union Minister’s son arrested after 11 hours of interrogation||Ashish Mishra ‘Monu’, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was arrested late on Saturday after over 11 hours of questioning, for non-cooperation during interrogation in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and farmers’ deaths case, a senior police officer said. DIG in-charge of the probe Upendra Agrawal said Mr. Ashish did not co-operate during interrogation, and was not willing to share certain things asked of him. “For non-cooperation and evasive reply: on these grounds we are taking him into custody and arresting him,” Mr. Agarwal said. Mr. Ashish would be produced before a court, said the officer, adding that the police would carry out a sustained custodial interrogation of the accused. The Minister’s son has been named as an accused in the murder case lodged by farmers after cars belonging to his father’s convoy ran over protesting farmers in Tikonia on October 3. Eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in the incident. Following the incident, Mr. Ashish was named in an FIR for murder, criminal conspiracy, rash driving and death by negligence, among other charges. On Saturday morning, Mr. Ashish appeared for questioning at the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur after the police issued him summons a second time as he failed to turn up after the first one on Friday. Mr. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before them at 11 a.m. The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday arrested two persons in connection with the case. On Friday, Mr. Ajay Mishra, told reporters in Lucknow that Ashish did not go to the police as he was unwell, and that he was staying at their Shahpur Kothi residence. ‘Not present at spot’ Mr. Ajay Mishra maintained that his son was not at the site of the incident or in any of the cars that mowed down the farmers. Mr. Ashish was in their ancestral village Banveerpur attending the annual wrestling event organised by the family, he said. “My son would also have been killed had he been here,” he said, adding that hundreds of spectators at Banveerpur on the day of event were willing to submit affidavits about Mr. Ashish’s presence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-ministers-son-turns-up-before-police-for-questioning/article36923689.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KPCC finalises list of office-bearers||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has finalised the list of party office-bearers. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan are in New Delhi for last-minute consultations with the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The AlCC is likely to announce the list soon. The 51-member KPCC apex decision-making body will include general secretaries, vice presidents and secretaries. The leaders had consulted Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala before leaving for New Delhi. The Congress has attempted to engineer a generational shift in the party. The new list is supposedly a microcosm of Kerala society. It factors in caste and regional interests and strives to strike a winning social balance ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. The current organisational rejig aspires to enhance the party's public acceptance by giving representation to all groups. The emphasis is on the youth, character and organisational ability. Many youngsters felt they lacked opportunity. Women leaders saw no incentive to dedicate themselves to organisational causes. Anomalies rectified The new list aspires to correct the anomalies. The KPCC has excluded leaders holding elected office and those with a chequered history. It has exempted leaders who had neglected party responsibilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kpcc-finalises-list-of-office-bearers/article36924020.ece
10 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Will write to EC for ban on poll surveys: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday said she would write to the Election Commission seeking ban on all pre-poll surveys by agencies and media six months before any elections so that the polls are not impacted and the business of these agencies under the garb of surveys is shut. At a public meeting on the death anniversary of party founder Kanshi Ram, Ms. Mayawati said as elections approach the “casteist media” or “media sponsored against the BSP” would deliberately show her party to be in a weak condition. “The party people should not be misled by this in any manner,” she said. Ms. Mayawati gave the example of the recent polls in Bengal where the TMC had returned to power. She said while the survey agencies had shown Mamata Banerjee to be trailing, the results proved to be opposite. ‘Will not derail work’ The BSP chief also promised not to derail the ongoing work of the BJP government in “Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura and other religious places” if voted to power. Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls in early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-write-to-ec-for-ban-on-poll-surveys-mayawati/article36923873.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka tourism sector looks to be back on track||If the current trend is any indication, frustration over being locked in for nearly two years and the impact of the devastating second wave of COVID-19 has led to a tourism boom in Karnataka. Starting this weekend, and well into the next, the Dasara holiday season has brought good tidings to stakeholders in the sector. Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR), for example, is witnessing record occupancy rates, better than what was seen in the past 40 years. Senior officials said that since they reopened in July, the average occupancy has more than doubled from 20% to 50%. “During the weekends, we are almost full, so much so that it is almost impossible to get a room,” an official said. So what is fuelling this? “Safe destinations are in demand, especially ecotourism. September is a lean month, but we still had over 50% occupancy. In November, we expect this to go up further to 65% or 70%. Some properties are individually seeing 80% occupancy. And the peak season is December,” said the official, pointing out that the demand was here to stay. This is the common trend in government-owned properties, said Sindhu B. Rupesh, director of the Tourism Department. “Dasara is a simple affair this year. But the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and JLR properties are booked. The demand is not just in Mysuru, but in other districts too. They are all generally full and people are really travelling,” she said. M. Ravi, founder member of Karnataka Tourism Society, said that with COVID-19 cases having come down considerably, people who were staying indoors have started venturing out. “They are clubbing their holiday with Dasara. While some are travelling to experience the festival, most are actually going out to other destinations. Homestays, guesthouses, resorts — they are all going full for the next weekend. This is a very good sign for the industry,” he said. Apart from the usual popular destinations such as Mysuru, Kodagu, and Chikkamagaluru, he said Gokarna, Dandeli, Karwar, Murdeshwar, and the coastal belt of Mangaluru and Udupi had also improved a lot. But not many people are venturing outside the State yet, especially to Kerala, he added. However, he said that though taxis and other tourist vehicles were doing well, tourist buses were still suffering as no one wanted to go in a group yet. “Once corporate companies open again, this might change as they have group outings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-tourism-sector-looks-to-be-back-on-track/article36923720.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Traffic goes haywire as heavy rains lash twin cities||The horror of torrential downpour revisited the city on Saturday too, causing flooding, inundations and traffic jams as usual. Starting after 4 p.m., heavy rain continuously lashed the city for about an hour, creating mayhem on roads. Several areas reported deafening thunderbolts accompanied by lightning to add to the fury. Secunderabad received the highest rainfall at close to 10 centimetres, followed by Begumpet at about 9 centimetres as at 7 p.m. Eight flood gates of Himayatsagar and four of Osmansagar were lifted to release surplus water into Musi river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-goes-haywire-as-heavy-rains-lash-twin-cities/article36924253.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||China here to stay, says Army chief on Ladakh||With India and China scheduled to hold the 13th round of Corps Commander talks on Sunday, Army chief General Manoj Naravane, referring to the largescale build-up by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, on Saturday said that if the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay, the Indian Army is there to stay too. Gen. Naravane said if the Chinese side maintained the deployment through the second winter it would “definitely mean that we will be in a kind of LoC [Line of Control] situation though not an active LoC as is there on the western front”. Close watch “Yes, it is a matter of concern that the largescale build-up has occurred and continues to be in place, and to sustain that kind of a build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side,” Gen. Naravane said at the India Today conclave. “So, it means that they (China) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said. The 13th round of Corps Commander talks will start at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday at Moldo on the Chinese side, opposite Chushul, a defence official said. The focus of the talks will be on an agreement for the next phase of disengagement from Hot Springs and the overall de-escalation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Officials said the agreement for disengagement at Hot Springs was within reach as partial disengagement had already been undertaken last year and there were a few points to be resolved. This leaves the other friction areas of Depsang and Demchok which are going be tricky. The two sides have so far undertaken disengagement from the Pangong Tso and Gogra areas. Further, there is the issue of overall de-escalation along the LAC which is also going to be tough given the huge build-up by China that is matched by India as well as working out new protocols for patrolling. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) still has more than 50,000 troops deployed along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, according to officials. Gen. Naravane said it was difficult to understand why China sort of opened one more front (in Ladakh) while it has problems on its other borders. “But whatever it might have been, I do not think they have been able to achieve any of those because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces,” he added. Arunachal stand-off Citing Chinese military sources, State-run newspaper China Daily termed reports of Chinese soldiers being detained by Indian soldiers after a face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang Sector of Arunachal Pradesh as “purely fabricated and hyped by Indian media” and a “smear campaign” by the Indian side. The incident occurred last week as the two patrol teams came face to face and clashed following which some Chinese soldiers were detained for a few hours and released after the issue was resolved by the local commanders. According to a military source cited by China Daily , the Chinese border troops conducted a routine patrol on September 28 in the Dongzhang area on the “Chinese side of the Sino-Indian border and encountered unreasonable obstruction from the Indian military”. “The Chinese officers and soldiers took countermeasures resolutely and returned after the patrol mission was completed,” the newspaper quoted the source as having said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-here-to-stay-says-army-chief-on-ladakh/article36923687.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A bolt from the blue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-bolt-from-the-blue/article36923996.ece
10 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP is trying to discredit protest: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the ongoing protests against the Centre’s farm laws, on Saturday accused the BJP of attempting to discredit the current agitation by resorting to violent measures, and said its intent had been exposed in the backdrop of Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Larger conspiracy Senior SKM leader Darshan Pal said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence should not be seen in isolation as the incident was part of a larger conspiracy against farmers and their ongoing struggle. “It is an attempt to create an atmosphere to terrorise people and to shut people’s voice. The SKM will continue to raise the voice,” he said at a press meet in New Delhi. Joginder Singh, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the SKM constituents said the farmer’s agitation had been going on peacefully, but the BJP governments – be it at the Centre or in Uttar Pradesh — had been attempting various tactics to discredit the movement. “Sometimes they [BJP) associated the movement with ‘Khalistanis’, then with ‘Pakistan-China’ and then tried to label us as anti-national, but all their attempts have failed. Now, in the last few months they have started to play a new game, which is resorting to violence, and this is dangerous,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-is-trying-to-discredit-protest-skm/article36923690.ece
10 October 2021||bengaluru,||Centre urged to supply coal to power plants||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar called on Union Minister for Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday and appealed to him to ensure the supply of adequate quantity of coal to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-urged-to-supply-coal-to-power-plants/article36923719.ece
10 October 2021||bengaluru,||Govt. hospitals facing shortage of basic drugs||Government hospitals in Karnataka are facing an acute shortage of drugs, including paracetamol, antibiotics and anti-histamine, and are being forced to write prescriptions for patients to buy them from outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-hospitals-facing-shortage-of-basic-drugs/article36923723.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||BJP leader’s kin, 2 others let off in drugs case: NCP||NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday alleged that the Narcotics Control Bureau had detained former Mumbai BJP youth wing president Mohit Kumbhoj’s relative Rishabh Sachdeva and two others, but let them off later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leaders-kin-2-others-let-off-in-drugs-case-ncp/article36923874.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. clears Chief Justices’ appointments||The Central government cleared 13 transfers and appointments of Chief Justices to various High Courts. They are part of a major reshuffle orchestrated by the Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-clears-chief-justices-appointments/article36923875.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Police to get cybercrime probe training in Gujarat||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Saturday that the State Government would sign a memorandum of understanding with the Gujarat Government on strengthening the cybercrime investigation in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-to-get-cybercrime-probe-training-in-gujarat/article36924163.ece
10 October 2021||bengaluru,||‘Question accused in simple sentences’||The High Court of Karnataka has asked trial courts prepare simple and unambiguous questionnaires while posing questions to the accused appearing in cases under Section 313 of CrPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/question-accused-in-simple-sentences/article36923973.ece
10 October 2021||bengaluru,||Centre urged to supply coal to power plants||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar called on Union Minister for Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday and appealed to him to ensure the supply of adequate quantity of coal to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-urged-to-supply-coal-to-power-plants/article36923974.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai,||Govt. sets up advisory committee for IT sector||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted an advisory committee to act as a think tank to suggest proactive policy changes so that the State could benefit from innovation and technology of the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sets-up-advisory-committee-for-it-sector/article36923779.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai,||1,344 people test positive in Tamil Nadu||Fresh cases continued to gradually dip in the State, as 1,344 people tested positive. The positivity rate was 0.9% for the second day in a row. Fourteen persons died, while 29 districts saw no death. Chennai recorded 164 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 137 and Chengalpattu with 101.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1344-people-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article36923781.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Torchbearers of freedom of expression||In awarding the Nobel Peace Prize for 2021 to two embattled journalists, Maria Ressa from the Philippines and Dmitri A. Muratov of Russia, the Nobel committee has made a clear-cut statement on the state of freedom of expression in an era that has seen the rise and rise of authoritarian “populists” in several countries. It made it amply clear in its announcement that while Ms. Ressa and Mr. Muratov were receiving the prize for their courageous fight for freedom of expression in their respective countries, “they are representatives of all journalists who stand for this ideal in a world in which democracy and freedom of the press face increasingly adverse conditions.” Investigative journalism Ms Ressa, aged 58, has had a long career in journalism which includes stints as the bureau chief of CNN in Manila and Jakarta, having made her mark as the network’s lead investigative reporter in Asia. In 2012, she co-founded Rappler, a digital media company focused on investigative journalism that began as a Facebook page called MovePH before becoming a complete website. Rappler made its mark focusing specifically on Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s controversial anti-drug campaign, featuring the deaths of thousands of suspected drug dealers and addicts in a series of articles called the “Impunity series” in 2016. The campaign has been widely discredited for targeting the poor in extrajudicial deaths and for the impunity afforded to law enforcement agencies in doing so. Later, it focused on how social media and internet were being “weaponised” to spread fake news, troll and harass political opponents and to manipulate public discourse, chiefly by President Duterte’s campaign, in another series called the “Propaganda series”. This series of articles shed light on organised disinformation using the internet in the Philippines. As the Cambridge Analytica-Facebook scandal, or the Donald Trump presidency’s use of social media to weaponise disinformation, or organised disinformation on the internet by covert agencies from Russia, or the barrage of fake news using messenger services in India have shown, the era of the “infodemic” is well and truly upon the world. The Nobel Committee’s recognition of Ms. Ressa’s work is an acknowledgement of the severity of this problem. Beyond work on the drug campaign and disinformation, Rappler also exposed government corruption and shed light on the financial holdings of political leaders and their possible conflicts of interest. Rappler also became a member of the Poynter Institute’s International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN). Rappler’s investigative work also earned it the government’s ire. In 2017, President Duterte called the outlet by name and falsely stated that it was a “foreign-owned” firm in his state-of-the-union address. The country’s Securities and Exchange Commission looked into the company’s ownership structure and revoked its licence even as Ms. Ressa herself was charged with tax evasion in December 2018. She denied the charges and the case was in suspension. Later, the country’s National Bureau of Investigation filed a “cyber libel” case against Ms. Ressa and a writer for the website and found them guilty with a prison sentence up to six years, but were allowed to post bail pending an appeal. The case, regarded as a blow to press freedom in the Philippines, pertained to an article by a researcher with Rappler, Reynaldo Santos Jr. citing an intelligence report that spoke of a business executive being linked to drug smuggling and trafficking. That the case was made against Ms. Ressa, who was not involved in day-to-day editorial operations at Rappler, raised questions if the Bureau was specifically targeting her even as the media fraternity claimed that the case had a chilling effect on investigative journalism in the country. Ms. Ressa welcomed the news of the award saying, “This is not about us [Rappler]. This is about you. Because freedom of the press is the foundation of every single right you have as a Filipino citizen”. Critical towards power Dmitry Muratov, aged 59 and the co-winner of the Prize, is the editor of the Novaya Gazeta newspaper in Russia. The Committee mentions that Mr. Muratov “has for decades defended freedom of speech in Russia under increasingly challenging conditions”. Mr. Muratov began his career as a correspondent for the Volzhsky Komsomolets newspaper and later edited news articles at Komsomolskaya Pravda before he and scores of colleagues from the paper left to start their own publication, Novaya Gazeta , with an aim to run “an honest, independent, and rich” source of news for Russian citizens. In 1993, former Soviet Union president Mikhail Gorbachev donated a portion of his Nobel Peace Prize money to the newly set-up newspaper, helping it buy computers for operations. Remarkably, nearly 30 years after being helped to set up by the architect of the ‘glasnost’ (openness and transparency) reforms in the erstwhile Soviet Union, the paper’s editor has won the same prize. Mr. Muratov has been the editor-in-chief for more than two decades and the Committee recognises that Novaya Gazeta is “the most independent newspaper in Russia, today, with a fundamentally critical attitude towards power” and that the “newspaper’s fact-based journalism and professional integrity have made it an important source of information on censurable aspects of Russian society rarely mentioned by other media.” The newspaper also uniquely elects its editors since 2009 who go on to serve two-year terms. The newspaper, the Committee records, “has published critical articles on subjects ranging from corruption, police violence, unlawful arrests, electoral fraud and “troll factories” to the use of Russian military forces both within and outside Russia” and is best known for its investigative stories on the war in Chechnya and the wealthy oligarchs in post-Soviet Russia. The publication has suffered for its boldness; six of its journalists have been killed. The most well-known among them was Anna Politkovskaja, who wrote several telling pieces on the conduct of the war in Chechnya. It is still not known who ordered contract killers to take the life of Ms. Politkovskaja, who was shot dead outside her apartment in 2006. Other hard-hitting stories carried by the newspaper included those on the repression of homosexuals in Chechnya in 2017. The newspaper has been credited with pioneering investigative reporting against the Russian elite with other online publications taking cue from it despite threats to the free press in the country. Mr. Muratov, in his reaction to the award, claimed that he expected it to be given to Russian political dissident and opposition leader Alexei A. Navalny, who survived a poison attack last year and is currently in jail. Even as the Russian government praised the Committee’s awarding the Peace prize to Mr. Muratov, several leading Russian-language news outlets have been recently subject to a crackdown, being termed “foreign agents” and investigative journalists have been forced into exile. Russia ranks 150 among 180 countries in the latest World Press Freedom Index, released annually by the Reporters sans Frontiers (Philippines is ranked a lowly 138 and India slipped to 142 in the rankings too). The Committee strongly argued the case for the Prize, by saying that “freedom of expression and freedom of information help to ensure an informed public. These rights are crucial prerequisites for democracy and protect against war and conflict. The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov is intended to underscore the importance of protecting and defending these fundamental rights.”  In Focus Maria Ressa’s digital news outlet Rappler made its mark focusing specifically on the Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s controversial anti-drug campaign Dmitry Muratov foundedNovaya Gazetain the post-Soviet Russia and, according to the Nobel Committee, it ‘is the most independent newspaper in Russia, today’  They ‘are representatives of all journalists who stand for this ideal in a world in which democracy and freedom of the press face increasingly adverse conditions’, says the Nobel Committee   Muratov said he expected the award to be given to Russian opposition leader Alexei A. Navalny, who survived a poison attack last year and is currently in prison||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/torchbearers-of-freedom-of-expression/article36923595.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Green pacts inked at India, Denmark summit||India and Denmark signed two agreements on research in climate change, while another MoU on setting up a “green hydrogen” electrolyser plant was signed between Reliance Industries and Danish company Stiesdal Fuel Technologies as Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen on Saturday. This was the first summit-level visit to India since the onset of the pandemic, and the first State visit by a Danish leader since a bilateral freeze on ties a decade ago. ‘New dimensions’ “We also took a decision today that we will continue to expand the scope of our cooperation, adding new dimensions to it. We have initiated a new partnership in the field of health. In order to increase the agricultural productivity and income of farmers in India, we have also decided to cooperate in agriculture-related technology,” said Mr. Modi after the bilateral summit, adding that joint ventures on food safety, cold chains, food processing and water management would be explored as a result of their discussions. The government agreements, including one between the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the Geological survey of Denmark to conduct groundwater mapping and the other between the Indian Institute of Science and Danfoss Industries to set up a research centre on carbon-based cooling systems are part of the “Green Strategic Partnership” that India and Denmark forged after a virtual summit between Mr. Modi and Ms. Frederiksen in September 2020. Meanwhile, the commercial MoU between Reliance Industries Limited and Stiesdal Fuel Technologies will work on development of a hydrogen electrolyser for zero-carbon hydrogen to be manufactured in India. Stiesdal founder Henrik Stiesdal is also on Reliance’s nine-member “New Energy Council” announced in August this year, with plans to build four factories for the production of solar photovoltaic modules, electrolysers, fuel cells, and storage batteries in Gujarat. “I am proud that Danish solutions play a key role when it comes to your very ambitious targets and I think you are an inspiration for the rest of the world. You have set some very ambitious targets when it comes to clean water for over one million households and for renewable energy including off-shore wind,” Ms. Frederiksen said after the meeting. India has also been engaged with European partners to drop objections to an India-South Africa proposal at the World Trade Organisation in October 2020 that seeks to have all patents related to COVID medicines and vaccines waived during the pandemic. When asked, MEA officials didn’t confirm whether Mr. Modi had raised the issue, but said Ms. Frederiksen had been “impressed” with India’s vaccination drive. “We know that COVID is a major concern for the global community so this issue of how both countries are tackling COVID came up for discussion….We remain engaged with our partners on the WTO [proposal], and it is taking its course,” said Reenat Sandhu, Secretary (West) at the MEA. Kim Davy issue Ms. Frederiksen is the first Danish leader to be accorded a State visit since 2008, after which relations between the two countries soured over India’s demand that Denmark extradite its citizen Kim Davy, who was the accused in the massive arms dump case in Purulia of 1995. To a question on the issue of Denmark’s refusal to deport Mr. Davy thus far, Ms. Sandhu said that “this matter was raised and we have an understanding that the legal process must go forward and both countries are working on it.” The two leaders also discussed the situation in Afghanistan and shared common concerns on terrorism, rights of women and minorities and the need for an inclusive government, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/green-pacts-inked-at-india-denmark-summit/article36923566.ece
10 October 2021||Budgam,||A sense of unease grips Pandit colonies||A sense of unease is palpable in the gated Sheikhpora Migrant Colony, home to around 75 migrant Pandits, in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Saturday. However, many Pandits have resolved not to migrate again, like in the 1990s, in the face of fresh targeted killings by the militants earlier this week. The gates of the colony, with a concrete boundary wall and concertina wires for additional security, are bolted from the inside. No outsider is allowed into the premises, not even the milkmen for the time being. During the night, the flash lights ensure that any movement towards the colony is spotted. “The Budgam authorities have promised that grocery and other essentials are delivered at the colony to avoid our movement outside for the time being. We have been advised against visiting volatile pockets, especially the old city,” said a Pandit, who returned to the Valley in 2010 under the Prime Minister’s Return and Rehabilitation Scheme. A Pandit teacher, who serves in a government school in the old city, said her family has decided to stay put here. “I am hopeful it won’t be a repeat of the 1990s. We are not shifting for now. We plan to stay back. I am in touch with my Muslim colleagues constantly. They have been helpful. We are safe but a sense of scare is unavoidable after militants targeted teachers inside a school recently,” the teacher said. Many Pandits who live in rented accommodations in Budgam’s Humhama area are also planning to shift to designated colonies such as the one in Sheikhpora. “We feel insecure living outside these colonies now,” another Pandit, who runs a business, said. At least 3,800 Pandit migrants returned to the Valley since 2010, after taking up government jobs. They are staying in designated colonies in south, north and central Kashmir. Security has been beefed up in all the colonies and the administration has reached out to the Pandits to address their security concerns, after militants killed a chemist, a Sikh principal and a teacher recently. ‘Well-planned plot’ “The recent killings of minority civilians are part of a well-planned terror action plot to drive out the remaining minorities in the Valley. We had already intimated the Centre that the launch of migrant distress sales portal will trigger an anti-minority feeling in some quarters, especially the land mafia,” Satish Mahaldar, chairman of the Reconciliation Return and Rehabilitation of Migrants, said. He said these attacks were a reminder that the counter-insurgency strategies had failed. “The premature and triumphalist claims about normalcy in Kashmir got exposed. It needs great statesmanship to overcome the challenges,” Mr. Mahaldar said. The Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee here on Saturday decided that employees from the minority community “won’t attend the duty unless the government assures their protection”. “Despite inputs and incidents in the past targeting the minorities, the government didn’t provide any security to the community,” GPC general secretary Navtej Singh said. He asked the J&K administration to “assure the minority community that they are safe in the Valley”. “The majority should also come forward and condemn the attacks.” BJP leader and chairperson of the Waqf Development Committee Darakhshan Andrabi said, “We cannot allow radicals to repeat 1990 again. These target killings are shameful. More disgusting and criminal is the silence of so-called civil society and other responsible religious bodies of Kashmir. The government will eliminate each and every killer and destroy this hate module soon,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-sense-of-unease-grips-pandit-colonies/article36923576.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre restricts syringe exports for 3 months to aid COVID fight||The Government has imposed a three-month restriction on exports of three categories of syringes to ensure that there is enough to “improve domestic uptake and availability”. However complying with demands from local industry, it has allowed exports of classes of syringes not used for COVID vaccines. Most syringes used in COVID vaccination have a capacity of 0.3 ml though bigger ones are also used. Following a meeting on Saturday on the progress of COVID-19 vaccination, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told senior health officials in States, that the “immediate milestone” in India’s COVID-19 vaccination journey was completing administration of 100 crore doses. India has so far administered 94 crore vaccine doses. The three categories of syringes that will be subject to this “quantitative restriction” on exports are 0.5 ml/ 1ml AD (auto-disable) syringes, 0.5 ml/1 ml/2 ml/3 ml disposable syringes, 1ml/2 ml/3 ml RUP (re-use prevention) syringes. Covaxin supply At Saturday's meeting, Uttar Pradesh had pointed out the “comparatively limited supply of Covaxin” and its shorter span between the doses as a reason why vaccination wasn't proceeding as fast as it could, said a statement from the Press Information Bureau. Previous estimates in April by Bharat Biotech had claimed that production would scale to over six crore doses a month by September but actual supply is much lower. Chairman Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella had said in September that output would be scaled to 5.5 crore doses by October. For India to meet its goal to fully inoculate all adults by the year end, it needs to vaccinate over a crore every day but has consistently averaged a little less than 80 lakh a day since the 2.5 crore doses on September 17. Mr Mandaviya said more than 8 crore doses were available with States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-restricts-syringe-exports-for-3-months-to-aid-covid-fight/article36923582.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Faceless killers in the Valley||The killings of seven civilians in six days, including a well-known chemist, Makhan Lal Pandita, and a school principal, Supinder Kaur, have shaken the Kashmir Valley. A little-known militant outfit called the Resistance Front (TRF) has claimed responsibility for the killings. Security agencies warn that attacks could intensify it in the coming days. The outfit was born nine months after the Union government ended Jammu and Kashmir’s special constitutional status on August 5, 2019. The TRF's name first surfaced after a four-day gun battle was reported near the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara's Keran Sector, starting April 1, 2020. According to police records, five infiltrators from the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) surprised the security personnel by holding on to an inaccessible area of Keran for more than five days in well-accumulated snow. The “well-trained” and “motivated” militants were killed only after the Army’s elite troops launched a gun battle that lasted for days. Five soldiers, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), lost their lives. It was the newly-formed TRF's first attack in Kashmir. All the five slain militants remain unidentified till date. The nomenclature of the outfit was a departure from the past when militant groups’ names would have obvious Islamic references. “The name TRF was an attempt to secularise the idea of jihad to present the Kashmir insurgency as a political cause rather than a religious war as was manifested by the names such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM),” a senior police officer said. New tactics It was not just the nomenclature, the TRF’s operational style and recruiting were also different. Unlike Hizbul Mujahideen’s 'poster boy commander' Burhan Wani, who galvanised youth support for an armed insurgency only to be killed in a gunfight in 2016 in south Kashmir, the TRF is against uploading the pictures of its cadre online or revealing the command chain. The faceless and tech savvy organisation took to the social media to propagate its messages. The TRF used body cameras like the GoPro to shoot attacks on the CRPF and the Army in Kashmir, which they used to “motivate” their recruits, say officials. On November 26, 2020, TRF militants filmed an attack on the Army's 2 Rashtriya Rifles near Srinagar's Lawaypora area, in which two soldiers were shown being shot dead from a close range and weapons snatched on the Srinagar-Baramulla highway. The TRF also used Twitter handles to claim attacks and issue a chargesheet against those targeted. “To gain traction and attract youngsters, the TRF uses videos from live encounters to show off its deadly capability,” another counter-insurgency officer said. According to a police report, the TRF and the People's Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF), another militant group, are shadow outfits of the LeT and the JeM. However, the TRF claims to be working independently. The initial cadre of the TRF comprised locals trained in Pakistan. They travelled on passports and returned via Wagah, according to the report. Additionally, well-trained young militants are being sent to Kashmir via the LoC. The police officer said the TRF’s tactics marked a departure from the post-2016 militancy. “There are no 'fidayeen' (suicide) attacks; very little photographs of cadres are available and they choose soft targets through a broad base network of ground workers. A new breed of workers has been created who are not in the radar of the security forces, which makes tracking difficult and attacking easy.” Security agencies managed to dent the outfit’s ability to strike when they killed its ‘commander’ Abbas Sheikh, a resident of Kulgam, in an encounter in Srinagar in August. Security personnel wore sportswears and attacked his hideout, and shot him and his associate from a close range. Sheikh, a veteran from south Kashmir, had been active in militancy for more than a decade. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar described Sheikh’s killing as “a big success”, which was seen a blow to the TRF’s operational capability. However, the shadowy outfit seems to have reorganised itself within weeks, and started carrying out attacks in the Valley, directly targeting civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faceless-killers-in-the-valley/article36923597.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The chronicler of post-colonial life||Over the past few years, there have been shocking images of the human tragedy unfolding on European shores with scores of refugees trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea from Africa. There are frequent incidents of drowning, and Europe, barring Germany and Sweden, has appeared reluctant to open its doors to people fleeing their land for a variety of reasons from poverty to war. The Swedish Academy has awarded the 2021 Nobel Prize for Literature to an author who has chronicled the refugee experience and colonialism’s harsh impact in all his books. Abdulrazak Gurnah, one of the most eloquent African writers, won the top prize “for his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents.” In an interview to Adam Smith of the Nobel Prize Outreach, the 73-year-old Mr. Gurnah called out the “miserliness” of some in Europe to refugees, “as if there isn’t enough to go around”. Europeans streaming out into the world is nothing new, he pointed out, and stressed that people who are seeking a life in Europe do not come empty-handed. “A lot of them are talented, energetic people, who have something to give. You’re not just taking people in as if they’re poverty-stricken nothings, but, think of it as you’re first providing succour to people who are in need, but also people who can contribute something,” he said. Flight from homeland Mr. Gurnah was 18 when he had to leave the new republic of Tanzania which erupted in violence after gaining freedom from British colonial rule in the 1960s. The riots, targeted against the ethnic community Mr. Gurnah belonged to, disturbed the peace in a land known for its diversity and varied influences, British, African, Portuguese, Arab and Indian. He began writing when he was 21 years old in England, choosing English as his medium instead of Swahili. The “theme of the refugee’s disruption” runs through Mr. Gurnah’s 10 novels and short stories. His best-known novel, Paradise (1994), was short-listed for the Booker Prize and tells the story of 12-year-old Yusuf who is uprooted from his village and ‘pawned’ to a rich uncle to pay off his father’s debts. Mr. Gurnah’s historical fiction talks about communities at war, troubled trading routes and the difficulties of adolescence through Yusuf. The rites-of-passage story plays out in an Africa about to be taken over by colonialism and violence. His latest, Afterlives , long-listed for the Orwell Prize for Political Fiction 2021, traces the lives of Ilyas and Hamza in the backdrop of the Germans, British, French and the Belgians drawing their maps and dividing Africa. It’s the beginning of the 20th century and the conflict in Europe has a devastating impact on colonised east Africa. There’s an overriding sense of loss in all his books. In his 2017 novel, Gravel Heart , the protagonist recalls his father feeding him candyfloss. “That was the doorstep of the house I was born in… the house I abandoned because I was left with little choice. In later years, in my banishment, I pictured the house inch by inch. I don’t know if it was lying nostalgia or painful proper longing, but I paced its rooms and breathed its smells for years after I left.” Being a refugee His works are underpinned by a restlessness of a migrant, torn away from familiar surroundings, culture, traditions and language, and having to adapt to everything new. Perhaps the most autobiographical of his novels is Pilgrims Way (1988) in which the protagonist, Daud, faces the travails of being a refugee in an alien land. The story begins in a pub where Daud has bought himself a half-pint of “watery and sour” beer, as an old man grins at him. “Daud thought of the grin as the one that won an empire. It was the pick-pocket’s smile, given tongue in cheek and intended to distract and soothe the innocent prey while the thief helped himself to the valuables.” The Nobel Prize for Literature has had its share of controversies, but critics say the Swedish Academy, which has been accused of not looking beyond Europe, has got it right this time. The prize should help Mr. Gurnah and his poignant writing about Empire and migration acquire new readers, like Svetlana Alexievich’s Nobel did in 2015. Hopefully, his novels will also be finally translated into Swahili.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-chronicler-of-post-colonial-life/article36923601.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. clears appointments of CJs||The government cleared the transfer of Tripura High Court judge A.A. Kureshi to the Rajasthan High Court on Saturday. The transfer was one among the 13 transfers and appointments of Chief Justices to various High Courts. They are part of a major reshuffle orchestrated by the Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana. September had seen over 100 recommendations for appointments, transfers and re-transfers in various High Courts sent from the Collegium to the Government for approval. Chief Justice Ramana has emphasised that his Collegium is on the warpath to fill up the long-pending vacancies in the High Courts, and urged the Government to work together with the judiciary to decide the recommendations. The Government has been responding with a steady stream of approvals in the past few days. The clearance in the 13 High Courts was considered crucial as some of them have been making do with acting Chief Justices. Eight High Courts will get new Chief Justices. Justice Rajesh Bindal, acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, was appointed as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court. Justice Ranjit V. More has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court. Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, acting Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court, has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court. Justice Prakash Srivastava, a Madhya Pradesh High Court judge, has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court. Justice R.V. Malimath has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. He is presently the acting Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. Justice Aravind Kumar has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court. Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra will take over as the Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. He is presently serving as the acting Chief Justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court. Five Chief Justices, including Justice Kureshi, have been transferred. Justice Indrajit Mahanty, Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court, will take over as the Tripura Chief Justice. Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq of Madhya Pradesh has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. Chief Justice Biswanath Somadder of the Meghalaya High Court has been transferred as the Chief Justice of the Sikkim High Court. Justice A.K. Goswami has been appointed as the Chief Justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court. He is presently the Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-clears-appointments-of-cjs/article36923557.ece
10 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Sabarmati Ashram to get a Rs. 1,200 cr. revamp||The Gujarat government has embarked upon an ambitious project to redevelop Mahatma Gandhi’s Sabarmati Ashram and expand it from its present five acres to approximately 55 acres. The redevelopment will involve restoring all heritage buildings that were built during the Mahatma’s time in 1917, relocating families that live there and bringing to life Gandhiji’s philosophy and message for those visiting the Ashram. The project, being monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, includes plans to spend Rs. 1,200 crore to turn the Sabarmati Ashram into a world-class memorial with facilities and amenities to allow all Ashram visitors to have a “truly educational and immersive experience with full measure of the meaning and significance of Mahatma Gandhi’s life, work, philosophy, and message to the world.” The State government has emphatically held that the redevelopment project, also known as the Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project, will be done in a manner that is respectful of the original ashram’s ethos as it will retain the values that Gandhiji preached — austerity, simplicity, and authenticity. “It is Prime Minister Sir’s commitment to undertake the redevelopment of Mahatma Gandhi’s Ashram. In the past, many attempts were made but somehow, no progress was made earlier,” said K. Kailashnathan, Prime Minister Modi’s most trusted bureaucrat in Gujarat, who is personally handling the Ashram redevelopment project. “Since most of the original buildings lie outside today’s ashram, visitors get an incomplete sense of how the original Ashram functioned and how it embodied Gandhiji’s philosophy. Many of the original buildings are also in disrepair. To add to this, the atmosphere of the ashram is also rudely disrupted by noise of traffic, and it is often crowded on account of the continually increasing number of visitors,” stated a presentation prepared by the authorities. The revamp project has been conceptualised by leading architect Bimal Patel, who is also involved in the revamping of the Central Vista project in the national capital. As per the details, the original Ashram was approximately 120 acres when it was first established in 1917. During Mahatma’s lifetime in the Ashram from 1917 to 1930, there were 63 buildings built within the Ashram’s area. Today, only 43 of the original buildings remain. Of the around 250 families who currently reside in the Ashram area for historical reasons, 54 have accepted first instalment and 36 families have accepted the second instalment of compensation offered by the government to move. The rest are still considering their options. The revamp has, however, triggered controversy and outrage among a section of Gandhians, activists and scholars. At least 130 personalities from various walks of life have opposed the plan. In a joint statement, they criticised the Centre and the State governments for embarking upon the redevelopment plans, and said the proposed project will severely compromise the simplicity and sanctity of the present-day Ashram. The proposed memorial is more likely to be called at best a ‘Gandhi Theme Park’ and at worst, the Mahatma’s ‘second assassination’, they said. In August of this year, the trustees of Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT) in a statement said they shared many of the concerns expressed by several citizens regarding the future of Sabarmati Ashram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarmati-ashram-to-get-a-rs-1200-cr-revamp/article36923662.ece
10 October 2021||KOLKATA,||A tussle between caution and celebration||The City of Joy is witnessing a tussle between celebration and caution as the curtain lifts on Durga Puja — a festival it awaits all year and which sees erection of pandals in almost its every nook and cranny — under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic. While there is enthusiasm among people, considering a city accustomed to celebrating its numerous festivals has been forced to show restraint for far too long now, there is also fear and, like last year, there are restrictions in place. No-entry zones Since pandals have once again been declared as no-entry zones for the public, most of them have been designed in a way that visitors can have a view of the idols from the road, without getting into an enclosure and thus forming a crowd. And the brave ones have already begun pandal-hopping. “Puja this year looks low-key. There appears to be a definite budget cut as many neighbourhoods were not aglow with lights. Most pandals were cordoned off, people were indeed watching from a distance,” said Suparna Sengupta, a teacher from Bangalore who is visiting her parents and who on Friday evening visited some of the most popular pandals in south Kolkata, such as Ekdalia Evergreen and Ballygunge Cultural Association. “Some pandals are still to be finished. It seems not only the pandemic but even the successive cyclones and incessant unseasonal rains have impacted the celebrations. Kolkata seemed to be a city on tenterhooks — expectant yet cautious.” The apprehension is palpable, according to Jai Ranjan Ram, one of Kolkata’s top psychiatrists. He observed that the unadulterated joy that is felt during Durga Puja is absent. “There is sadness in the air about lost lives and financial hardships, and there is an unspoken fear about a third wave,” Dr. Ram said. “There is also a very distinct realisation that life is not the same with COVID-19 hovering over our lives. That feeling is having a psychological toll, leading to depression and anxiety.” In the face of fear, people are celebrating in the little ways they can. Several pandals continue to have a theme, and this year they didn’t have to think very hard. For some, COVID-19 itself is a theme, for some others, it is India’s improved performance in the Olympics. What’s been impacted most is eating out: pre-pandemic, all pandals served lunch to local residents (and thus providing an opportunity for people in the neighbourhood to socialise) while most popular pandals had food stalls for the public. But doctors feel one shouldn’t feel too sad about these things. “We will have many Pujas in our lifetime. To enjoy those, we need to remain safe now. In West Bengal, the number of COVID-19 cases has not stagnated and, if anything, is slightly on the rise,” said Dr. Koushik Lahiri, a founding member of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum. Taking it in the stride Most people have taken the restrictions and the consequent scaled-down celebrations in their stride. Salt Lake City-resident and business-owner Anuradha Mitra has bought herself a few sarees, but the preference this time, she said, was comfort over style, considering one was going to be mostly homebound. “Puja this time is more like changing the décor around the house and indulging in home-cooked Bengali fare because there won’t be community lunches,” Ms. Mitra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-tussle-between-caution-and-celebration/article36923592.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There can be no Opposition formation without Congress at the helm’||Independent legislator from Gujarat Jignesh Mevani speaks about the reasons for aligning with the Congress, the Opposition makeup for the 2024 Lok Sabha election and the political situation in Gujarat:  Why the Congress? As I pointed out in the press conference with Kanhaiya [Kumar], in this era of unprecedented crisis, when destruction of democracy is at work, the fascist forces have taken over all the organs of the state, when they have become desperate to replace the Constitution with Manusmriti , when they have damaged and distorted all our democratic institutions, in this situation, if you are not able to dislodge the BJP from power, then we are gone as a nation. And to save our nation, Constitution, our social fabric, to save our idea of India, we need a big platform and the Congress being the ‘Grand Old Party’ is probably the only biggest platform available. I don’t want to claim that other components don’t have a role to play. I believe academicians, activists, journalists, scholars... all of us have a role. But there can’t be a formation of an Opposition without the Congress being at the helm of it. Importantly, Rahul Gandhi gives us the confidence that he will never compromise with the RSS and the BJP. In 2017 too, you were in talks with the Congress but didn’t join. What has changed since then? I just wanted to carry on my journey as an activist-cum-politician, as an Independent MLA. You may work as a freelance journalist for five years and then you may feel the need to work in a mainstream group. Even if I had won as an Independent legislator for the second time, I would pretty much repeat what I have already achieved. But if I want to expand, to reach out to more people… then the Congress is the best platform.  The Congress is at its lowest ebb. There has been a mass exodus of leaders from the party because of successive electoral defeats. Why now? I don’t care about what is happening with the party, I care about what is happening in the country. I have two options in front of me, either I can be cynical about those who are leaving the Congress or I can be optimistic and be hopeful about those planning to join the party. I would rather choose the second option. Hardik Patel, Kanhaiya Kumar, Revanth Reddy have joined and more are coming.  Since you have worked for long as an Independent legislator and an activist, will you be able to work within the push and pull of a behemoth party like the Congress? Only time can answer this question. But one thing I can say for sure is that I am a fighter, there will be struggle, there will be ups and downs but finally I shall settle down. How do you counter the narrative that ultimately boils down to Hindu-Muslim binary? The BJP tries to reduce everything down to Hindu-Muslim binary, but it doesn’t work always. The 2017 Gujarat Assembly election and the 2020 Bihar election are examples. In both these polls, unemployment became a big issue. That is what we will be focussing on as a team. Inflation, unemployment and mismanagement of COVID-19 will be key issues on which we will counter the BJP. The BJP did an extensive Cabinet reshuffle in Gujarat. Wouldn’t this help them in removing the anti-incumbency factor?  The reshuffle was clearly because the RSS or an independent agency that they roped in conveyed to them the truth that in the next Assembly poll they will not cross 55-65 seats. The reshuffle is a reaction to this feedback. But those who lost their loved ones will not forget what they went through. Those who ran from pillar to post looking for hospital beds, Remdesivir injections, oxygen cylinders and so on... can never forgive the BJP. After the West Bengal Assembly election, there has emerged a race for the lead Opposition role. Doesn’t this disarray in the Opposition suit the BJP? In 2024, there can be no Opposition without the Congress being at the centre of it. At the same time, there has to be better appreciation of other components of the Opposition. All the anti-BJP forces must come together beyond their personal ambition and interests. This unity should not just be limited to seat-sharing arrangement. They must be seen fighting together on the issues that matter to the public. We, as forces of the Opposition, are not willing to get rid of our pettiness.  What is your reply to this regular question: if not Modi, then who?  If not Modi, then me! I am educated, honest and hard-working. But jokes apart, the answer to the question ‘if not Modi, then who?’ is we, the people.  The answer to the question ‘if not Modi, then who?’ is we, the people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-can-be-no-opposition-without-congress-being-at-the-centre-of-it/article36923578.ece
10 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SKM plans ‘Shaheed Kisan Diwas’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the protests against the Centre’s agriculture laws, said it would observe October 12 as “Shaheed Kisan Diwas (Martyr Farmers’ Day)”. “We will observe October 12 as ‘Shaheed Kisan Diwas’ and we have appealed to the farmers all over the country to join the ‘ antim ardas ’ (final rites) of the farmers, who died in Lakhimpur Kheri,” said Joginder Singh, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the SKM constituents. Mr. Singh said Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra should be immediately dismissed from the Cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, hatching conspiracy and murder. His son Ashish Mishra, who is accused of driving one of the cars, and his associates should be immediately arrested, he added. Protest planned SKM’s senior leader Yogendra Yadav said, “If our demands are not accepted by October 11, then the SKM will launch a nationwide protest programme. After the antim ardas on October 12, a ‘Shaheed Kisan Yatra’ will be taken out from Lakhimpur Kheri by taking the asthi (ashes) of martyr farmers to each district of Uttar Pradesh and each State of the country. On Dasara on October 15, the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and that of local BJP leaders will be burnt. A ‘rail roko’ programme will be held across the country on October 18. Besides, on October 26, a ‘Mahapanchayat’ will be organised in Lucknow to protest against the Lakhimpur incident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-plans-shaheed-kisan-diwas/article36923570.ece
10 October 2021||Karnal,||Boom! A spraying solution is here to stem stubble burning in Haryana fields||There’s a different sort of machine at work in Bhupinder Singh’s 30-acre farm off the Delhi-Karnal highway. The boom sprayer, as it’s called, looks like a hybrid between a tractor and an autobot from the Transformers ; its definitive features are two 20 ft booms that spread out like outstretched wings. On them are equally spaced nozzles that spray bio-decomposers on the freshly harvested rice field. The decomposers are a powder mixed in water meant to accelerate the process of turning rice stubble into compost. Untreated rice straw takes 4-8 weeks to disintegrate, which is too long for the average farmer to wait to be able to sow the winter wheat crop. The other option is to employ labour, who will cut the stalk and pile it into bundles, but that’s expensive and unaffordable for more than 95% of the farmers. “Which is why the simplest solution is a Rs. 1 matchbox and Rs. 100 worth of diesel,” Mr. Singh said with a smile but also claimed he’s never burnt his fields in the last five years. Setting a harvested field alight is an age-old practice but in recent years it has been linked to worsening air pollution in the Delhi National Capital Region. Open to other solutions With pressure from the Centre, States such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been cajoling, threatening and fining farmers in recent years. While the success of these efforts has been limited, many farmers, while less concerned about the environmental effects of the practice on urban Delhi, are open to trying other solutions. Which is where the less-than two year old, Bengaluru-based agritech firm, nurture.farm, comes in with its boom sprayer. In an ambitious exercise, 700 of these machines will be at work across 5 lakh acres in Punjab and Haryana, spraying a bio-decomposer called ‘PUSA spray’. A bio-enzyme developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, Delhi, this was initially formulated as a capsule. But, Pranav Tiwari, chief technology officer of nurture.farm, said it emerged that a capsule is not the best way to deploy the product in the fields. Hence his company licensed the technology and made it into a powder that can be mixed with water, which is loaded into a tank in the boom sprayer. After spraying, the soil needs to be turned over and irrigated. When done correctly — spraying, turning the soil over and irrigating it for four days — the straw can be disintegrated in eight days, said Mr. Tiwari. With the boom sprayer, he added, an acre can be be sprayed in 7 minutes whereas manually it takes half a day. Mr. Singh has partitioned his 30 acres into small parcels. A few acres have already been harvested and sprayed, with some sprouting cauliflower as well as shoots of mustard. But the bulk of his farm — 28 acres — is yet to be harvested. Mr. Singh said he expects to begin sowing wheat within 20 days. That means all the rice must be harvested and the stalks sprayed, decomposed and the soil readied for wheat within that time. Proof of the practice Mr. Singh said he’s optimistic of keeping the schedule but says the true test will be the yield of the wheat next year. The promise of the PUSA spray is that because it employs natural enzymes, it will improve soil fertility and because there will be no burning, carbon as well as essential soil-micronutrients will be retained. Nurture.farm is a subsidiary of the Mumbai-based agrochemicals company UPL, fomerly known as United Phosphorous Limited. Its approach towards farming is much like Uber’s towards cars — making it convenient for a farmer to hire a spraying service via an app. There is also a team of 600 ‘Kisan-mitra’, many of them young, college girls, who liaise with the farmers and convince them to use the app. The plan, said Mr. Tiwari, is that over time farmers will see the value in spraying based on the improved yields.  (The reporter was part of a media contingent taken on tour by nurture.farm)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boom-a-spraying-solution-is-here-to-stem-stubble-burning-in-haryana-fields/article36923586.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||New parliamentary panels named after a month’s delay||After a delay of nearly a month, Parliamentary Standing Committees were notified on Saturday. Former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar Sushil Modi, who was widely expected to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, is now the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Law and Justice. The post fell vacant after Bhupender Yadav’s elevation to the Modi Cabinet. Notwithstanding a raft of complaints against him from the BJP leaders, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor survived as the Chairperson Of The Standing Committee of Information and Technology. At a meeting held on July 27, on a day that the panel was to discuss the Pegasus cyberattack, the BJP MPs staged a walkout. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, who is a member, shot off multiple letters to Speaker Om Birla accusing Mr. Tharoor of using the committee to take forward the Congress party’s own agenda. The government though has little say. It is up to the parties who they want to nominate for the Chairperson’s post. The Government could, however, allot different committees to the Opposition parties. As per sources, at least 50 Rajya Sabha MPs have been reassigned to different committees, 28 of these for their poor attendance in the meetings of committees held over the last year. In a response to The Hindu ’s report on the delay in the committee formation, the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs had said the process took time because of deliberations on “whether to nominate MPs who have not attended even one meeting of the committees and also whether they should be renominated to the same committees”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-parliamentary-panels-are-out-after-a-months-delay/article36923590.ece
10 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Will write to EC demanding ban on poll surveys: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Saturday said she would write to the Election Commission seeking ban on all pre-poll surveys by agencies and media six months before any elections so that the polls are not impacted and the business of these agencies under the garb of surveys is shut. At a public meeting on the death anniversary of Kanshi Ram, Ms. Mayawati said as elections approach the “casteist media” or “media sponsored against the BSP” would deliberately show the BSP to be in a weak condition to hurt the party till voting or declaration of polls. “The party people should not be misled by this in any manner,” she said. Ms. Mayawati give the example of the recent polls in Bengal where the TMC had returned to power. She said while the survey agencies had shown Mamta Banerjee to be trailing, the results proved to be opposite. Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-write-to-ec-demanding-ban-on-poll-surveys-mayawati/article36923561.ece
10 October 2021||Kolkata,||Creative economy of Durga Puja in West Bengal pegged at Rs. 32,000 crore||The total economic worth of the creative activities involved in Durga Puja festival is about Rs. 32,377 crore and the festival contributes 2.58% of West Bengal’s GDP, reveals a study carried out by the British Council. The first of its kind detailed study of different aspects of the Durga Puja festival commissioned by the West Bengal Government’s tourism department looks at ten creative industries related to the pujas such as installation, idol making, lighting and illumination, retail, sponsorship, advertisement and food and beverages. The project was done between September 2019 and January 2020, with fieldwork completed in an intense three-week period around the time of the festival, and the report recently released. The report ‘Mapping the Creative Economy around Durga Puja 2019’ points out that the economic value of the art and decoration segment was Rs. 860 crore, and Kolkata accounted for 15% share of the pandal-making industry in West Bengal. With regard to idol making, the creative economy was estimated to be about Rs. 260 to Rs. 280 crore, where Kolkata alone accounted for about Rs. 120 crore. Around 40% of idol-making studios in Kumartuli, the traditional potters’ locality in northern Kolkata, are older than 60 years, the report pointed out. Retail sector The highest contribution to the creative economy was the retail sector, which contributed to Rs. 27,364 crore, registering a 100% spike in sale during the festive season when discounts and offers are given. Other sectors, such as literature and publishing, contributed about Rs. 260-270 crore while the film and entertainment sector contributed Rs. 53.2 crore. Another sector that made a significant contribution is the food and beverage sector, which contributed a whopping Rs. 2,854 crore. Consumer spends in this sector during the festive month is believed to be 30% higher than that of the previous month. “This complex research is, as far as we know, the first of its kind in India done on this scale and combines both quantitative and qualitative analyses of the open access ecosystem that feeds the festival economy,” Barbara Wickham, director of the British Council in India, said in the report. Debanjan Chakrabarti, director, East and Northeast India, British Council, told The Hindu said the methodology used is not only transparent but also replicable in other parts of India. The report also pointed out a 120% spike in the number of bus passengers during the festival, and a 11% spike in air and rail traffic. Livelihood generator Nandini Chakravorty, Principal Secretary, Tourism, Government of West Bengal, said that the livelihood generation based on just one festival in a year is noteworthy. “The festival is the sole source of earnings across the year for many families,” Ms. Chakravorty added. While the report reflects pre-COVID figures, experts said it gives a baseline of the creative economy in the pre-pandemic situation and if studies are done using the same methodology, the impact of the pandemic and the post-pandemic situation could be understood better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/creative-economy-of-durga-puja-in-west-bengal-pegged-at-rs-32000-crore/article36923588.ece
10 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal getting less snow: study||The hill State of Himachal Pradesh has been gradually witnessing less snow in the past decade and the area under snow is also decreasing. The trend triggered by climate change has alarmed environmentalists, considering the importance of seasonal snow cover as a major input in controlling the hydrology of the river basins in the ecologically fragile State. A recent study, conducted jointly by the State Centre on Climate Change and the Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad, using Advanced Wide Field Sensor (AWiFS) satellite data has revealed that all major river basins, including the Satluj, Ravi, Chenab and Beas, have witnessed an overall decrease of 18.5% in area under snow in 2020-21 winters in comparison to 2019-20. S.S. Randhawa, a co-author of the study, told The Hindu , “Based on the average snowfall data available between 2010-2014, we started to assess the spatial extent of seasonal snow cover in 2015-16. Since then, every year, we have been analysing the snowfall trend, which shows that by and large there has been a negative [reducing] trend in the past decade, but for one odd year. The results also show that there is a gradual shift in the snowfall occurrence pattern as well. The snowfall in peak winter is reducing slightly and, in fact, is shifting towards the late winter months or even the early summer months.” Soumya Dutta, co-convener of the South Asian People’s Action on Climate Crisis, attributed the phenomenon to the rising temperatures. “The climate pattern at the global level is changing. Rapid deforestation, extensive construction and unregulated activities are the contributing factors. These factors may be seen as small at the local level but are certainly adding up,” said Mr. Dutta. The study points out that there has been an overall decrease in the area under snow in 2020-21 winter (October to May) in key river basins. The decrease in the Chenab basin was 9% and 19% in the Beas basin. The Ravi and Satluj basins saw 23% less snow area in comparison to 2019-20. The overall decrease in the area under snow has been recorded at about 18.5% in 2020-21 winters against 2019-20, it said. Notably, about one-third of the geographical area remains under thick snow cover during the winter season. Most of the major rivers like Chenab, Beas, Parvati, Baspa, Spiti, Ravi, Satluj and their perennial tributaries originating from the Himalayas depend upon the seasonal snow cover for their discharge dependability. The snow cover also helps in controlling the accumulation and ablations patterns of the glaciated regions. Considering the importance of seasonal snow cover as a major input in controlling the hydrology of the basins, seasonal snow cover assessment in terms of its spatial distribution is being carried out in different river basins during the winter season. Director of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Shimla, Surinder Pal also said, “The average precipitation tendency has been decreasing, especially the monsoon rains. Rains and snowfall on an average have seen a decreasing trend in the past 10 years. The gradual rise in temperature could be a reason behind this. Climate change is a worldwide phenomenon,” he told The Hindu . Environmentalists have expressed concern over the reducing precipitation trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-getting-less-snow-study/article36923685.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||China there to stay, says Army chief on Ladakh||“So, it means that they (China) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said. The 13th round of Corps Commander talks will start at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday at Moldo on the Chinese side, opposite Chushul, a defence official said. Agreement The focus of the talks will be on an agreement for the next phase of disengagement from Hot Springs and the overall de-escalation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Officials said the agreement for disengagement at Hot Springs was within reach as partial disengagement had already been undertaken last year and there were a few points to be resolved. This leaves the other friction areas of Depsang and Demchok which are going be tricky. The two sides have so far undertaken disengagement from the Pangong Tso and Gogra areas. Further, there is the issue of overall de-escalation along the LAC which is also going to be tough given the huge build-up by China that is matched by India as well as working out new protocols for patrolling. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) still has more than 50,000 troops deployed along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, according to officials. Gen. Naravane said it was difficult to understand why China sort of opened one more front (in Ladakh) while it has problems on its other borders. “But whatever it might have been, I do not think they have been able to achieve any of those because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces,” he added. Arunachal stand-off Citing Chinese military sources, State-run newspaper China Daily described reports of Chinese soldiers being detained by Indian soldiers after a face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang Sector of Arunachal Pradesh as “purely fabricated and hyped by Indian media” and a “smear campaign” by the Indian side. The incident occurred last week as the two patrol teams came face to face and clashed following which some Chinese soldiers were detained for a few hours and released after the issue was resolved by the local commanders. According to a military source cited by China Daily , the Chinese border troops conducted a routine patrol on September 28 in the Dongzhang area on the “Chinese side of the Sino-Indian border and encountered unreasonable obstruction from the Indian military”. “The Chinese officers and soldiers took countermeasures resolutely and returned after the patrol mission was completed,” the newspaper quoted the source as having said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-there-to-stay-says-army-chief-on-ladakh/article36923552.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Malabar exercise phase-II to be held next week||The Quadrilateral group comprising India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. is scheduled to hold phase-II of the Malabar naval exercise next week, according to official sources. This is the first military engagement among the Quad partner countries since Australia, the U.S. and the U.K. unveiled the AUKUS initiative to deepen cooperation on a range of “emerging security and defence capabilities” which includes equipping Australian with at least eight nuclear powered submarines (SSN). The exercise will be held over three days beginning October 12 in the Bay of Bengal, an official source said. Phase-I of Malabar, also its 25th edition, was hosted by the U.S. and held off Guam from August 26-29. The Japan Maritime Self Defence Force (JMSDF) vessels, which arrived in India for the bilateral exercise JIMEX, will participate in Phase-II. These include Izumo class helicopter carrier Kaga and guided missile destroyer Murasame along with their integral SH60K helicopters. The Malabar exercise commenced in 1992 as an India-U.S. exercise. In 2015, Japan joined as a permanent member and Australia was included in the 2020 edition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malabar-exercise-phase-ii-to-be-held-next-week/article36923554.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||M. Ravichandran to be Earth Sciences Secretary||The government has appointed M. Ravichandran as Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. He is currently Director, National Centre for Ocean and Polar Research, Goa and has been in charge of coordinating several of India’s scientific missions to Antarctica and the Arctic.  The Hindu has viewed a note from the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet confirming this. A key thrust of the government is its ‘Deep Ocean Mission.’ This June, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved Rs. 4,077 crore for five years for the mission to “explore” the deep ocean for resources and develop deep sea technologies for sustainable use of ocean resources. Among the key components of the Deep Ocean Mission is developing a manned submersible to carry three people to a depth of 6,000 metres with scientific sensors and tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/m-ravichandran-to-be-earth-sciences-secretary/article36923555.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Global pact made on minimum corporate tax||U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen hailed it as a victory for American families as well as international business. “We’ve turned tireless negotiations into decades of increased prosperity — for both America and the world. Today’s agreement represents a once-in-a-generation accomplishment for economic diplomacy,” Ms Yellen said in a statement. The OECD said the minimum rate would see countries collect around $150 billion in new revenues annually while taxing rights on more than $125 billion of profit would be shifted to countries where big multinationals earn their income. Ireland, Estonia and Hungary, all low tax countries, dropped their objections this week as a compromise emerged on a deduction from the minimum rate for multinationals with real physical business activities abroad. But some developing countries seeking a higher minimum tax rate say their interests have been sidelined to accommodate the interests of richer countries like Ireland, which had refused to sign a deal with a minimum tax rate higher than 15%. Argentine Economy Minister Martin Guzman said on Thursday that proposals on the table forced developing countries to chose between “something bad and something worse”. While Kenya, Nigeria and Sri Lanka did not back a previous version of the deal, Pakistan’s abstention came as a surprise, one official briefed on the talks said. India also had qualms up to the last minute, but ultimately backed the deal, they added. There was also dissatisfaction among some campaign groups such as Oxfam which said the deal would not end tax havens. “The tax devil is in the details, including a complex web of exemptions,” Oxfam tax policy lead Susana Ruiz said. “At the last minute a colossal 10-year grace period was slapped onto the global corporate tax of 15%, and additional loopholes leave it with practically no teeth,” Ms, Ruiz added in a statement. The OECD said the deal would next go to the Group of 20 economic powers to formally endorse at a finance ministers’ meeting in Washington on Oct. 13 and then on to a G20 leaders summit at the end of the month in Rome for final approval. There remains some question about the U.S. position, which depends in part on domestic tax reform negotiations in Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-pact-made-on-minimum-corporate-tax/article36923567.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Himachal Pradesh getting less snow: study||The results also show that there is a gradual shift in the snowfall occurrence pattern as well. The snowfall in peak winter is reducing slightly and, in fact, is shifting towards the late winter months or even the early summer months.” Soumya Dutta, co-convener of the South Asian People’s Action on Climate Crisis, attributed the phenomenon to the rising temperatures. “The climate pattern at the global level is changing. Rapid deforestation, extensive construction and unregulated activities are the contributing factors. These factors may be seen as small at the local level but are certainly adding up,” said Mr. Dutta. The study points out that there has been an overall decrease in the area under snow in 2020-21 winter (October to May) in key river basins. The decrease in the Chenab basin was 9% and 19% in the Beas basin. The Ravi and Satluj basins saw 23% less snow area in comparison to 2019-20. The overall decrease in the area under snow has been recorded at about 18.5% in 2020-21 winters against 2019-20, it said. Notably, about one-third of the geographical area remains under thick snow cover during the winter season. Most of the major rivers like Chenab, Beas, Parvati, Baspa, Spiti, Ravi, Satluj and their perennial tributaries originating from the Himalayas depend upon the seasonal snow cover for their discharge dependability. The snow cover also helps in controlling the accumulation and ablations patterns of the glaciated regions. Considering the importance of seasonal snow cover as a major input in controlling the hydrology of the basins, seasonal snow cover assessment in terms of its spatial distribution is being carried out in different river basins during the winter season. Director of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Shimla, Surinder Pal also said, “The average precipitation tendency has been decreasing, especially the monsoon rains. Rains and snowfall on an average have seen a decreasing trend in the past 10 years. The gradual rise in temperature could be a reason behind this. Climate change is a worldwide phenomenon,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-pradesh-getting-less-snow-study/article36923568.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||A-G rejects plea for notice of contempt to Pegasus maker||Attorney-General of India K.K. Venugopal has refused consent to a request made by Tamil Nadu parliamentarian Thol. Thirumavalavan to permit him to initiate contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court against the controversial Pegasus software creator, NSO Group, the Israel-based company’s directors, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, and his predecessor Rajiv Gauba. The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader had, in his letter to Mr. Venugopal, said that the company and the top Indian bureaucrats should face contempt proceedings in the background of reports that a Supreme Court judge, now retired, and top court officials were placed under surveillance through the Pegasus software. But the top law officer refused to agree, saying that the Pegasus snooping controversy was already before the top court. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, is hearing a batch of petitions, including one by senior journalist N. Ram, for an independent and high-level probe into reports that the Centre mounted “military-grade surveillance” using Pegasus on citizens, including Ministers, parliamentarians, activists, journalists and dissenters. “The question whether the Government of India has used Pegasus software and if so against whom is a matter which is being debated and is currently sub judice before the Supreme Court.. In the absence of such determination having been made, it would be inappropriate for me to grant consent for the initiation of proceedings for criminal contempt under Section 15 of the Contempt of Court Act of 1971… I accordingly decline to grant consent under Section 25 of the Act,” Mr. Venugopal replied to the parliamentarian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-rejects-plea-for-notice-of-contempt-to-pegasus-maker/article36923573.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘What is the need of trial if you are putting people in jail for years?’||The Supreme Court has questioned the compulsion to put people in jail for years on end in drugs cases even as their trial takes forever to finish. A Bench, led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, granted bail to a man caught in a room with 35 kg ganja by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The court said the man has been in jail for years and “there is no likelihood of completion of trial in the near future”. “What is the need of trial if you are putting people in jail for years?” Chief Justice Ramana asked during the recent hearing. The Bench had just learnt that the accused had already spent four years in jail as an undertrial. He has been in custody since October 16, 2017. The Bench noted that the man was a senior citizen of 66 years and he cannot spend time behind bars waiting for justice to arrive with the end of his trial. “How many years can he be kept in jail without trial?” the CJI asked the government side. When the government lawyer said five years, the CJI shot back, “Why five? Keep him for 10... Then there is no need for a trial.” The Bench said it was even doubtful, at this pace, whether the man would even survive the trial if he continued in jail. “He is already 66 years, by the time you complete your trial, he will not be there,” the CJI said. The accused had appealed to the Supreme Court after the Calcutta High Court had refused to grant him bail last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-is-the-need-of-trial-if-you-are-putting-people-in-jail-for-years/article36923574.ece
10 October 2021||Jaipur,||Dalit youth beaten to death||A Dalit youth was allegedly beaten to death by a group of persons at Prempura village in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district and the body was dumped outside his house. A love affair reportedly led to the crime, after which the youth’s relatives and the local Dalit community staged demonstrations for two days and refused to send the body for post-mortem. The police registered a case against 11 persons in connection with the incident after its video went viral on social media, and arrested three of the accused on Saturday. Eight others were stated to be absconding. The family members accepted the body after the police action and agreed to cremate it. The assailants had forcibly taken the youth, Jagdish, to an agricultural field on Thursday and thrashed him with sticks. One of the accused allegedly placed his knee on Jagdish’s neck and others continued to beat him till he lost consciousness. The family members, who found the body outside their house, came to know of the crime from the video circulated on social media. The Opposition BJP has demanded an immediate arrest of all the accused, while claiming that the crimes against Dalits had increased by 21% in the Congress regime. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the national leadership of Congress, busy with “political tourism” in other States, should pay attention to Rajasthan whose image had taken a beating after the Hanumangarh incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-youth-beaten-to-death/article36923558.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||Congress to observe Maun Vrat||Protesting against the inaction of the BJP Governments at the Centre and the State in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, where four farmers were mowed down by a car in the cavalcade of Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, the Congress will be holding “ maun vrat ” or vow of silence, in front of the Governor’s House and the Central Government offices in the capitals of every State. The protest is to mirror the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on the incident, said Congress leaders. Party general secretary organisation K.C. Venugopal directed the State units to organise the event in a letter. He said, “Farmers, who were eyewitnesses, have openly said they were run over by a vehicle being driven by the son of the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. Despite all-round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the Minister so far. It is shameful that the Prime Minister and the Home Minister, whom the Minister directly reports to, have not uttered a word against this cold-blooded murder.” The party has also asked for immediate sacking of Mr. Mishra to ensure an unbiased probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-observe-maun-vrat/article36923564.ece
10 October 2021||banihal/Jammu,||50 rural local body members quit in J&K||More than 50 sarpanches and panches have resigned en masse in two blocks of Ramban district in Jammu and Kashmir over various issues, officials said on Saturday. They have resigned alleging lack of promised empowerment, unnecessary interference and their side-lining by the administration during the ongoing public outreach programme of the Central Ministers, officials said. The Peoples Democratic Party took a pot-shot at the BJP government, saying the “cosmetic normalcy and pomp and show being projected (in the Union Territory) stands punctured”. Officials, however, said the district panchayat officer Ashok Singh held a meeting with the representatives of the agitated members and requested them to withdraw resignation, seeking to assure them that their grievances would be addressed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50-rural-local-body-members-quit-in-jk/article36923571.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA conducts searches in heroin case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday conducted searches at multiple locations in connection with the 3,000 kg heroin seizure at Mundra Port in Gujarat last month. The searches were carried out on the premises of the accused persons and suspects in Chennai, Coimbatore and Vijayawada, who were involved in the smuggling of the contraband under the guise of importing semi-processed talc stones from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas Port in Iran. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized the consignment and arrested 10 persons, including six Afghan nationals and a Uzbek national, during its probe into the international drug trafficking racket. The Ministry of Home Affairs later transferred the case to the NIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-conducts-searches-in-heroin-case/article36923572.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 143 crore seized from pharma group||The Income-Tax Department searches on a major Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical group has lead to the seizure of about Rs. 143 crore in cash and detection of unaccounted income to the tune of Rs. 550 crore. The agency started the search and seizure operations on October 6 and about 50 locations across six States were covered. “This pharmaceutical group is engaged in the business of manufacturing of intermediates, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and formulations. Majority of the products are exported to foreign countries i.e. U.S., Europe, Dubai and some African countries,” the Department said. During the searches, the agency identified the hideouts where a second set of books-of-accounts and cash had been stored. Evidence in the form of digital media, pen drives and documents were seized. Bogus purchases The agency detected several issues related to discrepancies in the purchases made from bogus and non-existent entities, and artificial inflation of certain heads of expenditure. “Further, evidence of on-money payment for purchase of lands was also found,” the agency said, adding that personal expenses were included in the company’s books. Land was purchased by the related parties below the government registration value. According to the I-T Department, several bank lockers were located during the searches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-143-crore-seized-from-pharma-group/article36923579.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maritime activity is vital, says Rajnath||Stating that unhindered maritime activity is a necessity to move ahead on the path of rapid development, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday that India is a rising maritime power and its prosperity is largely dependent on the sea. “India's maritime zones must be safe, secure and pollution free. This will fulfil our security needs and ensure environmental health and economic development,” Mr. Singh said after conferring gallantry and meritorious service medals on Coast Guard personnel at an investiture ceremony. A total of 21 awardswere presented. In the last one year, Cost Guard carried out 70 medical evacuations, conducted 555 search and rescue operations and saved the lives of more than 1,090 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maritime-activity-is-vital-says-rajnath/article36923580.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Drugs shortage in Karnataka govt. hospitals||Government hospitals in Karnataka are now facing an acute shortage of basic drugs including paracetamol, antibiotics and anti-histamine and are being forced to write prescriptions for patients to buy the same from outside. Sources said there has been an irregular/short supply of basic drugs in all hospitals run by the State Health Department and hospital authorities are unable to get supplies even after four months of indenting. Hospital authorities said except intravenous fluids, all essential medical supplies have been in short supply since May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drugs-shortage-in-karnataka-govt-hospitals/article36923876.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||CJI Ramana’s intervention draws praise||Former Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave praised Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana for ‘leading’ the Supreme Court “from the front” and for his “remarkable intervention” in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. The CJI-led bench, which took suo motu cognisance of the incident, did not mince words and expressed dissatisfaction over the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh Government. Mr. Dave, who has been critical of some predecessors of the incumbent CJI, said CJI Ramana had acted extremely responsibly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-ramanas-intervention-draws-praise/article36924183.ece
10 October 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Father, son electrocuted||A man and his son were electrocuted after they came in contact with a snapped power cable at Keezha Palur near here on Friday night. According to police sources, Shankar, 19, son of Muthuswamy, was working in a grocery shop and was returning home at night. Near his house, he stepped on a live wire and suffered a shock. On hearing his cries, his father rushed to save him. But he too was electrocuted. The two were rushed to the Government Hospital in Ariyalur where they were declared brought dead. The cable is suspected to have snapped due to rain and gale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-son-electrocuted/article36923912.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,344 people test positive in T.N.||Chennai, along with 28 other districts, recorded no death due to COVID-19 on Saturday. Fourteen persons succumbed to the infection across the State. Fresh cases continued to gradually dip, as 1,344 people tested positive. The State’s positivity rate remained at 0.9% for the second day in a row. Chennai recorded 164 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 137 and Chengalpattu with 101. As many as 91 people tested positive in Erode, while there were 74 cases each in Namakkal and Thanjavur and 70 in Tiruppur. With this, the State’s tally touched 26,76,936. Of the 14 fatalities (one in private hospital and 13 in government facilities), three were recorded in Coimbatore, and two each in Cuddalore, Erode and Tiruvarur. Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Vellore logged one death each. Tamil Nadu’s toll reached 35,768. As many as 16,252 people are under treatment at present — while there are 1,839 active cases in Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu account for 1,659 and 1,175 respectively. As many as 1,457 people, including 181 in Coimbatore and 169 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,24,916. A total of 1,43,863 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,83,23,822. The number of people vaccinated against COVID-19 fell below one lakh on Saturday. As many as 88,187 people were inoculated, taking the total coverage in government centres to 4,77,88,628. Among those vaccinated were 55,410 people aged 18 to 44 and 23,580 people in the aged 45-59 age group. Vaccination was held in 1,682 sessions. The vaccination coverage in private centres from May 1 stood at 25,70,237.  As many as 88,187 people were inoculated, taking the total coverage in government centres to 4,77,88,628||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1344-people-test-positive-in-tn/article36923814.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flash mob, skits staged at CMBT to draw attention to mental health||In line with the World Mental Health Day, the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) and The Candles, an NGO, conducted an awareness programme at Chennai Moffusil Bus Terminus, Koyambedu, on Saturday. World Mental Health Day is being observed on October 10. This year, the theme is “Mental health in an unequal world”. A flash mob, skits and a talk on issues surrounding mental health were organised as part of the awareness programme to reach out to the public. P. Poornachandrika, director of IMH, said the main focus of the programme was to reach out to public with information on what to do if they see a wandering mentally ill person. “We wanted to create awareness on this aspect as many do not know what to do if they come across a wandering mentally ill person. We distributed pamphlets to the public containing the helpline numbers of Greater Chennai Corporation, IMH and voluntary organisations. We told them that if wandering mentally ill persons are brought in, treatment can be initiated and they can be re-integrated,” she said. The aim was to reach out to all — both young and elderly — and hence, the programme was held at a public place such as CMBT, said Angelin Prince, director of The Candles, that works on health, mental health and menstrual hygiene. Student volunteers participated in the flash mob, while nurses of IMH staged a skit on suicide prevention and volunteers of the NGO staged a skit on mental health issues among families and students. The need to address mental health issues of women was also highlighted, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flash-mob-skits-staged-at-cmbt-to-draw-attention-to-mental-health/article36923790.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation to vacate Covid Care Centres from rented premises||The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to vacate Chennai Trade Centre, which was previously redeveloped as the largest Covid Care Centre during the second wave of the pandemic. At present, no patients are housed in the trade centre. But the Corporation and the Health Department had been maintaining the beds for the last six months on the premises as part of COVID-19 preparedness. The Tamil Nadu Trade Promotion Organisation, which owns the facility, has demanded a daily rent of Rs. 20 lakh (plus GST) from the Corporation for operating the centre. The civic body developed a Covid Care Centre with oxygen beds at the trade centre after the number of cases increased in April this year. More than 50 mobile toilets were stationed at the centre. The Corporation built a 11 kl tank for oxygen with distribution lines for more than 800 oxygen beds at the trade centre. Owing to the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in May, Corporation officials announced that more than 20 doctors from the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Superspecialty Hospital, Omandurar, and 15 doctors from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and 60 nurses were expected to be posted at the trade centre. However, no patients were admitted after June 19. The Corporation has vacated most of the Covid Care Centres in the city. Major Covid Care Centres in educational institutions such as Anna University have been vacated. The Covid Care Centre on the premises of Victoria Hostel is set to be shut down shortly. The Covid Care Centre in Manjambakkam hospital with 100 beds has less than 20% occupancy. Communicable diseases hospital in Tondiarpet has a Covid Care Centre. But the number of COVID-19 patients has reduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-vacate-covid-care-centres-from-rented-premises/article36923784.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five committees set up to monitor pollution in Cauvery||Five committees, comprising of engineers of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, have been set up to monitor the discharge of effluents from dyeing and bleaching units into River Cauvery and its tributaries in different parts of the State, according to Siva V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment, Climate Change, Youth Welfare and Sports. Dyeing units Pointing out that the panels were constituted on Wednesday, the Minister, in a statement on Saturday, referred to the location of the units in Erode, Kumarapalayam, Pallipalayam, Karur and Tiruppur. Mr. Meyyanathan’s statement followed the release of the findings of a study by researchers of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) on the level of pollution in the Cauvery. As pointed out by the researchers, water samples from the stretch of the river from Mettur to Mayiladuthurai were taken on Saturday and sent for testing. Other effluents In addition, steps were being taken to prevent the pollution of the river by other contaminants such as heavy metals, pesticides and medical and plastic waste. For this purpose, researchers from IIT-M and other experts in the field would be approached for suggestions, Mr. Meyyanathan said.  Water samples from the stretch of the river from Mettur to Mayiladuthurai were taken on Saturday and sent for testing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-committees-set-up-to-monitor-pollution-in-cauvery/article36923797.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro floats tenders for laying tracks in congested areas||With the construction work on a section of the phase II project slowly progressing, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has invited firms to lay tracks in some of the congested localities in the city, including CMBT, Valasaravakkam, Adambakkam and Kilakattalai, from Shollinganallur to SIPCOT. Under the tender for the 118.9-km project, whose cost touches Rs. 61,843 crore, the contractor will have to lay the track on the stretch from Madhavaram to Shollinganallur, covering areas like CMBT, Valasaravakkam, Alapakkam, Adambakkam, Vanuvampet, Puzhuthivakkam, Perumbakkam all the way till Elcot and from Shollinganallur to SIPCOT via Semmencheri and Navalur. According to CMRL officials, the contractor will have to procure, install and commission the track on these two stretches; finalising a contractor will take at least another three or four months. “Since the deadline for the whole project is 2026, we have to start opening one section after another in phases. Hence, we are calling for tenders right away so by the time the construction of viaduct and tunnel is complete, the contractor is ready to start laying the rails,” an official said. For track laying work in one of the phase II stretches, CMRL may finalise a contractor this week, and the work will begin a month after that. Construction of the viaduct between Poonamallee and Power House has been on for a few weeks, and CMRL had awarded contracts for underground work on the Madhavaram-Taramani stretch, kick-starting some of the initial work. “The work has been slow, but we are pushing the contractor to put in more labourers and continue the work in full swing,” another official said. Sources said if the contractor failed to meet deadlines from the initial phase of the project, it would affect the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-floats-tenders-for-laying-tracks-in-congested-areas/article36923796.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. constitutes advisory committee for IT sector||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted an advisory committee to act as a think tank to suggest proactive policy changes that will enable the State to benefit from innovation and technology of the future. The advisory council for ‘future IT, emerging and deep technologies’ will be chaired by Minister for Information and Technology T. Mano Thangaraj and have experts from the IT and start up ecosystem. Key members of this committee are: Information Technology Secretary Neeraj Mittal; ELCOT MD Ajay Yadav; co-founder, former CEO and managing director of Infosys Technologies Kris Gopalakrishnan; Kissflow MD and CEO Suresh Sambandam, and director of IIT Madras Bhaskar Ramamurthy. The State has also roped in chief operation officer of Tata Consultancy Services N.G. Subramaniam; founder of The Startup Centre Vijay Anand; CEO of Matrimony.com Limited Murugavel Janakiraman; former chairman and MD of ELCOT Madhavan Nambiar; VP of Nasscom Sector Skill Council Sandhya Chintala, and director-IS at Expeditors Kewyn George. The primary objective of the committee is to advise the Information Technology Department and the State’s leadership on how to promote emerging technologies that can be beneficial to the State and support it in developing an IT/emerging technologies vision plan for long-term economic development. Soon after the DMK was voted to power, during a departmental review meeting, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had said that the contribution to growth by the service sector, due to the economic growth of the State, would be higher in 10 years. Technologies like deep tech, fin tech, Artificial Intelligence (AI), block chain, robotics and quantum computing will play a major role in the development of the Information Technology Department. Mr. Sambandam said he would be making a presentation when the committee meets. “We should look at enhancing IT exports from Tamil Nadu and create more jobs in this space. Within IT, there are several sub sectors; we will identify how each of these can be utilised,” he said. “The State is thinking ahead on where its strengths are and how to leverage them,” Mr. Vijay Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-constitutes-advisory-committee-for-it-sector/article36923818.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates special needs school at Kolappancheri||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated Sankalp, The Learning Centre and Special Needs School, on Saturday. Set up by Sankalp, an NGO, the school at Kolappancheri, Poonamallee, is for students with autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability and young adults with special needs pursuing vocational training, according to a press release. Sankalp runs a school for children with specific learning disability at Shenoy Nagar. The centre at Kolappancheri, built over 50,000 sq ft, has state-of-the-art facilities and the architecture is open in design with sensory parks which will help children participate in activities of learning and acquiring skills at their own pace. “The vocational centre has a bakery and confectionery unit, weaving unit, leaf ware unit, tailoring unit and a computer operational skill unit (data entry). These units provide vocational training and ultimately help them to earn a livelihood,” the release said. The school, in the last two decades, has served more than 800 students with special needs and 160 of them have been mainstreamed or finished schooling by appearing for NIOS examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-special-needs-school-at-kolappancheri/article36923792.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu traders to promote use of cloth bags, government tells HC||Tamil Nadu Environment Secretary Supriya Sahu has told Madras High Court that traders in one of Asia’s largest vegetables and fruits markets at Koyambedu in the city have been asked to shed the use of plastic bags and encourage their customers to carry traditional yellow cloth bags, better known as manjapai . Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and P.T. Asha, who were seized of a case related to the ban on plastics, the Secretary said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had undertaken awareness campaigns in Koyambedu market on October 2. Traders had also promised to stop using disposable plastic bags. Listing out other measures being taken by the State government to discourage the use of plastic products, the Secretary said a steering committee had been put in place to monitor progress and that considerable change could be seen in next three months. Appreciating the Secretary for having made an elaborate presentation before the court, the judges said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin could also do his bit towards plastic eradication campaign when the government puts out awareness videos on television channels and other media. When one of the counsels brought it to the notice of the judges that banning plastics in the State alone would not be sufficient since food items packed in plastic sachets come here from other States too, the judges sought to know steps taken by the Centre to discourage the use of plastics. Taking note that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired a meeting titled PRAGATI (Pro Active Governance and Timely Implementation) on February 24, the judges wanted to know the outcome of the meet. Since there was no representation on behalf of the Centre in any of the hearings, the judges ordered that Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan be informed about it when the case gets listed next on November 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-traders-to-promote-use-of-cloth-bags-govt-tells-hc/article36923801.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club donates ventilator to CHILDS Trust Hospital||The Rotary Club of Madras donated an infant ventilator worth Rs. 20 lakh to Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital on Saturday. A press release quoted club president Mohan Raman as saying that the State government and the medical fraternity are thinking ahead to improve the critical infrastructure at hospitals. The club too decided to pitch in by donating a ventilator for the neo natal ICU. Several Rotarians, Rotary Clubs from the U.S., RI Dist 5230 and 5160 from California and NGOs like Global Uplift, headed by Prakash Peter Shah, supported the efforts, the release added. N. Chandrakumar, senior consultant, who heads the department of Neonatology, KKCTH, said the ventilator was equipped with advanced modes, including non-invasive oscillatory ventilation, to treat preterm babies weighing less than 1 kg. The club’s district governor J. Sridhar participated, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-club-donates-ventilator-to-childs-trust-hospital/article36923785.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Harrington Road made a one-way||Harrington Road in Chetpet will be a one-way during peak hours from Monday. The road will be a one-way from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. and from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. To ease the traffic congestion on Harrington Road, a similar system was introduced in 2016 and revoked after the lockdown was announced. “Now, the lockdown has been relaxed and almost all the commercial establishments, educational institutions, government and private organisations have started functioning,” said a senior official in a press release. Vehicles from Chetpet junction going to EVR Salai will have to take McNichols Road, Dr. Gurusamy Bridge and Ega Theatre junction. Vehicles from E.V.R. Salai going to Chetpet will be allowed via Ega Theatre junction, with a right turn towards Dr. Gurusamy Bridge. The residents of Harrington Road can take a U-turn at Harrington Road subway. Stakeholders’ suggestions will be invited, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harrington-road-made-a-one-way/article36923786.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom Federation mooted||The forming of Tamil Nadu-Sri Lanka Powerloom Federation was mooted by Sri Lankan Deputy High Commissioner D. Venkateshwaran recently to bolster the fabric industry in both countries. Making this suggestion at an event organised by the Sri Lanka Deputy High Commission and Tamil Nadu Powerlooms Federation in Chennai on Wednesday, Mr. Venkateshwaran told the gathering that “tremendous trade and investment opportunities” were available in Sri Lanka, which would be mutually beneficial to the countries, given the fact that “India is Sri Lanka’s closest neighbour and second largest trading partner.” He explained various benefits available to investors under different pacts and measures of the Board of Investment, Sri Lanka. The diplomat invited participants at the event to visit Sri Lanka to explore the investment opportunities in the Eravur fabric processing park at Batticaloa in the Eastern Province. Emphasising the importance of doing business in the neighbouring country, M.S. Mathivanan, president of the Tamil Nadu Powerlooms Federation, called for the establishment of a textile and management institution in Sri Lanka to provide technical knowledge about the contemporary textile industry.  Tremendous trade and investment opportunities are available in Sri Lanka, which would be mutually beneficial to the countries D. Venkateshwaran Sri Lankan Deputy High Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diplomat-calls-for-the-formation-of-tn-sri-lanka-powerloom-federation/article36923794.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rain will continue in parts of State till Oct. 13||Rain will continue to lash many parts of the State for three or four more days. The Meteorological Department has predicted fairly widespread rain over Tamil Nadu. Heavy rain is likely in ten districts, including the Nilgiris, Krishnagiri, Salem, Madurai and Tiruchi on Sunday. Many other places in the State may witness thunderstorms with moderate rain till October 13. Thunderstorms may shift to other districts and isolated heavy rain is likely in 14 districts on Monday. On Saturday, humid, hot weather in Chennai translated to thunderstorms in many areas by the evening. The day temperature had touched nearly 36 degrees Celsius at Nungambakkam and 35.4 degrees Celsius at Meenambakkam, which is nearly three degrees Celsius higher than an October day. Dark rain clouds that hovered over the city brought evening thunderstorms in several areas, including Egmore, Taramani, Vadapalani and Meenambakkam. While MRC Nagar received nearly 4 cm, Nungambakkam recorded 1 cm of rain by 5.30 p.m. Some other weather stations in Chidambaram (3 cm), Hosur and Yercaud also experienced light rain by the evening. S. Balachandran, deputy director of Meteorology, Chennai, said strong westerlies would trigger convective activity and thunderstorms over the State, particularly in the hilly regions and the northern districts. Southwest monsoon is yet to withdraw completely, and is expected to gradually retreat from other parts like Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh in the next few days. Though a low pressure area is likely to form around Sunday, it may not have any direct impact over the State, as the weather system is expected to move towards Odisha. This October, it has been a good start for monsoon rain, with the State receiving an overall 8.4 cm against its quota of 4.3 cm so far this month, he added. Similar weather pattern may continue over Chennai with thunderstorms and moderate rain likely to occur in some areas. The city may experience a maximum temperature of around 34 degrees Celsius till Monday, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-will-continue-in-parts-of-state-till-oct-13/article36923811.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic curbs imposed on Madhavaram High Road||The traffic police have announced that Madhavaram High Road would be a one-way from October 10 to 25. TATA Project Ltd. is planning to carry out a soil investigation on Madhavaram High Road at Sembium, Perambur, for Chennai Metro Rail’s Project Phase-II, Corridor-3 TU-01. Vehicles coming from Moolakadai to Perambur Railway Station will be diverted to Lakshmi Amman Kovil Street via Melpatti Ponnappan Street, Birth and Burial Road (BB Road) and Perambur High Road. Curbs in Doveton The traffic police announced restrictions in Doveton for three days until Tuesday to facilitate repair work by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Vehicles from Perambur, Ayanavaram and Villivakkam taking Perambur Barracks Road and proceeding towards Doveton / Purasawalkam High Road to Egmore will be diverted via Cooks Road and Brick Kiln Road. Vehicles coming from Kodungaiyur and Vyasarpadi via Perambur Barracks Road and going towards Doveton / Purasawalkam High Road to reach Egmore will be diverted at the junction of Pattalam tower clock to Demellows Road, and Choolai Roundtana. Vehicles coming from EVK Sampath Road and Vepery High Road, towards Doveton to reach Perambur, will be diverted to Doveton bridge, PH Road, and GE Koil Street. Vehicles coming from EVR Salai towards Pulianthope will be diverted to take Doveton Service Road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-curbs-imposed-on-madhavaram-high-road/article36923787.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action taken against shops selling fertilizers||Action has been taken against 101 private shops selling fertilizers for not having complied with the fertiliser control order. A release issued by the State Agriculture and Family Welfare Department on Saturday stated that inspection was carried out in 3,391 shops on Friday. This followed the mechanism set up for farmers to address grievances related to the sale of fertilizer. At present, farming operations were in progress in over 13.168 lakh acres of land during the current Samba cultivation season, the release from the Department added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-taken-against-shops-selling-fertilizers/article36923799.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police warn about malicious links, text messages||The city police has issued a fresh advisory on malicious links on SMS and WhatsApp offering part-time jobs or asking bank customers to update details. Police have appealed to public not to click such messages and delete them immediately. One of the widely circulated message is that “YOUR MOBILE NUMBER WAS SELECTED FOR PAYMENT OF 5.7 CRORE RUPEES IN E.U DONATION 2021 TO Receive SEND/ NAME/AGE/MOBILE NO TO/Email: tavernphilips@europe.com”. Similarly, fraudsters also send messages saying that SBI Yono account would be locked and asking mobile user to click a link, which is malicious, and update PAN. Or they send messages offering part-time jobs through Flipkart or Amazon to cheat the gullible public. A police official said such messages had been sent in bulk to mobile users recently either as SMS or on WhatsApp. “Despite warning by us, people fall prey to fraudsters. Immediately on clicking those links, the data on mobile phone of individual will be compromised. Hence we appeal to public not to fall prey to these tactics,” he said.  Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has asked people looking for alliances on matrimony sites not to send any money to prospective bride or bridegrooms who may ask on the pretext of sending gift parcel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warn-about-malicious-links-text-messages/article36924299.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over scooters to differently abled persons||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday handed over retrofitted petrol scooters to five differently abled persons, maintenance allowance of Rs. 1,500 each to five severely affected differently abled persons and appointment orders to four persons chosen under compassionate grounds. A release stated that all those who were on the waiting list for the retrofitted petrol scooters — 1,228 beneficiaries — would be covered. Likewise, all the 9,173 persons on the list for the maintenance allowance would be covered. A special allocation of Rs. 29.64 crore had been made in this regard. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary of the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department, R. Lalvena and Commissioner in the Department, Johny Tom Varghese, were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-scooters-to-differently-abled-persons/article36923798.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lured by prize, man loses Rs. 5 lakh||Fraudsters cheated a 27-year-old man in Perambur of Rs. 5 lakh on the pretext of offering him a bumper prize of Rs. 18 lakh. Police said Vinodh, working in a private firm, had entered his personal details on an e-commerce portal. Next day, he received a pair of slippers as a gift. Two days later, he received a call from a man informing him that he was eligible to receive a bumper prize of Rs. 18 lakh. He shared a demand draft on WhatsApp and demanded 1% commission. Mr. Vinodh transferred Rs. 18,000. Later, the caller convinced him to transfer Rs. 5 lakh and became incommunicado. Realising that he had been conned, Mr. Vinodh lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime Wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lured-by-big-prize-man-loses-rs-5-lakh/article36923788.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic not to be stopped for CM’s convoy||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has instructed the police not to stop people when his convoy is moving on the roads, said sources. The direction was issued after his convoy recently caused a traffic jam in the city, drawing flak. The number of vehicles in his convoy too will be reduced from 12 to six, said police sources. The decision was taken at a review meeting convened by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. The police have been instructed to make arrangements for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-not-to-be-stopped-for-cms-convoy/article36923812.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New judge assumes office in High Court||Justice T.S. Sivagnanam, the senior-most judge of the Madras High Court, on Saturday administered the oath of office to Justice Paresh Ravishanker Upadhyay, who has been transferred from the Gujarat High Court. Following the President’s nod for the transfer, Governor R.N. Ravi had authorised Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee or the senior most judge of the court to administer the oath of office to the new judge. Since the Chief Justice was not in station due to Dussehra holidays, Justice Sivagnanam administered the oath. In his welcome address, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram said Justice Upadhyay had been a judge of the Gujarat High Court for a decade. The A-G also recalled the significant judgments passed by Justice Upadhyay, and said he had, on August 26, quashed an externment order passed against an individual who had protested against the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In his reply, Justice Upadhyay said taking the oath of office as a judge of the Madras High Court was a matter of pride, and it also carried great responsibility. He assured the Bar and the Bench that he would do everything that was expected of a judge. The judge said he had decided to engage a Tamil teacher to learn the language. “Coming to this State by itself is a privilege and I will try to meet all expectations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-judge-assumes-office-in-high-court/article36923819.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rural local bodies polls incident-free||No major incident was recorded on Saturday’s rural local bodies ordinary election held in a few places in the district. The only incident that was reported was towards the close of polls in Kariyampalayam, near Annur, where a woman was alleged to have impersonated another woman voter at the behest of a political party functionary. Official sources said that the were inquiring into the incident. Polling began around 7 a.m. for a district panchayat ward – Ward 3 (Annur), two village panchayats for president – Thenkumarapalayam in Pollachi South Panchayat Union and Diwanshapudur in Anamalai Panchayat Union, and 10 panchayat ward members’ post in as many panchayats. Fifty-one candidates were in the fray and 77,104 voters were to cast their votes. The district administration, based on instruction from the State Election Commission, had made elaborate arrangements for the polls and ensured that the COVID-19 safety guideline was followed. The booth officials handed over a pair of gloves to every voter who turned up to vote and ensured that the polling booths were not crowded. The voting took time as voters had to cast votes using ballot papers. Right since the morning, polling was brisk in a majority of the 128 booths, sources said. At the close of polls at 6 p.m., 27,552 of the 37,240 male voters and 28,127 of the 39,862 female voters had exercised their franchise. Of the two third-gender voters, one had cast vote. In total, 72.21% voters had exercised their franchise. The officials would be taking the ballot boxes from the panchayats to the respective panchayat union offices for counting. The ballot boxes used in the district panchayat ward member election would be taken to a local school, where counting would take place on October 12.  Staff Reporter adds from Udhagamandalam: By-elections in three wards in the Nilgiris in Gudalur panchayat union and Kotagiri were held on Saturday. In Gudalur panchayat union, by-elections for the post of panchayat union councillor were held in Ward 4 (Masinagudi) and Ward 11 (Cherangode), while in Kotagiri, elections were held for the post of village panchayat councillor in Ward 4 of Naduhatty panchayat. A total of 14,143 persons cast their votes in the 13 polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-local-bodies-polls-incident-free/article36923843.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Part of D.B. Road in the city cordoned off for bicycle track||On the east of D.B. Road, starting from the Cowley Brown Road junction the Coimbatore Corporation has cordoned off a portion to create bicycle track. Sources said the civic body had placed bollards to demarcate 2m space and marked the space with paints for cyclists to use the lane. At present the demarcation was on an experimental basis to study the impact and make changes, if necessary. If the Corporation found the experiment successful, it would make the track permanent by making permanent interventions. After demarcation of the 2m bicycling track, around 7m was available for motor vehicles, including buses, and the intervention in no way reduced the availability of carriage way. D.B. Road was a residential road-turned commercial street but it was definitely not a thoroughfare, the sources said and added that the intervention would in no way affect traffic. In fact, the Corporation had worked with the Coimbatore City Traffic Police before demarcating the cycling track. It had also requested police personnel to man the place as it had received complaints of motorists using the track. The ources further argued that the stretch demarcated for the track was a place that was already cordoned off by the police to prevent road users from parking on the eastern side. Therefore, there was no actual reduction in the width of the carriage way. Further, once the Corporation completed the multi-level car parking project to throw it open for parking vehicles, the place now occupied for parking vehicles – the west side of D.B. Road – would also be available for road users. As for the bicycling track, the sources said the Corporation hoped to study its impact for about three months before making the next move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/part-of-db-road-in-the-city-cordoned-off-for-bicycle-track/article36923838.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife Crime Control Bureau will be a multi-agency body||The State-level Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, which the Forest Department is to constitute, will be a multi-agency body and the first of its kind in any State in the country. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj said the body would have officers on board from the Police and the Customs departments. “The bureau will address all cases related to wildlife and timber. It will be equipped with modern tools and equipment for intelligence collection, processing and crime investigations,” said Mr. Niraj, who formerly headed TRAFFIC India, a wildlife trade monitoring network of the IUCN and WWF. He said the bureau would be a professional body with a fair amount of independence. It would be free to coordinate with other agencies in the country. According to him, the State-level bureau will also coordinate with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. It will have sniffer dog squads at its command to detect wildlife articles. As per the current plan, the department will set up four zonal units in Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Ramanathapuram or Thoothukudi, to cover places with forests and coastal areas. The bureau will have a tough task of preventing and detecting crimes, ranging from felling and smuggling of sandalwood trees to trafficking of marine species, including sea cucumber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-crime-control-bureau-to-be-a-multi-agency-body/article36923825.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln operators in Coimbatore accused of destroying evidence||The Thadagam Valley Protection Committee on Saturday petitioned the Coimbatore District Collector, accusing brick kiln owners of destroying evidence of illegal mining they had committed. The petition alleged that an illegally mined area in No. 11 Veerapandi village was levelled using earthmover on Thursday. According to the petitioners, the mining area was levelled as a team tasked by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is expected to visit the place to assess the extent of quarrying that had been done. The petitioners said that the highest amount of illegal quarrying was done in No. 11 Veerapandi village in Thadagam Valley and the levelling was done fearing huge penalty which the NGT might impose on brick kiln operators. After the levelling of the mining sites were reported in the media, a team of officials led by the Assistant Director Mines, Coimbatore, visited No. 11 Veerapandi village on Friday. However, according to the committee, the team did not visit the place where a quarry was levelled. Instead, it visited another land where no activity has been done for several months, said the committee in its petition. The committee also urged the Collector to take disciplinary action against officials who colluded with brick kiln operators and aided their illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brick-kiln-operators-in-thadagam-valley-destroying-evidence/article36923849.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Civil services prelims exam in 25 centres today||The Union Public Service Commission preliminary examination will be held at 25 centres in the district on Sunday. A meeting to review the arrangements for the examination was held at the Collectorate on Saturday. A release said Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation Managing Director G. Prakash, the observer for the district for the examination, held a meeting in the presence of Collector G.S. Sameeran, District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex, Deputy Commissioner of Police Uma, Sub-Collector, Pollachi, Thakare Subham Dnyandeorao and others. The release said 10,955 candidates had chosen to appear for the examination. The administration had deployed eight assistant coordinators in the rank of deputy collectors 25 examination supervisors in the rank of tahsildars at one each a centre, 46 deputy supervisors and 931 hall supervisors. All the officials would be working under the coordination supervisor, the District Collector. The police would be deploying enough personnel at the examination centres, where mobile phone jammers were in place. The administration had asked Tangedco to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the centres and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation to ply buses to the centres from Ukkadam, Kavundampalayam, Singanallur, Sulur and Pollachi. The candidates would do well to report before 8.30 a.m. for the forenoon session and before 1.30 p.m. for the afternoon session with their e-admit card, the release said and appealed to them to follow all the Commission-given guidelines. They should also wear mask and maintain physical distance, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civil-services-prelims-exam-in-25-centres-today/article36923844.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two lakh persons to be vaccinated today: Collector||The district administration has set a target of vaccinating two lakh persons in the fifth mega vaccination planned on October 9, Collector G.S. Sameeran said at a press meet here on Saturday. The administration had identified 3.40 lakh persons to be eligible to receive the second dose of vaccination. The administration had targeted and planned to vaccinate at least two lakh of them in 1,429 camps to be set up on Sunday – 1,104 camps in rural areas and 325 camps in Coimbatore Corporation limits. The administration had identified 27.90 lakh persons to be eligible for vaccination – those over 18 years of age. Of those, it had vaccinated 25.63 lakh, which was 91%. Of the 25.63 lakh persons, 3.40 lakh had their first dose at least 80 days ago. In the mega vaccination camps held so far, the administration, Mr. Sameeran said, had vaccinated 1.51 lakh on September 12, 94,723 on September 19, 1.13 lakh on September 26, and 81,454 on October 3. In all, the administration had vaccinated 4.41 lakh persons in the four mega camps. Of those, 2.28 lakh were administered their first dose and 2.13 lakh the second dose. For Sunday’s vaccination camp, the administration had 2.26 lakh doses on hand – 1.84 lakh Covishield doses and 42,590 Covaxin doses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-lakh-persons-to-be-vaccinated-today-collector/article36923846.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Awareness meet held on Kasturi cotton||Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management (SVPITM) organised events here on Thursday to create awareness on Kasturi cotton. A press release said that to mark World Cotton Day, meetings, panel discussion, and fashion show were held on Kasturi cotton, which was launched by the Ministry of Textiles on October 7 last year. Kasturi cotton is the brand for high quality Indian cotton. J. Thulasidharan, president of the Indian Cotton Federation, said at the meeting that Kasturi brand was launched to increase India’s share in the global cotton trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-meet-held-on-kasturi-cotton/article36923839.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Snatchers target woman rider, escape with broken chain piece||Two-wheeler-borne miscreants snatched a portion of the gold chain of a 34-year-old woman when she was riding her two-wheeler near here on Friday. The police said that a part of the one-sovereign chain belonging to S. Neelavathi, a resident of Kalampalayam, was snatched by two men who came in a motorcycle. The snatchers approached her at Sri Bharathi Nagar on G Kavundampalayam to Kattanjimalai road. The pillion rider grabbed the woman’s chain and she promptly held it with one hand. The chain broke and the snatchers escaped with one part. Ms. Neelavathi fell on the road after losing control of the two-wheeler. Her left ear was injured. Held for murder bid The Peelamedu police on Friday arrested a 21-year-old man on charges of attempting to murder his friend. The accused has been identified as K. Sakthivel, a resident of Sowripalayam on Peelamedu main road. The police said that Sakthivel had asked money from his friend K. Murugan (26), a resident of Eswaran Kovil Street at Sowripalayam, to bring out his friend from prison on bail. The police said that Murugan refused to give money, following which Sakthivel stabbed Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snatchers-target-woman-rider-escape-with-broken-chain-piece/article36923851.ece
10 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to focus on land acquisition for projects||One of the main requirements of Coimbatore is better infrastructure and developing it will require innovative approaches from the government to get land for the projects, according to sources here. Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara participated in a consultation meeting on Friday, organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, to revise the current Master Plan for Coimbatore. Several infrastructure projects, including ring roads, logistic hub, health hub, and satellite towns, were mooted at the meeting. However, all these works require land. A major challenge in Coimbatore is exorbitant land price. The government should identify the land and start acquisition before the rates go up, says K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. C. Balasubramanian, president of the Chamber, said industrial workers, especially migrant workers, are unable to get houses for rent at affordable prices and in the long-term, this may discourage workers from coming to Coimbatore for work. The industries want the government to provide housing facilities for workers even on public - private partnership model. “If there is infrastructure and better connectivity, Coimbatore’s economy will take off,” he said. Availability of land is not a problem in Coimbatore. It is the prices that stall projects. There are stretches of dry lands that are converted into plots. A few of these get sold and the rest remain unsold. This leads to larger number of land owners and if an entrepreneur wants to buy a larger plot, the prices shoot up. Architect Arun Prasad said the government should look at different models of land pooling. This concept took off first in Gujarat. For farmers, land is their only means of livelihood and if it is taken away, they feel helpless. The government should look at giving alternative lands or making the land owners shareholders in the development works. Thus, they do not lose the land, have a source of income, and become participants in the development works, he said. The government should form special purpose vehicles that will bring the landowners together. Another major requirement is mapping and consolidating data of all government land across the district, he said.  The government should identify the land and start acquisition before the rates go up K. Kathirmathiyon Secretary of a forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-focus-on-land-acquisition-for-projects/article36923847.ece
10 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||UPSC rank holders felicitated||Two Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) rank holders from Coimbatore, V.S. Narayana Sarma and D. Ranjith, were felicitated by the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Uptown and Rotary Club of Coimbatore Central in the city recently. The function was presided over by C. Puliyurudaiyan, Coimbatore Rotary Uptown president, and Subramaniam Babu, Rotary Coimbatore Central president. The chief guest was Past District Governor A.V. Pathy and the guest of honour was K.P. Ramasamy, chairman, KPR Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upsc-rank-holders-felicitated/article36923848.ece
10 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Five held for murder of worker at DMK MP’s cashew unit||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Saturday arrested five persons in connection with the murder of a worker in a cashew processing unit belonging to Cuddalore DMK MP T.R.V.S. Ramesh in Panikankuppam, near Panruti. The murder took place on September 20. The arrested have been identified as Natarajan, Kandavel, Allapichai, Vinodh and Sundararajan, all employees of the cashew processing unit. Police said they are searching for Mr. Ramesh. The case, which was initially probed by the Kadampuliyur police, was transferred to the CB-CID on the directions of Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on September 28. The case was converted into murder by the CB-CID which took over the probe. According to the police, the victim K. Govindarasu, 60, of Melmampattu, was working as a labourer in the cashew processing unit for the last seven years. On September 20, Govindarasu was returning home after work when an employee frisked him and accused him of stealing 7 kg of cashew nuts. Govindarasu was allegedly assaulted on the premises and later taken to the Kadampuliyur police station for lodging a complaint. The Station House officer noticed bleeding injuries on Govindarasu’s face and asked the complainants Kandavelu and Shanmugam to take him to hospital. However, the duo reportedly took the victim back to the unit. Govindarasu was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. According to CB-CID sources, the team perused CCTV footage of the victim being brought to the police station on September 20 and conducted enquiries. The team arrested the five based on prima facie evidence. The accused were produced before a local court and remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-murder-at-dmk-mps-cashew-unit/article36923803.ece
10 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rural local body polls peaceful in Erode||Casual elections to rural local bodies to fill 20 vacancies in nine panchayat unions in the district were held peacefully here on Saturday. Of the 27 vacancies, office-bearers for seven posts were elected unopposed in the unions of Modakkurichi and Kodumudi, while elections to various posts in the unions of Erode, Perundurai, Chennimalai, Ammapettai, Anthiyur, Bhavani, Nambiyur, T.N. Palayam and Bhavanisagar was held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at 144 polling stations. A total of 80,225 electors comprising 39,755 men, 40,466 women and four transgender were eligible to vote, of which 70.22% voters exercised their democratic rights. Polling was held for district panchayat ward member (one post), panchayat union ward member (two posts), village panchayat president (four posts) and village panchayat ward member (13 posts). After the polling, ballot boxes were packed and taken to the respective counting centres in the nine unions and kept in the strong rooms and sealed. Counting of votes will take place on October 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-local-body-polls-peaceful-in-erode/article36923948.ece
10 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||School building awaits inauguration for over a year||The newly constructed school building for the Government Higher Secondary School at Devarmalai in Bargur Hills is waiting for inauguration for over a year, forcing students to study in the open. Started as a primary school in 1963, the school was upgraded as an elementary school in 2002, high school in 2011 and higher secondary school in 2016. While 300 students study from Classes I to V, about 400 students study from Classes VI to XII. Though the school was upgraded, additional classrooms and laboratories are not constructed. There are only six classrooms for the 700 and odd students while over 15 classes are required for the students. Before the COVID-19 lockdown, five classes were conducted under the shade of a tree while two classes functioned from a community hall near the school. At present, about 220 students from Classes IX to XII are attending the classes and two classes are conducted in the open. The State government had in 2016 allotted Rs. 1.68 crore for construction of a building for the high school with 12 rooms. Work began in 2018 and was completed in March, 2020. The keys were handed over to the school in the early 2021. But, due to various reasons such as the Assembly election and change of government, the building is yet to be inaugurated. The building comprises laboratory, staff room, headmaster and office rooms in the ground floor, four classrooms in the first floor and four classrooms in the second floor. “During rainy season, students take shelter in the veranda,” a parent said. Since students were asked to ensure personal distance while in the class due to COVID-19 safety protocol, they faced hardship, the parent said. Sources said the new building was constructed only to accommodate high school students and six more classrooms were needed to accommodate the students of Classes XI and XII. “Even after shifting to the new building, two classes need to be conducted in the veranda,” said a teacher. Anthiyur MLA, A.G. Venkatachalam told The Hindu the new school buildings in Devarmalai, Osur and Athani were proposed to be inaugurated by the ministers after the local body elections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-building-awaits-inauguration-for-over-a-year/article36923860.ece
10 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp to be held at 900 centres||The fifth COVID-19 vaccination camp will be held at 900 centres across the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. Collector H. Krishnanunni said the administration had planned to vaccinate 1.25 lakh people in the district and all the arrangements were in place. Also, persons who received their first shot of Covishield could get vaccinated after 84 days while persons who received Covaxin could get vaccinated after 28 days. A total of 2,92,588 persons were vaccinated during the four camps held from September 12 to October 3. Mobile vehicles Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said a total of 60 camps would be held in the 60 wards while 40 mobile vehicles would also be used to vaccinate the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-to-be-held-at-900-centres/article36923956.ece
10 October 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||Woman, 2 daughters found dead in Kovilpatti||In a case of suspected suicide, a mother and her two daughters were found hanging in their house here on Saturday. Police said labourer M. Muthumari, 45 of Rajiv Nagar here, was living in her house with her daughters Yuvarani, 21, a college student, and Nithya, 17, a Plus Two student, after her husband Muthuraman abandoned the family 15 years ago. When the house remained locked on Saturday morning even after 9.30 a.m., the neighbours peeped through the window to find the mother and the daughters hanging in separate rooms. The Kovilpatti West police were alerted. The police rushed to the spot and the bodies were sent to Kovilpatti Government Hospital for post-mortem. Since the house had been locked from outside, the police are investigating to find if there was any foul play in the deaths. Kovilpatti West police are investigating the case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-two-daughters-found-dead/article36923938.ece
10 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district registers 73.14 % voter turnout||The casual elections held in Madurai district to the vacant posts in rural local bodies passed off peacefully on Saturday. Madurai district registered an overall voter turnout of 73.14 % as per the data provided by officials. The civic polls are being held for 25 posts. With 17 candidates elected unopposed, the election for the remaining eight posts was held. The civic polls were held for posts that included the district panchayat ward member and village panchayat ward member. Polls took place in Tirumangalam, Tiruparankundram, Kottampatti, T. Kallupatti and Kallikudi in the Madurai district. Women voters, who were in large numbers at the Chekkanoorani polling station, wore masks. However, due to the delay in completing the voting process, the physical distancing at some of the stations was neglected. The staff on duty had to regulate the voters. Earlier, Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar visited the polling stations in Chekkanoorani and other locations to ensure the smooth conduct of the polls. He also instructed the officials to ensure that COVID-19 protocol was followed at the polling stations. Police personnel were deployed at the polling stations in large numbers. The volunteers were also deployed in good numbers to assist the elderly voters. Senior citizens who came to cast their votes without wearing face masks were provided with the masks by the volunteers. Disposable gloves were given to voters. Sanitisers and thermal scanners were also used as per COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-registers-7314-voter-turnout/article36924156.ece
10 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC denies bail to man for bid to defraud ex-Attorney General||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a bail petition filed by an accused from Tiruvarur district who allegedly tried to defraud former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi of Rs. 4.99 lakh. Justice B. Pugalendhi dismissed the bail petition filed by accused A. Asaithambi of Tiruvarur district. The Judge took into account the fact that the investigation into the fraud case was at the initial stage and dismissed the bail petition. The case of the prosecution was that the Balachandar, Manager of the HDFC Bank, Thanjavur, lodged a complaint stating that HDFC bank had received a cheque for a sum of Rs. 4.99 lakh through Chennai Bankers Clearing House on August 7 for payment by UCO bank, Thanjavur. It was said that the cheque was issued by Mr. Mukul Rohatgi in favour of New World Trust. It was returned by the bank in the normal course of business on August 7. Later, HDFC bank received an alert from their customer bank through their branch that the deposited cheque in UCO bank was a cloned instrument and misused by miscreants. Based on the complaint, the Thanjavur District Crime Branch police registered a case under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioner was named the main accused. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on August 21. However, the petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him and said that he was innocent. He said that he was running the New World Trust, a social welfare trust, and had received donations from many people. He said that the cheque was given to the trust as a donation. Till he was arrested and remanded he did not realise that the cheque was a cloned one. No money was encashed as the cheque was returned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-denies-bail-to-man-for-bid-to-defraud-ex-attorney-general/article36923861.ece
10 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wellness baby camp||About 250 infants, children and their parents participated in a wellness baby event organised by the paediatric department of Velammal Hospital here on Saturday. The event was conducted to share information on the immunisation schedule and the importance of proper hygiene for children. Paediatricians carried out various on-the-spot assessments to mark a child's growth and educate the parents. According to a press release, the event was inaugurated by the Founder and Chairman of Velammal Medical College Hospital M.V. Muthuramalingam. The head of paediatrics G. Mathevan and senior paediatricians R.V. Jeyabalaji and S. Nataraja Rathinam addressed the gathering to create awareness among public of a child's growth and milestones . Infants in three age categories -- six months to two year, 2-3 years and three-plus -- were awarded prizes for qualifying under different health and wellness age-appropriate parameters. Cash prize of Rs. 3,00,000 was distributed among 47 winning babies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wellness-baby-camp/article36924158.ece
10 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Interim bail for man whose car stored with fire crackers exploded||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has granted interim bail to the man whose car stored with firecrackers had exploded accidentally in a village near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted interim bail to D. Balakrishnan till October 27 after taking note of the fact that the petitioner was willing to renovate the damaged houses. The petitioner had already spent Rs. 4 lakh to renovate three houses. He gave an undertaking to renovate the remaining damaged houses. Considering the same, the court granted him the interim bail. The court directed the Thoothukudi police to file a report on the progress made in the investigation so far. The petitioner said that he had stored the crackers in his car to supply them for festivals. The State submitted that around 37 houses and a school were damaged in the explosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-bail-for-man-whose-car-stored-with-fire-crackers-exploded/article36923923.ece
10 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Agrofood chamber welcomes HC verdict||Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has welcomed the recent Madras High Court judgment that directed the State government to identify suitable land to establish leaders’ parks in order to shift all the statues that pose a hindrance to traffic on roads. Its president S. Rethinavelu said that the statues were erected on the initial euphoria immediately after the demise of a leader, but were mostly neglected after a few years. When the statues get damaged naturally or by miscreants, it creates a law and order problem. Normal life of people gets affected. Police are deployed to protect the statues. Public money is wasted. Iron cages are erected to protect them. Such events are disrespectful to the leaders, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agrofood-chamber-welcomes-hc-verdict/article36924153.ece
10 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl recovers from autoimmune paralysis||An 11-year-old girl has recovered from a paralytic attack that was triggered by her autoimmune disorder. Thanks to the joint efforts of doctors from multiple departments at Government Rajaji Hospital, the child, after spending 30 days in the Intensive Respiratory Care Unit (IRCU), is now up on her feet and ready to go home. It was heartbreaking to see an otherwise conscious child bed-ridden and strapped to a host of tubes and equipment including ventilator for over a month, said head of paediatrics, S Balasankar. In between, she lost her father and the mother had to leave her for few days under the total care of IRCU nurses in the hospital. The gesture provided by the entire medical and para-medical team earned appreciation from the Dean Dr.A Rathinavel. Giving details about the case, Dr.Balasankar said the patient had first reported with back ache and pain in her knee and other joints, indicative of rheumatoid arthritis and was on treatment. But she soon returned to the emergency in a totally paralysed condition with respiratory distress. Two vials of an expensive life saving drug Immunoglobulin were administered intravenously but the child showed no improvement. She could not even move her little finger and was diagnosed with a rare disease called Mixed Connective Tissue Disorder, he said. After six rounds of plasmapheresis, the patient started improving, regained her strength and mobility. Paediatricians, neurologists, nephrologist, dermatologist, rheumatologist, anaesthetist, physiotherapist, dietician, blood bank officer and nurses coordinated in treating her successfully, the Dean said. The treatment with expensive injections (costing up to Rs. 80,000 a vial) and month-long stay in intensive care unit would cost huge sums in any other hospital, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-year-old-girl-recovers-from-autoimmune-paralysis/article36923933.ece
10 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Navaratri festival at Ramakrishna Math||Sri Ramakrishna Math here has planned to celebrate Navaratri festival from October 11 to 15. In a press release here on Saturday, Swami Kamalatmananda said that to celebrate the festival, an eight foot holy image of Sri Durga Devi has been brought from Kolkata for worship. Chanting of Chandi (Devi Mahathmiyam) will be held from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on all these days. On October 13, Maha Ashtami day will be celebrated with a special puja following homam and special lecture. After these programmes, prasad will be served to all. Ayutha and Saraswati pujas will be celebrated on October 14 and Vijayadasami on October 15. Akshrabyasam (Vidyarambam), initiating education for children, will be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/navaratri-festival-at-ramakrishna-math/article36924154.ece
10 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead in Madurai||A couple were found dead in their house. Police investigations indicated that a fire reportedly from the air-conditioner unit may have led to their death on Saturday. Police said Sakti Kannan (43) of SVP Nagar, Third Cross, Anaiyur here, lived with his wife Subha (37), daughter Kavya (17) and son Karthikeyan (14). He was a businessman and native of Virudhunagar district. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the fire from the AC unit may have led to fumes in the bedroom and led to suffocation and death of the couple. The children, an officer said, had slept in the ground floor, while the parents were on the first floor. Koodal Pudur police sent the two bodies for postmortem. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-found-dead-in-madurai/article36923915.ece
10 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.40 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 1,313 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 55.77 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,236 cusecs and a discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,820 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36923942.ece
10 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in tanker burst||A truck mechanic died when the storage tank of a tanker burst during repair works in Namakkal on Saturday. The police said Periyasami (38) was welding the storage tank of the fuel tanker at his workshop. Reportedly, minimal quantity of petrol was inside the tanker and Periyasami was not aware of it. While welding the truck, the tank burst and Periyasami died on the spot. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-tanker-burst/article36923961.ece
10 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Flight services to resume by month-end||Flight services from Puducherry airport that were suspended after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic early last year, will resume by the end of this month. Budget airliner SpiceJet commenced operations to Hyderabad in 2017, under the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme UDAN, and in the subsequent year, the operator launched daily flights to Bengaluru. Both the services were suspended after the pandemic hit the country. “We have been told that the service provider, in all likelihood, will resume their operations from here by end of this month. Our government has been in touch with the SpiceJet management for the last two to three months,” Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan told The Hindu.  Need for connectivity Mr. Lakshminarayanan, who also holds the Civil Aviation and Tourism portfolios, said he had apprised the Union Civil Aviation Ministry on the need to provide the Union Territory with more air connectivity. In particular, the administration was keen on launching air services from the Union Territory to New Delhi and Kannur and Kozhikode in Kerala, he added. The government had also informed the Civil Aviation Ministry its interest to continue under the Centre’s scheme for a few more years. As for runway expansion, the Minister said the Villupuram District Administration has started a field survey near the airport area to acquire 106 acres of land on the Tamil Nadu side. “For the expansion of the runway, land needs to be acquired on the Tamil Nadu side. They have already started identification of land,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-services-from-puducherry-airport-to-resume-by-month-end/article36923862.ece
10 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||R. Lokeshwaran is new Senior Superintendent of Police||R. Lokeshwaran, an IPS officer belonging to Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and the Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre 2018 batch, has been transferred and posted as Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Law and Order. He was earlier serving as Superintendent of Police (South). SSP Pratiksha Godara IPS (AGMU-2011), who was handling Law & Order, has been transferred to Headquarters. She will also hold additional charge of SSP (Crime and Intelligence), an order issued by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. Deepika, IPS (AGMU- 2018), has been posted as the Superintendent of Police (East) in the place of Rachna Singh. Rachna Singh has been posted as SP (Crime Against Women Cell). Vishnu Kumar, IPS ( AGMU- 2019), has been posted as SP (South). Mahesh Kumar Barnwal has been transferred from Headquarters and posted as Commandant IRBN. S. Bascarane has been given additional charge as SP (Vigilance and Anti-Corruption). The transfer and postings were made after getting clearance from the Puducherry State Election Commission as the Model Code of Conduct is in place for the local bodies poll, the order issued said. Principal Secretary In a separate order, the Chief Secretary said Prashant Goyal, IAS (AGMU-1993), who joined the Union Territory’s administration on October 7, has been posted as the Development Commissioner-cum-Principal Secretary to the Government. Mr. Goyal has been allotted the subjects of Finance, Planning and Research, Economics and Statistics with immediate effect, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/r-lokeshwaran-is-new-ssp/article36923932.ece
10 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Legislators seek L-G’s intervention on poll||A delegation of legislators belonging to several political parties on Saturday sought the intervention of Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan in postponing the local bodies poll. The delegation, led by Speaker R. Selvam, Home Minister A. Namassivayam and Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan, called on the Lt. Governor at Raj Nivas and requested her to prevail upon the State Election Commission to postpone the poll. The delegation told the Lt. Governor that the decision to conduct the poll without reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes was unconstitutional. They also informed the Lt. Governor that the decision to hold the local bodies poll during the festival time was not practical. “If the elections are held against the rules and during festival season, political parties will be compelled to boycott the polls,” they said. Earlier in the day, the Speaker had convened a meeting of all legislators to elicit their views on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governors-intervention-on-local-body-polls-sought/article36923917.ece
10 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records one COVID-19 death||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one COVID-19 death and 84 new cases. An 87-year-old person hailing from Thilaspet succumbed to the virus at the Government Chest Hospital. Of the total new cases detected, 57 are from Puducherry region, 18 from Karaikal, 7 from Mahe and 2 from Yanam. The new cases were detected from screening 4,685 persons, data released by the Health Department revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-one-covid-19-death/article36924234.ece
10 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two-day celebrations on Eden Beach||The Department of Science, Technology and Environment, Tourism Department and Eden Beach Management Committee jointly organised a two-day event at the Eden Beach as part ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations. A painting competition on the theme ‘I am saving my beach,’ was held on Friday. Students from Bharathiar Palkalaikoodam participated in the competition. The works of the students were displayed on the beach for tourists to have a glimpse. Also a sapling plantation exercise and puppet show were held on the same day, an official release here said. On Saturday, a beach yoga and field workshop on beach safety measures and youth beach guards programme were held for students and tourists. The Eden Beach has been recently accorded the coveted Blue Flag Certification by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environment Education. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar inaugurated the events and also distributed prizes to the winners. Secretary, Science Technology and Environment, R. Smitha, Director of Tourism P. Priytarshny and Consultant, Society for Integrated Coastal Management, New Delhi, Vishal Chaudhary participated in the events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-day-celebrations-on-beach/article36923925.ece
10 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||It was incident-free in other districts too||The second phase of polling for the rural civic body in Ramanathapuram district ended on a peaceful note, said Collector (in-charge) A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan on Saturday. The district, which had 40 vacancies in different posts including panchayat ward union member among others, had to conduct polling for eight posts. The 153 polling stations spread across Ramanathapuram Municipality, Paramakudi, Bogalur, Tiruvadanai and Kadaladi, had 65 sensitive stations. About 800 police personnel were positioned in the district. Officials said that from the commencement of polling at 7 a.m., the district witnessed steady polling. The district registered 65.53% voter turnout. The police officers said that there were no untoward incidents and polling ended on a peaceful note. Sivaganga The Sivaganga district witnessed minor issues in Kalayarkoil when some AIADMK and BJP functionaries entered into heated argument with the officials and police demanding re-poll. They claimed that names of 100 voters names were missing in the voter list and insisted that they be given the right to cast their votes. As the officials rejected their demand, they left the polling station. Largely, the polling was hassle-free in the district, officials said. The district registered 65.41% voter turnout. Collector P Madhusudan Reddy visited some polling stations. He said that they had installed 72 CCTV cameras in the locations which were found to be sensitive. The TASMAC outlets were shut on the polling day in 11 panchayat unions excluding Singampunari. Virudhunagar Polling commenced on a brisk note in Virudhunagar district. Collector Meganath Reddy visited a few of the polling stations in Virudhunagar and Sattur municipal limits. Out of 162 polling stations, 34 were identified as sensitive stations. A total of 82,962 voters including 40,059 men, 42,894 women and nine others exercised their franchise. After the polling came to an end at 6 p.m., the boxes were moved to the respective counting centres in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polling-peaceful-in-ramnad/article36923944.ece
10 October 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fishermen stay off the sea||The mechanised boat fishermen abstained from venturing into the sea from Saturday condemning the Union government for not initiating talks with the Sri Lankan government on the immediate need to resolve certain “burning” issues. The fishermen, affiliated to various associations, had assembled here in which a fishermen association leader Sesu Raja addressed the members. The fishermen association leader said that over the last 18 months, citing the COVID-19 pandemic, the fishermen had to stay away from venturing into the sea. The lives of most of the fishermen had been ruined since then. At a time, when the fishermen got back to work, the Sri Lankan Navy personnel had targeted them and chased them away, he pointed out. Under the guise of crossing the IMBL, the Sri Lankan Navy personnel indulged in targeting the fishermen from Tamil Nadu. “The Union government cannot remain a mute spectator to these atrocities...”Mr. Sesu Raja noted and said that they would not venture into the sea till October 15. Moreover, the government had also not responded to their calls to subsidise diesel price, which had touched a new high in the recent days. In a bid to ensure safety and security of the fishermen, Mr Sesu Raja said that they had decided to stay away from the sea. On October 13, the fishermen have also planned to stage a demonstration in the coastal pockets in the district to draw the attention of the governments, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mechanised-boat-fishermen-of-rameswaram-stay-off-sea/article36923934.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Brisk polling in Salem, Namakkal||Salem saw brisk polling for the casual elections held for 24 vacant posts in various local bodies here on Saturday. As many as 195 polling booths were arranged for the elections held for the posts of Ward 10 in district panchayat, Ward 9 in Panamarathupatti union, 10 village panchayat president posts and 12 village panchayat member posts. Of the 35 vacant posts, 11 village panchayat ward members were elected unopposed. Arrangements were made for 1,23,128 voters - 62,974 male, 60,152 female and two transpersons. Of the 195 booths, 58 were identified as vulnerable and 29 micro-observers and 29 video teams were deployed in these booths. For election duty, 780 personnel, six flying squads and 23 zonal teams were deployed and close to 1,000 police personnel were deployed at polling booths. There were no major incidents reported and a case was registered against three persons for picking a quarrel in an inebriated state with a police personnel on election duty at Tholasampatti. Collector S. Karmegham visited the booths in Ayothiyapattinam. At Panamarthupatti, people braved the rain to exercise their franchise. Over 50% of votes were polled by 1 p.m in the district and in the end, 79% polling was recorded. The highest of 88% polling was recorded in Nangavalli block. In Namakkal district, over 80% polling was recorded for the elections held to 15 vacant local body posts. As many as 141 polling stations were arranged for the elections to Ward 6 in district panchayat, Ward 15 in Erumapatty panchayat union, three village panchayat presidents and 10 village panchayat ward members. Though elections were announced for 25 posts, eight village panchayat members and two panchayat presidents were elected unopposed. Collector Shreya P. Singh visited the booths in Vennandhur panchayat union. Arrangements were made for 67,720 voters - 33,188 male, 34,530 female and two transpersons to cast votes. As many as 603 polling personnel were deployed for election duty and close to 500 police personnel were deployed at polling stations. Six COVID-19 positive patients voted at Kabilarmalai block and they were provided with PPE kits. In Krishnagiri, 61.31 % polling was recorded for the elections to one union ward, 3 panchayat president and 9 panchayat ward posts. Of the total 23,535 voters, 14,429 voters cast their votes. Polling was uneventful in all 40 booths. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the booth at Ennekolputhur. In Dharmapuri, 50.26% polling was recorded as of Saturday evening. Notification was issued for 14 posts, of which 10 posts were elected unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brisk-polling-in-salem-namakkal/article36923960.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘More awareness needed on breast cancer’||More awareness is needed about breast cancer and importance of its early detection, Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH), has said. A breast cancer awareness programme was organised at GMKMCH on Friday as part of Pinktober month celebrations. P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, S.R. Rani, Resident Medical Officer, A. Venkatesan from Oncology department and other senior doctors took part in the event. Dr. Valli said that in India, a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer once in four minutes and a woman dies of disease once in 13 minutes. She added that if diagnosed in early stages, breast cancer could be cured. However, most patients turn up when the condition was severe, she said. Tests She added that all tests required to diagnose the disease was available at the hospital and it was covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive health scheme. Dr. Dhanapal said that the hospital has proposed a regional cancer centre with all amenities to handle cases from nine districts, including Salem, Kalakuruchi, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Karur, Erode and other districts. According to the doctors, construction works are progressing for installing LINAC device. Doctors said that between January and September, 241 new breast cancer cases were identified at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-awareness-needed-on-breast-cancer/article36923937.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special train between Chennai and Mangaluru||A fully reserved special train will be operated between Chennai Egmore – Mangaluru Central, a release from Salem Railway Division said. According to a release, train no. 06159 Chennai Egmore – Mangaluru Central daily special train will depart from Chennai Egmore at 11.35 p.m every day from October 17 and it would arrive at Mangalurue Central at 10.15 p.m the next day. Train no. 06160 Mangaluru Central – Chennai Egmore train will depart at 6.45 a.m. every day from October 19 and it would reach Chennai Egmore at 3.35 a.m. the next day. The trains are composed of three AC 3-tier, eight sleeper class, two second class chair car, two general second class among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-between-chennai-and-mangaluru/article36923958.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on COVID-19 vaccination camp||An awareness campaign to increase the public turnout to the fifth mega vaccination camp was held here on Saturday. District Collector S. Karmegham, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, District Revenue Officer V. Allin Sanuja and health officials took part in the campaign organised at the New Bus stand. The officials distributed awareness pamphlets among the public and advised them to go for COVID-19 vaccination. The officials gave pamphlets to bus drivers, conductors and the public and asked them to follow COVID-19 safety protocol. The district administration targets to administer 2.10 lakh vaccine doses through 1,392 camps here on Sunday. In the Corporation limits alone, authorities are targeting to administer 50,000 doses through 200 camps and have deployed 2,500 personnel for the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-covid-19-vaccination-camp/article36923963.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Training for farmers||The Agricultural Technology Management Agency trained farmers from Kookuttapatti on various irrigation techniques. According to a release, 40 farmers underwent the training on drip and sprinkler irrigation and fertigation techniques. The farmers were also trained in better utilisation and maintenance, crop water requirement, acid treatment, automation in drip irrigation and field practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-farmers/article36923957.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife Week celebrated||Visitors to the Kurumbapatti Zoological Park were taken on a nature walk on Saturday as part of the Wildlife Week celebration. The visitors were explained the importance of biodiversity and the life cycle of butterfly by the zoologist at the park. A drawing competition was held for students. An awareness rally was taken out in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocol. Range Officer V.P. Subramaniyam handed over tree saplings to participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-week-celebrated/article36923962.ece
10 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for murder||A 28-year-old man was sentenced to life imprisonment on Friday for murdering a man in 2015. According to the police, Jeevanandham and Kanmani (23), farm workers near Vazhapadi, fought over sharing of wages. They then consumed liquor together. Jeevanandham attacked Kanmani with a stone and killed him on the spot. Vazhapadi police registered a case. On Friday, Principal District Judge S. Kumaraguru sentenced Jeevanandham to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-murder/article36923964.ece
10 October 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||People brave drizzle and wait to vote in Tenkasi||Second phase of polling for electing their representatives for 819 positions in rural civic bodies from 2,643 candidates in the fray was held peacefully on Saturday Election was held in 574 booths in Kadayanallur, Kuruvikulam, Sankarankovil, Shencottai and Tenkasi unions following the completion of the first phase of election on October 6. The district that recorded the poll percentage of 73.95% in the first phase of election held on last Wednesday saw a good turnout despite widespread intermittent drizzle. The district recorded 11.74% poll percentage till 9 a.m. and the voter turnout rose to 26.67% at 11 a.m. The poll percentage that touched 43.51% at 1 p.m. further increased to 57.62% at 3 p.m. In the re-poll conducted in a booth in Sivasailam village panchayat, 80.79% voters cast their votes. Re-poll in this booth was conducted as 45 voters belonging to ward 2 of Sivasailam village panchayat had cast their votes in ward 3. Even as 46 micro observers were constantly watching the polling, six flying squads were on the move till the end of the polling. Electorates waiting to cast their votes in the booths at 6 p.m. were given tokens even as the gates of the polling stations were closed for others. Over 1,700 policemen were deployed across the district during the second phase of the polling in which 4,630 polling personnel were involved. Superintendent of Police R. Krishnaraj visited the sensitive polling stations in Kadayanallur union. Election Observer for the district P. Shankar visited the polling station in Meenakshi Sundaram High School at Idaikaal. In Kanniyakumari district, polling for electing Muttom village panchayat president and 8 village panchayat ward members was held on Saturday. The district, having highest literary rate in Tamil Nadu, recorded the overall poll percentage of just 52.97.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-brave-drizzle-and-wait-to-vote-in-tenkasi/article36924273.ece
10 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Campus recruitment through online mode gains ground||The COVID-19 pandemic-induced online campus selection process is all set to stay for some more period. According to those involved in the exercise of industry-educational institution relationships, the concept of online selection was adopted by a few industrial and business houses last year when the classroom sessions and examinations in the higher education institutions remained suspended for the entire academic year. As the higher educational institutions turned their attention towards online mode of conducting of classroom sessions and examinations, the employers have also opted for the same and recruited the students through online exercise last year.   Artificial intelligence However, from this year, most of the employers have improved their online selection process by adding artificial intelligence component to ensure that the students took up the tests/interviews ethically, said V. Badrinath, Dean, Corporate Relations and Extension Activities, SASTRA, Thanjavur. Stating that some of the IT majors had already tried the online mode of selection of students prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Badrinath said that the students of SASTRA had, as usual, performed well in the online AI-included campus selection process. While a total of 3,554 job offers were presented to the students of SASTRA from 200 recruiters last year, more than 2,000 placement offers have been received so far in the current academic year which commenced in August. Some of the recruiters have also rolled out internship-cum-job offers with stipend during the internship period, he added.  The recruiters have adding artificial intelligence component to ensure the ethics of students V. Badrinath, Dean, SASTRA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-recruitment-through-online-mode-gains-ground/article36923864.ece
10 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Infant rescued in Pattukottai||The infant reported missing from the Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital, Thanjavur on Friday was traced and rescued from the ‘abductor’ at Pattukottai on Saturday. According to police sources, the woman who had abducted the infant from the hospital had committed the crime since she did not have any issues in her married life. As the police traced her with the help of CCTV footage and through interrogation of an Thanjavur-based autorickshaw driver, she confessed to the crime and the infant which was in her possession was rescued by the police on Saturday. While the rescued baby was handed over to her mother Rajalakshmi at the GRMH, the accused, Viji of Pattukottai, has been brought to Thanjavur West police station for further inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infant-rescued-in-pattukottai/article36923802.ece
10 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Documents pledged to get housing loan missing’||The Ammapettai police are investigating a complaint of pledged documents missing from a nationalised bank in Ammapettai. According to R. Senthilkumar, Ammapettai union secretary of Communist Party of India, the complainant, Sherly Annathurai, availed herself a housing loan of Rs. 5 lakh from a nationalised bank branch at Ammapettai on August 23, 2006 afterpledging the documents of an immovable property as a collateral. She had repaid the loan fully in instalments from the date of availing of the loan to the last instalment paid by her a year ago.  Closure certificate Subsequently, she received housing loan closure certificate from the bank branch but not the original documents of the immovable property submitted as collateral by her to the bank. As her frequent visits to the bank branch to get back the pledged documents failed to fructify, Ms. Sherly Sherly Annathuraisubsequently submitted written requests seeking the return of the original documents. Recently she received information from the bank officials that the original documents pledged by her were missing. Hence, Ms. Sherly lodged a complaint in this regard with the Ammapettai police on Saturday, Mr. Senthilkumar said. The police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/original-documents-pledged-to-get-housing-loan-missing/article36923918.ece
10 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Incident-free polling in Theni||Polling for the casual election to the rural civic body held in the district was incident-free, said Collector K. V. Muralidharan on Saturday. The Collector, who inspected a few of the polling stations, told reporters that the polling was largely peaceful. Brisk polling was reported in many of the stations. For the benefit of the voters, the government had declared a public holiday. For maintenance of law and order, the TASMAC outlets in the election areas were closed. From 7 a.m., the polling commenced on a brisk note and a glance at the polling percentage released every two hours showed that the electorate were eager to cast their votes. At the end of polling, 70.93% votes had been cast. In many polling stations, the Collector had to appeal and remind the public to wear their masks properly. In Mayildampurai polling station, the Collector personally distributed masks and urged them to maintain physical distance in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a couple of stations, Mr Muralidharan repeatedly pointed out the consequences of neglecting the SOP issued for COVID-19 and the officials were pulled up for not sensitising the voters. Dindigul Dindigul Collector S. Visakan said that Nilakottai polled 79.7 % votes as on 5 p.m. while in Kodaikanal 53.7 % votes were polled polled. The polling had to be suspended for about 20 minutes at the MVM Girls Higher Secondary School polling station in Chettinaickenpatti as there were some technical reasons in the two wards. Block Development Officer Malaravan and team attended to it and the polling resumed. As voters were given different colour slip to cast their votes manually by affixing seal for different posts, there was a delay. As a result, long queues were witnessed in many polling stations since 11 a.m. At the end of polling, 65.63% votes had been cast in the district. For a total of 28 posts in the rural local body in the district, 15 were elected unopposed after withdrawal of nominations, while polling had to be conducted for 13 different posts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incident-free-polling-in-theni/article36923940.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||UAE gold smuggling case accused released||Sandeep Nair, one of the accused in the politically stormy UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case was released from the Central Prison here on Saturday after his COFEPOSA detention period ended. The National Investigation Agency arrested Sandeep along with prime accused Swapna Suresh from Bengaluru on July 11, 2020. Later, the NIA, Customs, and Enforcement Directorate named him as accused in their cases. He was produced before an NIA court in Kochi on July 12 and remanded in judicial custody. On March 30, 2021, Sandeep got bail from the NIA court in a Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Aact case charged against him. Later, Sandeep became eligible for bail after the Customs failed to charge-sheet him within 90 days of his arrest. Sandeep had made news by complaining in court that the ED had allegedly pressurised him to implicate the State’s top political executive in the smuggling case. The court had recorded his statement in camera. When mobbed by journalists outside the Central Prison here, Sandeep pleaded inability to speak about the case because it was sub-judice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uae-gold-smuggling-case-accused-released/article36923669.ece
10 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Mini marathon held to mark birth anniversary of VOC||A mini marathon was organised here on Saturday to mark the 150th birth anniversary of V. O. Chidambaram. Member of Parliament Kanimozhi flagged off the mini marathon, which was organized by the VOC College here. After starting from the college premises, the participants reached the starting point after traversing through Thamizh Saalai, VOC Road, Old Port, Our Lady of Snows Church, George Road, Head Post Office and South Police Station. Student Pasupathi of St. John’s College, Palayamkottai, Ajith of Loyola College, Chennai, and Navin Prabhu of Sadakkathullah Appa College, Palayamkottai, bagged the first three places in the men’s section. In the women’s section, Aishwarya of Venkateshwarapuram Village Committee School, in Tenkasi district, Radhika of Government Higher Secondary School, Vilaathikulam, and Kokila of Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Nagalaapuram, won the first three places. The winners were honoured with medals, certificates and cash awards. Seeing 14 girl students from Tenkasi participating in the marathon without shoes, Ms. Kanimozhi took them to a nearby footwear showroom and presented them with sports shoes of their choice. Accompanied by Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan, Ms. Kanimozhi visited an old age home where she presented prizes to winners of various competitions organized in view of ‘International Old Age Day’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-marathon-marks-birth-anniversary-of-voc/article36923920.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Barring a dharna, polling peaceful in delta districts||Barring a dharna staged by AIADMK cadre, polling to casual vacancies in rural local bodies passed off peacefully in Tiruchi and other districts in the central region on Saturday. Polling was held for 19 posts in Tiruchi district. Collector S. Sivarasu visited various polling booths in Thuraiyur, Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti and Manapparai panchayat unions. He said that there were no untoward incidents in the district. He checked whether all COVID-19 restrictions were followed in and outside the polling booths. The members of AIADMK staged a dharna in front of a polling booth at Thoppupatti in Vaiyampatti panchayat union, protesting against the entry of a group of DMK men, including Manapparai MLA Abdul Samad and former MLA K. N. Sekaran. The protestors said that the DMK men had intimidated the voters. Except for the authorised agents of the candidates and officials, others could not enter the polling booths. But the DMK entered the booth in a group. Action should be taken against them as it was a clear violation of the code of conduct, they said. The police and election authorities rushed to the spot and held talks following which the protest was withdrawn subsequently. Karur Collector T. Prabu Shankar visited various polling booths in Karur district and monitored the polling process. Elections were held in 78 centres. Election to the eighth ward of the district panchayat was among the local body posts that went to poll on Saturday. At a polling booth at Vellianai, Dr. Shankar checked the process of polling and steps taken to prevent irregularities. Perambalur Elections were held for three ward member posts in Veppanthattai and Veppur in Perambalur district. Brisk polling was reported in the elections. They registered more than 80% polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barring-a-dharna-polling-peaceful-in-delta-districts/article36923928.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||23 dengue cases reported in last 10 days in Tiruchi||Following a sudden increase in dengue cases, authorities concerened have been directed to monitor and trace the source of the infection in hotspots. Areas within city limits and its periphery are where a maximum number of cases are being reported, officials said. Collector S. Sivarasu said that while in October last year, 37 dengue cases were reported, in the last 10 days alone, 23 cases had been reported. Ground-level staff had been instructed to monitor residences in a cycle of seven days and collect samples from water sources. The Collector said that the public must be cautious of places of water stagnation in and around their houses. “People do not clean their terraces and window sills. Similarly, the water collection tray at the back of a refrigerator also needs to be drained regularly,” he said. ‘Clean tanks ‘ In areas where water scarcity is prevalent, people must clean their storage tanks before collecting water in it. He also advised the people to drink boiled water for the next three months. An official of the Directorate of Public Health said that a majority of the cases were within city limits and villages surrounding the city. Four cases were in BHEL Township area and a few others in Thuvakudi. Workers have been deputed to check water samples and also take blood tests, if necessary. “Through this, we can determine if the infections in the hotspot were airborne or vector-borne,” the official said. The official said that the people were not willing to cooperate with the ground-level staff. “In places that received heavy rains, the staff check for water stagnation every day. But the residents protest and prevent them from checking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-dengue-cases-reported-in-last-10-days-in-tiruchi/article36923903.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two road sweeping vehicles to be deployed on Tiruchi roads soon||The Tiruchi Corporation has acquired two road sweeping vehicles at a cost of Rs. 1.73 crore. They are the first vehicles of their kind to be owned by the civic body and have been acquired under the Smart Cities Mission fund. Each vehicle costs Rs. 86.5 lakh. According to sources, each vehicle has a capacity to clean a 16,000 square metre area per hour. On a four-metre-wide road, it can clean four km per hour. If the road is eight meters in width, it can clean two km per hour. In eight hours, it could sweep 32-km length of roads if they were four metres in width. Similarly, eight-metre-wide roads could be swept for 16 km in eight hours. It is expected that the machine will help bring down the huge expenditure on maintaining roads clean and dust-free. Besides sweeping the roads, it collects and removes dust and sand accumulated on the sides of medians and corners. The all-weather vehicle could be operated round the clock. The top-mounted vehicle collects the sand and dust on the road while sweeping the roads. Upon reaching its capacity, the operator moves it to a needy or designated place to offload it. Sources in the Corporation told The Hindu that these vehicles would reduce the dependency of sweepers in cleaning the roads, particularly arterial stretches. Though the vehicles could be used on any road, they would be deployed mainly on roads served by buses. Thillai Nagar Main Road, Shastri Road, Amma Mandapam Road, West Boulevard Road, Bharathidasan Road, Rockins Road, Salai Road and Palakarai Main Road are among the roads to be cleaned by the sweeping vehicles. Better air quality An official said that it would improve the cleanliness of main roads to a great extent. Since the sweeping vehicles collected the roadside sand, it was expected that it would improve the quality of air. Moreover, accidents caused by skidding due to the impact of sand accumulated on the road could also be prevented. The Corporation also acquired 100 battery-operated vehicles for the solid waste management system. They have also been acquired at a cost of Rs. 2.20 crore by sourcing funds from the Smart Cities Mission. The vehicles would have a capacity to carry 500 kg and since they are small in size they can be operated even on lanes and by-lanes to collect garbage from the households, apartments and commercial vehicles. Minister for Municipal Administration K. N. Nehru is expected to flag off the battery-operated vehicles and road sweeping vehicles in a day or two.  For a clean sweep The all-weather vehicle can be operated round the clock It will also collect and remove dust and sand They will reduce dependency on sweepers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-road-sweeping-vehicles-to-be-deployed-on-tiruchi-roads-soon/article36923929.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Daughters pray over mother’s body hoping for return to life||Two women in Manapparai near Tiruchi prayed over their mother’s body, for over four days, hoping she would come back to life. Police attached to the Manapparai station on Saturday recovered the body and buried it in a land belonging to the family in Sokkampatti. The daughters, Jecinthal and Jayanthi, both aged over 40, had been nursing their sick mother, Mary, a 75-year-old retired teacher, at their residence in Sokkampatti. Last week, they brought the mother to a private hospital in Tiruchi city, where the woman was declared dead. “From the city, they brought her body to their house and kept praying. On Friday, we received information and went to their residence,” a police source said. The daughters tried to chase away the policemen, saying that their mother was alive and would soon wake up. “We told them that we were there to help, and if she was alive, they would help get her treated. We called the 108 ambulance service, the staff who came to the spot declared the woman dead,” an officer said. The daughters continued to resist the body being taken to the hospital. Hours later, the body was taken to the Manapparai Government Hospital early Saturday. At the hospital, the daughters continued to argue with doctors and said their mother had just not eaten since the previous night. “The doctors said that the body had been kept for at least four or five days,” the police said. Counselling will be provided to the daughters, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daughters-pray-over-mothers-body-hoping-for-return-to-life/article36923809.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 244 fresh cases and four deaths||The central region reported 244 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The number of cases continued to reflect a downward trend across most districts in the region. Four deaths were reported, two in Tiruvarur district and one each in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur continued to report a dip in the number of cases. On Saturday, 74 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi reported 51 fresh cases, and Tiruvarur, 50. In Nagapattinam, 22 patients reported positive. Pudukottai district registered 15 cases, Karur,14 and Mayiladuthurai, 13. In Ariyalur, three patients tested positive while Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with two fresh cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-244-fresh-cases-and-four-deaths/article36923905.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Job fair for ITI certificate holders tomorrow||A special district-level apprenticeship mela will be organised in the city on October 11 to find placements for candidates who are holding Industrial Training Institute (ITI) certificates. The mela would be held on Tiruchi Government ITI campus and leading private and public sector companies would participate in the mela to hire apprentices. Selected candidates would get stipends ranging from Rs. 7000-Rs. 9,000 a month, Collector S. Sivarasu said. Candidates, who had passed Class VIII, Class X or Plus Two, with ITI certificates, can attend the mela, he said. However, only those candidates who have taken at least the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine would be allowed to participate in the mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-fair-for-iti-certificate-holders-tomorrow/article36923909.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Five-year-old boy dies after consuming nutrient tablets||Parents of a five-year-old boy have registered a complaint with the Edamalaipattipudur police after their son died due to unnatural causes. The boy had reportedly consumed a large number of nutritional supplement tablets. Varshan, son of Suresh and Dhanabakiyam, was playing at home when he saw the tablets and consumed them thinking it was chocolate, police sources said. The boy was rushed to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, from where he was referred to the Institute of Child Health, Chennai. The child died at the ICH and his parents have filed a complaint. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-after-consuming-pills/article36923919.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Monday in the following areas of the district owing to maintenance works to be taken up by the Tangedco: Moovanur, Vengaimandalam, Thaneerpandal, Mela Kannukulam, Keezha Kannukulam, Parvathipuram, Kuruvampatti, Kallur, Veppanthurai, Chozhanganallur, Senthamaraikan, Sirugambur, No1.Kariyamanickam, Sennakarai, Ramagiripatti, Senkudi, Vazhmalpalayam, Chettimangalam, Neiveli, Killiyanallur, Vathalai, V.Maniampatti, Silaiyaathi, Thudaiyur, Pandiyapuram, Sunaippuganallur, Eachampatti, Moovarayampalayam, Koundampatti, Kuruvikarankulam, Kattukulam, Theerampalayam, Thillampatti, Pazhaiyur, Senkuzhipatti, Udaiyampatti, Thirupainjeeli, Thiruvarangapatti, Peramangalam and Pulivalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36923927.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Collector S. Sivarasu has cautioned people against straying into the Veeramalaipalayam shooting range in Manapparai taluk on October 12 and 13 when personnel of the 117 Infantry Battalion (TA), The Guards, are scheduled to train at the range. People are advised not to venture into the range or let out their cattle for grazing between 7.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. on both days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36923906.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 79.47 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 16,659 cusecs and the discharge was 1,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36923908.ece
10 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Polling ends on a peaceful note in Tirunelveli||The district witnessed peaceful second phase polling that was held in 567 booths on Saturday to record a poll percentage of 69.34%. Following the first phase polling conducted on October 6 with 70.36% voter turnout, the second phase election was conducted to elect 629 village panchayat ward members, 88 village panchayat presidents, 60 panchayat union councilors and 6 district panchayat councilors from Nanguneri, Kalakkad, Valliyoor and Radhapuram unions. After recording just 6.59% polling percentage in the first two hours, polling that started at 7 a.m. rose to 22.89% at 11 a.m. and 37.13% at 1 p.m. The voter turnout stood at 50% at 3 p.m. and relatively satisfactory 63.21% at 5 p.m. Speaker M. Appavu, who cast his vote in a polling station at Periyanayagipuram near his native place of Lebbaikudiyiruppu under Kaavalkinaru village panchayat, told the reporters that the voters were enthusiastically exercising their franchise as they were aware that effective administration being ensured at grassroots level in the village panchayats through ballots was the key for creating better infrastructure facilities in rural areas. “The electorates are casting their votes in a poll which is being conducted in a peaceful manner,” Mr. Appavu said. Tension prevailed at Aavaraikulam near Valliyoor, the native place of Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, for a while as he allegedly manhandled BJP worker Bhaskar as the latter reportedly made some defamatory remarks against the former. The BJP cadre took him to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital from where he was discharged within an hour. Former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan, who came to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in the night to meet Mr. Bhaskar, said the police should register case against those who assaulted his party worker. “If not, we’ll start protesting,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, who visited good number of polling stations, said additional police personnel had been deployed in 90 sensitive polling stations even as over 1,500 policemen had been deployed as part of the poll-related security arrangements. In Thoothukudi, election for six village panchayat president vacancies and 16 village panchayat ward members was held. Election Observer C. N. Maheshwaran visited the polling booths in Vaalasamudhram and Kollamparambu village panchayats, both under Ottapidaaram panchayat union. Over 600 policemen were deployed as part of the security arrangements, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polling-ends-on-a-peaceful-note-in-tirunelveli/article36924271.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko not in favour of son’s political entry||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Saturday said he was not in favour of his son Durai Vaiyapuri entering politics. The frail-looking Mr. Vaiko expressed disillusionment over his own 56-year political career, saying, “I have destroyed my life to some extent”. The MDMK leader, however, added that the party’s decision would prevail ultimately. Mr. Vaiyapuri has in recent times been taking part in events organised by the party, indicating about his possible political plunge. As he emerged from the polling station at Kalingapatti, his native place, after casting his vote in the second phase of the rural local body polls, along with his son, Mr. Vaiko told reporters that he did not want to see his son suffering like him. “I struggled for 56 years in politics… I have languished for five-and-a-half years in prison. I have destroyed my life to some extent… my son should not suffer like this,” he said. The leader said the party’s district secretaries’ meet, to be held in Chennai on October 20, would take a final call on giving greater responsibility to Mr. Vaiyapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-not-in-favour-of-sons-political-entry/article36923823.ece
10 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 90 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 721 cusecs and 204.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 65.60 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 90 cusecs and no water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36924275.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife Week celebrated in ATR||Provision kits were distributed to 450 tribal families at the valedictory function of the Wildlife Week celebrations organised by the Tiruppur Forest Division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) at Udumalpet on Saturday. Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth distributed the kits to the families from six tribal settlements and presented certificates to anti-poaching watchers who are engaged in snake rescues. He also gave away prizes to the winners of various competitions held for school children. According to ATR authorities, kits will be distributed to 640 more tribal families from nine more settlements coming under the forest division of the tiger reserve in the coming days. There are 17 settlements in Tiruppur division. The kits were provided by Kumaraguru College of Technology, Coimbatore, and each contains five kg of atta, three kg of rice, three kg of dal, turmeric powder, chilly powder, salt, and cooking oil. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian coordinated the activities through Deputy Director S.N. Thejasvi and Assistant Conservator of Forests K. Ganeshram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-week-celebrated-in-atr/article36923853.ece
10 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon preparedness reviewed||Officials from the Revenue, Public Works, Rural Development and Municipal Administration departments must study and analyse the locations in the district that were affected by floods during monsoons three years ago to prevent damages to the public and livestock, said District Monitoring Officer K. Gopal on Thursday. He chaired a review meeting on the preparedness ahead of Northeast monsoon in the district. A release said that Mr. Gopal directed the officials to ensure desilting of all canals and drains to prevent waterlogging during rains. Teams to rescue public and livestock and required equipment to remove trees or debris must be kept ready. The Health Department was told to ensure medicines stocks Mr. Gopal, who is the Principal Secretary to Government, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, reviewed desilting in Jammanai Odai in the Corporation limits and Chinnamanur Odai in Avinashi. He reviewed the construction of 34 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and a building to house an SHG in Thekkalur near Avinashi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-preparedness-reviewed/article36923841.ece
10 October 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Mobile DPC comes to Tiruvarur||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani flagged off mobile DPC (direct purchase centre) vehicles in Tiruvarur district on Saturday. Paddy procurement through mobile DPCs has been revived by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation in view of the consistent demand for the service from delta farmers. The mobile DPC vehicle would visit villages to collect the paddy bags kept ready by farmers as per the specifications laid down by the Corporation. At present, one vehicle per taluk would be pressed into service in Tiruvarur district which has been divided into eight taluks. In order to avail the facility, farmers who had harvested a minimum of 1,000 bags of paddy should contact the office of the Senior Regional Manager, TNCSC at Tiruvarur or the offices of the Deputy Manager, TNCSC at Tiruvarur or Mannargudi and place their request to avail themselves of the mobile facility, an official said. After flagging off the mobile DPCs on the District Collectorate campus, the Civil Supplies Minister inspected the Corporation’s gunny unit complex at Kachanam in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk where he told reporters that already 265 DPCs were functioning in Tiruvarur district and 19,500 tonnes of paddy had been procured during the current 2021-22 procurement season. Instructions had also been issued to the officials to open DPCs at places from where such requests emerged from farmers, he added. The Minister also inspected a site identified for the construction of a temporary godown at Vandampalayam and Morden Rice Mill at Tiruvarur. Thanjavur Earlier on Friday, Mr. Sakkarapani reviewed the functioning of DPCs in Thanjavur district at the Collectorate and also inspected the functioning of some of the DPCs in Thanjavur, Orathanadu and Papanasam panchayat union areas. Later talking to reporters at Thennamanadu in Orathanadu block, the Food Minister said that as many as 249 DPCs had been opened in Thanjavur district. Nagapattinam Later, after inspecting the DPCs at Thirukuvalai and Neermulai in Nagapattinam district, Mr. Sakkarapani said that about 65,000 tonnes of paddy was expected to be procured through the 85 DPCs across the district. Since money was being disbursed immediately, farmers were keen on selling their produce at the DPCs run by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and the quantum of procurement is expected to exceed the previous year’s achievement, he said. The Collector has sent a detailed report to the TNCSC recommending repairs to DPC buildings damaged in cyclone Gaja and construction of own buildings for 26 DPCs in the district. Farmers have sought the establishment of a rice mill by the TNCSC and provision of paddy driers. The demands would be taken up with the Chief Minister, the Minister assured. The Minister instructed the officials to repair the approach roads to the DPCs in Thirukuvalai and Neermulai. Collector A. Arun Thamburaj and other officials accompanied the Minister.  Farmers with minimum 1,000 bags of paddy can place their request at the TNCSC office at Tiruvarur or Mannargudi Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-dpc-comes-to-tiruvarur/article36923911.ece
10 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department discovers remains of tusker in mine||The remains of a 12-year-old tusker, which died after falling into one of the thousands of illegal mines in Devala, Gudalur, over six months back, was found by Forest Department officials on Saturday. The remains were discovered after the recent rains washed away a layer of soil that had been dumped inside the mine by illegal miners. Local conservationists and Forest Department officials said there were more than 5,000 such illegal mines in the area — an important corridor for wildlife to move between the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Gudalur, Wayanad and Nilambur. “Some mines are more than 45-m deep,” said a senior forest official, previously posted in the Gudalur division. The elephant is believed to have slipped into the mine and survived. However, local miners, who did not wish the incident to be discovered, are believed to have not informed the Forest Department, fearing a clampdown on illegal mining. “The animal died a slow, painful death,” said a local conservationist, who added that the miners possibly covered up the mine to prevent the incident from being noticed by the department. Local officials also confirmed that the probable cause of death was due to the elephant falling inside the mine. A few days ago, an elephant calf had fallen into one of the mines and was rescued by the department, which reunited it with its herd. Conservationists highlighted the fact that many animals, including tigers, elephants and leopards, were potentially at the risk of falling inside mines. When contacted, Shekhar Kumar Niraj, Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu, said the Forest Department was aware of the issue of illegal mining along the crucial wildlife corridor. “We are actively discouraging mining in Devala and its surrounding areas. Mines are permanent scars on the landscape, and are a major threat to the wildlife in the area,” said Mr. Niraj. Mr. Niraj said the corridors would be mapped and mines along them located and steps taken to install barriers to prevent animals from falling victim to them. “We will also look into whether the mines can be filled in,” he added. Forest officials said a post-mortem was conducted on the body and a case had been registered against illegal miners in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-discovers-remains-of-tusker-in-mine/article36923821.ece
10 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 70% polling registered in Vellore||More than 70% of polling was registered in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur in the second phase of the local body election for 2,716 posts on Saturday. The neighbouring Tiruvannamalai district also had its election for 35 vacant local body posts, polling 78.26%. According to district election officials, this was the poll percentage recorded till 5 p.m. Vellore district, with 2,57,298 voters, registered a polling percentage of 72.5% . The district had 469 polling booths in Anaicut, Vellore and Kaniyambadi panchayat unions. Most of Vellore’s hilly tribal areas, such as Alleri, Kurumalai, Palampattu, Peejamandai and Jarthankollai, went to polls on Saturday. “Election officials, who are mostly men, carried ballot papers, masks, hand sanitisers and other polling materials to these remote areas on hillocks,” said K. Aarthy, election officer for tribal areas in Anaicut block. Ranipet, which has 3,68,426 voters, including 1,87,537 women, recorded 75.53% polling in its 757 booths. Of a total 1,469 vacant posts in the second phase of polling, 309 posts were declared as unopposed. The newly-formed Tirupatur district conducted polling for its 631 posts in its two panchayat unions — Madhanur and Alangayam — with 73.48% of votes registered. Many of the total 1,688 polling booths, including 77 booths in Tiruvannamalai, witnessed a steady flow of voters since 8 a.m., with residents waiting in snaking queues to exercise their franchise. Stabbing in Anaicut Meanwhile, a 35-year-old construction worker, S. Venketasan, was stabbed in the polling booth for wards 8 and 9 of Konganallur village panchayat at Anaicut in Vellore on Saturday. “The incident is not related to polling. Special teams were formed to nab the suspect. Adequate police personnel were deployed in the village to prevent any untoward incidents,” S. Selvakumar, SP (Vellore), told The Hindu . In another incident, residents, mostly tribal people, in Nayakkaneri village on the hillock near Ambur in Tirupatur boycotted the election on Saturday. They were protesting against the village being reserved for the Schedules Castes category from its earlier General Category, claiming that a majority of people in the village were Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-70-polling-registered-in-vellore/article36924284.ece
10 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 15 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,526 with 15 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 48,206 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 196. The district's death toll is 1,124. In Ranipet district, 17 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,191. In Tirupattur district, seven new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,126. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 17, taking the total number of cases to 54,542. Out of this, 53,614 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-15-cases/article36924282.ece
10 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Second phase of polling peaceful||The second phase of the rural local bodies poll went off peacefully in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts on Saturday amid tight security. Villupuram district registered an impressive turnout of 70.64% as of 3 p.m. while Kallakurichi district recorded 65.84% polling. The second phase covered 11 panchayat unions — six in Villupuram district and five in Kallakurichi district. As many as 12,019 candidates are in the fray for 3,921 posts in the two districts. Voting began in over 2,300 booths amid tight security. Brisk polling was reported in Villupuram from morning. The district recorded 13.88% by 9 a.m. The percentage went up to 32.41 by 11 a.m. and 70.64% by 3 p.m.  More than 500 voters in Virpattu village in Vallam block boycotted the poll. The villagers hoisted black flags in their houses demanding that Virpattu be declared a separate Panchayat. In Villupuram, the highest voter turnout was witnessed in Mailam panchayat union with 73.85% at 3 p.m. while the lowest was in Kaanai panchayat union with 67.68%. An estimated 65.84% of voters cast their votes till 3 p.m. in the second phase of the rural local bodies pollheld in Kallakurichi district. Polling was peaceful, District Election Officer and Collector P.N. Sridhar said after inspecting the polling stations. Adequate security has been posted at 52 polling booths identified sensitive. The district recorded 12.07% at 9 a.m. The percentage went up to 29.18% at 11 a.m. and 65.84% by 3 p.m. Over 4,000 police personnel were deployed in the two districts to ensure the peaceful conduct of the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-phase-of-polling-peaceful-in-villupuram-and-kallakurichi-districts/article36924236.ece
10 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Polling officer dies of heart attack||A 55-year-old polling officer died after suffering a heart attack ahead of voting in the second phase of rural local bodies poll in Veedur in the early hours of Saturday. The official was identified as Manivasagam of ES Garden in Villupuram. Official sources said Manivasagam, an economics teacher in the Pagandai Government Higher Secondary School was deployed on election duty in Mailam panchayat union. He was stationed at a polling booth in Veedur. He complained of uneasiness on Saturday morning and was rushed to a Primary Health Centre in Pombur where doctors pronounced him dead. Manivasagam and other personnel of the polling team had reached the booth on Friday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polling-officer-dies-of-heart-attack/article36923857.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When the hunter becomes the hunted||On October 1, a tiger mauled a grazer to death at Masinagudi. It was the tiger’s second confirmed kill. It sparked tension among the locals. With the Opposition party stepping in, the situation reached a flashpoint. The locals blocked roads, demanding that the tiger be shot dead. For the tiger had eaten parts of the victim’s body for the first time. Soon, most of the media began branding the animal as a man-eater. It was a surcharged atmosphere at Mudumalai. Soon, Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj issued an order to hunt down the animal. It was immediately construed as an order to shoot the tiger. He had to clarify repeatedly that the hunt order had to be understood in light of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. It meant shooting was the last resort after efforts to tranquillise, restrain and capture the animal failed. To ensure that the tiger is captured alive, he has been leading the operations, involving nearly 100 personnel. As if sensing the dragnet, the tiger, now known as Mudumalai Division Tiger 23 (MDT23), has gone quiet. It has not made any further human kill, as several teams of forest personnel, assisted by technology, are on the look-out for over a week now, at times in heavy rain. “If three persons are killed and eaten, it should be declared a man-eater. Then it should be removed from the jungle,” says A.J.T. Johnsingh, a conservationist and wildlife biologist. For the record, the tiger has not yet been declared a man-eater. The backstory The tiger has killed two persons. It is suspected to have killed two more, and over a dozen head of cattle in the highly conflicting landscape of Gudalur and the Sigur plateau, notorious for illegal resorts. It was in 2010 that MDT23 was first recorded by a camera trap in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR). Bandipur, along with the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and the Nagarhole National Park, provides one of the largest contiguous habitats for the Bengal Tiger in India. It is considered home to a fifth of India’s tiger population. The tiger was subsequently recorded by camera traps in the MTR in 2012. Since then, it is believed to have established a territory encompassing the ranges of Masinagudi, Kargudi, and the MTR. A dominant male, the tiger started cattle-lifting in 2018. It is suspected to have killed four persons in the MTR and the surrounding Gudalur over the last two years. MTR Field Director D. Venkatesh said the tiger could be aged 12-14 and it has marks of injuries, possibly sustained in a territorial fight with another tiger or during a hunt. “A behavioural change has occurred, possibly caused by age or the injuries,” he said. “It is confirmed to have hunted 20 head of cattle in the last two years, all in the areas bordering its territory.” S. Maaran, a herder from the Irula community, notes that local herdsmen were aware of MDT23’s presence in the area for several months. “It is a known cattle-lifter, and we understand the dangers of venturing into the forests. However, grazing the cattle, collecting cow dung and selling it are our only means of livelihood,” he said. Though the ban on cattle-grazing in the core area of the tiger reserve is strictly enforced by the Forest Department, regulating grazing in the buffer zone is more difficult because of the presence of a number of Adivasi hamlets and recent settlers, many of whom own farms in the area, cultivate crops and herd cattle. “This is an important fact,” said N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust. “Many of cattle head being grazed in the buffer zone do not belong to members of the Adivasi communities, who are paid a small fee by the owners to look after their cattle until they reach maturity, and are taken for slaughter.” He said cattle pens should be built for the herders and feed given for free or at a subsidised rate to prevent the cattle from entering tiger habitats, where there is a high chance of problematic human-tiger interactions. Conservationists point to many factors, including the burgeoning tiger population in the Sigur plateau and habitat loss, to explain the increase in problematic interactions between tigers, elephants, and other wildlife and humans. They say the rapid increase in the number of tigers in the landscape, which has better protection now, is another factor to consider. As tigers age, a younger male usually supplants the older tiger, who is pushed into ‘sub-optimal’ habitats with a diminished prey-base. “It is not a coincidence that three of the previous man-eaters in the Nilgiris were all in the fragmented habitats in Gudalur and the upper Nilgiris,” one of them points out. The tiger, though believed to be injured and incapable of hunting, has been using his intelligence and knowledge of the terrain to evade pursuers. On a single night, it entered his home territory at Singara and Masinagudi from Devan Estate at Gudalur — a distance of over 20 kilometres by road — in a few hours. This tiger seems to be highly intelligent as it was not spotted by camera traps for a few days when the intense search began, while other tigers in the region were spotted. “Uncharacteristic of tigers, MDT23 does not seem to be returning to the kills he has made,” said a top Forest Department official, who noted that a buffalo had been killed by a tiger in the territory believed to be currently occupied by MDT23. “After consuming a significant part of the animal, he failed to return to the carcass. Our veterinarians and teams were monitoring the carcass, hoping to tranquillise the tiger, but to no avail.” Challenging terrain Mr. Venkatesh said efforts to capture the tiger had become more complicated as it moved back into his home range in the MTR. “In Gudalur, when we first started our attempts to tranquillise him, we could monitor him as the landscape was one of undulating hills planted with tea. However, once he re-entered the MTR, he has taken cover in the thick undergrowth, and it is becoming extremely hard to spot him.” Further complications include the presence of other tigers in the region. This means Forest Department officials have to compare stripe patterns and known injuries with those of MDT23. K. Kalidasan, president of OSAI, said it was always sad to remove a tiger from its natural habitat. “However, conservation is about the larger picture and ensuring human-animal co-existence.” he noted. “If people continue to feel threatened by the presence of a large wildlife because of this particular tiger, there could be retaliatory actions like poisoning. This is why we need to ensure that the tiger is removed as quickly and safely as possible.” Land use in conflict zone Human-animal co-existence in the Nilgiris has remained tenuous for years. One of the regions with the highest number of problematic interactions between wildlife and humans is Gudalur, where six people have died in elephant attacks this year, besides the killing of a person killed in an attack by MDT23. Local conservationists have been calling for the re-wilding of Section 17 lands notified under the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969. Most of the land at Gudalur once belonged to the Nilambur royal family, who leased it to small landholders. This was to be regularised by the Janmam Estates Act, but cases are pending for over half-a-century. Under Sections 8, 9, and 10, all small land-holders and sub-lessees were supposed to be given title, while under Section 17, the leases of large corporations could be decided on a case-to-case basis by the government, according to Tarsh Thekaekara, founder of the Shola Trust. “The most important broader issue in long-term solutions to negative human-wildlife interactions is the problem of unstable land tenure and widespread encroachment into forestland.” D. Boominathan, Western Ghats (the Nilgiris) landscape co-ordinator for the World Wide Fund for Nature, said drivers of problematic human-animal interactions need to be studied with the use of historical records. “We need to analyse the historical data to detect conflict hotspots to build appropriate mitigation strategies.” B. Ramakrishnan of the Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology at Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam, is studying the ‘vayals’ in the Gudalur landscape. He said a three-month study showed 84 of the 86 ‘vayals’ were being used by elephants, while leopards were seen in 79 and the presence of tigers was noticed in 13. Studies also pointed to a correlation between the number of ‘vayals’ in a forest range and the prevalence of problematic human-elephant interactions. Between 2007 and 2019, 79 human deaths were recorded in the Gudalur division, out of which 22 were recorded in the Cherambadi range, which has the most ‘vayals’ in the landscape. MDT23 remains elusive, lording it over in his home territory, as humans struggle to capture him for weeks in a terrain that seems to favour the animal. Mr. Niraj, the Chief Wildlife Warden, said the strategy to capture the tiger was being evolved on a day-to-day basis, based on the data collected by the Forest Department. “Once it is captured, the tiger will be studied by our experts, and its condition will be assessed. Its health parameters and behaviour will be taken into account before a decision is made on whether the tiger can be relocated or taken into permanent captivity.”  Cattle pens should be built and feed given for free or at a subsidised rate to prevent the cattle from entering tiger habitats N. Sadiq Ali,founder, Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust   Once it is captured, its health parameters and behaviour will be taken into account before a decision is made on whether the tiger can be relocated or taken into permanent captivity Shekhar Kumar NirajChief Wildlife Warden||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-hunter-becomes-the-hunted/article36923808.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||15 employees suspended||Fifteen employees of Tasmac-run IMFL retail outlets have been suspended in Ariyalur district for selling liquor above the stipulated rates. Supervisors and salesmen of Variankaval, Andimadam, Varadharajanpettai and an outlet in Ariyalur were among those suspended. While some of the salesmen were found to have sold the liquor more than the fixed prices, others had possessed cash in excess of sold items when the teams carried out surprise checks, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-employees-suspended/article36923921.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||99 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 99 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 1,02,666. While 102 persons were discharged, 999 persons are under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 676. In Salem, 54 fresh cases were reported, of which 50 cases were indigenous and 12 were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 74 indigenous cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/99-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article36923953.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-fury/article36923632.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 137 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 137 new COVID-19 infections on Saturday. The district had 1,659 active cases of the disease and 181 persons recovered on Saturday. The death toll of the district increased to 2,360 after three more persons died of COVID-19. The district’s test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 1.4 % on Friday when 10,112 swab samples were collected and 140 persons tested positive. A total of 70 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district. The district had 810 active cases of the disease on Saturday and 89 persons recovered. The district’s TPR stood at 1.5 % on Friday. In the Nilgiris, 46 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,068. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 205 while 377 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-137-new-cases/article36923850.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival season begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-season-begins/article36924277.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 25 lakh cast votes in local polls||Polling was also held as part of the by-elections to 424 posts of the rural local bodies in 28 other districts. In Coimbatore, where the by-elections were held for a district panchayat ward member, two village panchayat presidents and 10 village panchayat ward members, 70.85% of 77,104 voters exercised their franchise as of 5 p.m. In the southern region, polling went on without any incident in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, which went to the regular elections, as also in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Dindigul and Theni, all of which had by-elections. In the Gerugambakkam village panchayat in Kancheepuram, a clash broke out between members of the ruling DMK and the AMMK. A similar incident was reported in Sandhaivellur village near Sunguvarchatram, involving supporters of the PMK and the AIADMK. As the police intervened, polling resumed at the two places. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran urged the authorities to act against those responsible for the incident at Gerugumbakkam. Polling was countermanded in a booth at Puducherry near Poonthandalam in the Kundrathur block due to a mix-up in ballot papers. At a booth in the Konganallur village panchayat of the Anaicut panchayat union in Vellore, a 35-year-old construction worker, S. Venketasan, was allegedly stabbed by a 28-year-old person. “The incident is not related to polling,” said S. Selvakumar, SP (Vellore). More than 500 voters at Virpattu in the Vallam block boycotted the elections, demanding that Virpattu be declared a separate village panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-25-lakh-cast-vote-in-rural-local-bodies-polls/article36923824.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||CULTURE  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Infosys Foundation and National College: Navarathri Utsav, fusion bhajan by brahaddwani team, college campus, 6 p.m. GENERAL  Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation: Exhibition-cum-sale of ‘kolu’ dolls, Poompuhar showroom, Singarathope, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article36924300.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pose questions to accused in short and simple sentences’||The High Court of Karnataka has issued guidelines to ensure that the trial courts prepare simple and unambiguous questionnaires while posing questions to the accused to enable them to personally explain circumstances while appearing in the evidences against them under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC). “The questions must be simple and specific to the evidence against the accused. A long string of questions couched in complex sentences must be avoided. Several distinct matters should not be rolled up, and every question must cover a distinct incriminatory evidence,” the High Court said. Circulate a model The High Court also directed the Karnataka Judicial Academy to prepare model questionnaires and circulate it to all trial courts for guidance. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar issued the directions while allowing a petition filed by two accused persons complaining about complexity of questions posed to them by a trial court in Mysuru in a murder case. “Section 313 of Cr.PC embodies the fundamental principle of ‘Audi Alteram Partem’. Since this is the stage where the accused gets an opportunity to explain an inculpatory evidence against him, the questions must be framed in such a manner that he or she understands them,” the High Court made it clear. While questioning the accused, the High Court said, not only the incriminatory oral evidence but also documents and material objects indicating adverse evidence should be brought to the notice of the accused. The High Court said that preparing questionnaires equal to number of accused is not the correct procedure and it is also a waste of time. “It is enough if only one set of questions is prepared, but what is required is to frame distinct questions as against every accused. And if a witness speaks at a time against two or more accused, a single question against them may be framed but their answers must be recorded separately one after another,” the High Court said. The High Court also asked the trial courts to make use of the amendment made to Section 313 of Cr.PC in 2009 permitting the trial judges to take the assistance of public prosecutors and defence counsel in preparing questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pose-questions-to-accused-in-short-and-simple-sentences/article36923760.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Still waiting for shelter||The COVID-19 pandemic exposed just how vulnerable some sections of society are, especially the homeless. With only 14 shelters currently operational, existing infrastructure can support barely 10% of Bengaluru’s homeless population. A random survey by NGOs in the city pegged the number of homeless at around 5,200 in 2018. In a repeat exercise a year later, it was 4,000. In July 2021, the High Court directed the BBMP to establish at least 40 homeless shelters within three months and a total of 84 within six months. So far, only three have come up. The need for more shelters is not being disputed by the palike. BBMP Special Commissioner (Welfare and Administration) Dayanand told The Hindu that it had sent 38 proposals for the construction of new shelters across the city to the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM), which has granted in-principle approval for the same. “While a majority of funding will be from NULM, the BBMP may have to chip in as well,” he said. A senior official also said that the civic body will conduct a third-party survey to ensure that locations of the new shelters are feasible. “The third-party survey is important to ensure that the shelters are accessible to the homeless. There is no point in setting up shelters in locations where the number of homeless is less,” the official said, and added that directions in this regard had already been given to the zonal joint commissioners. However, the surveys are yet to be taken up, the official claimed. This year, several organisations are pressing for the establishment of more shelters, apart from implementation of guidelines for urban homeless drawn up under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihoods Mission. H.T. Ramachandrappa, secretary, Impact India Consortium, a network of 40 NGOs, pointed out that along with setting up more shelters, ensuring rights of the homeless was just as important. “Many NULM guidelines were yet to be implemented, such as the constitution of the Executive Committee under the chairmanship of the BBMP Commissioner, offering rehabilitative services, dedicated shelters for the homeless who are senior citizens, sick and mentally ill,” he said. Dr. Ramachandrappa, who is also the project manager of Nammane, said state government should also declare October 10 as Homeless Day, apart from coming out with SOPs for running shelters and establishing systems. There was a need for an all-inclusive policy on urban homeless. Several NGOs working for the homeless across the country have together drafted the National Policy for the Urban Homeless – 2021, which will soon be submitted to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/still-waiting-for-shelter/article36923741.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minority votes: Will squabbles between JD(S), Cong. help BJP?||Frequent squabbles between the Opposition Congress and the JD(S), which had formed a coalition government three years ago, seems to be advantageous for the ruling BJP in the bypolls to the two State Assembly constituencies of Hangal and Sindgi on October 30. Leaders of both Opposition parties not only indulged in verbal duels in the just-concluded legislature session but also outside. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy’s outburst every now and then against Congress leader Siddaramaiah for the latter’s alleged lack of support during the coalition government has not gone down well with the loyalists of the latter. On the other hand, the JD(S) is miffed over KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s strategy of wooing its MLAs and leaders into Congress. Another bone of contention has been the JD(S) decision to field candidates belonging to the minority community for both bypoll seats. The Congress leaders accuse the JD(S) of trying to divide the minority votes, thereby helping the BJP, a charge denied by Mr. Kumaraswamy. Split of minority votes could harm the electoral prospects of the Congress. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s outbursts against the RSS is also seen by the Congress as aimed at drawing minority votes. The BJP is expected to strongly counter the criticism mounted on the RSS by both the Opposition parties to draw majority community voters. Polarisation of votes on community lines will ensure an upper hand to the BJP even before commencement of campaign. No sign of unity Experts say that unity among the Congress and the JD(S) could have projected them as a credible and viable alternative to the BJP, which is facing flak on multiple fronts, including the farmers’ protests. A perception of Opposition unity could contribute to a large swing of votes away from the ruling BJP. Fielding of candidates by all three major parties would lead to splitting of votes, particularly minorities, which could benefit the ruling BJP. In Sindgi, the Congress has fielded Ashok Managuli, son of late MLA M.C. Managuli, who was with the JD(S). In Hangal, the party has fielded Srinivas V. Mane, who lost by 6,500 votes to the late C.M. Udasi of the BJP in 2018. Manohar Tahsildar, former MLA, too was an aspirant. The ruling BJP has fielded Shivaraj Sajjanar in Hangal, belying expectations of Udasi’s daughter-in-law being picked, and Ramesh Bhusanur in Sindgi. The JD(S) has fielded Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindgi and Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. In a three-cornered contest, voters might throw their weight behind the ruling party, particularly in the bypolls, and this was the case in several constituencies that went to bypolls in the State in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minority-votes-will-squabbles-between-jds-cong-help-bjp/article36923763.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Largest’ residential rooftop solar power plant commissioned||A rooftop solar power plant, touted as ‘the largest’ for a residential apartment complex in the country, was inaugurated in the city on Saturday. Enphase Energy announced the installation of the 354.4KW plant over 13 residential high-rise buildings at the Brigade Gateway Apartment Complex here. “This is the largest rooftop solar power plant for a residential apartment complex in India, that enables residents to save up to 69% of their present estimated consumption, while also helping save carbon emission of up to 530 tonnes annually,” a release said. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister of Higher Education, IT and BT, Science and Technology, inaugurated the installation. About 19,300 sq.ft. is covered by the solar panels, and 4,78,440 units of power is estimated annually for common area, benefiting 1,255 apartments in the complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/largest-residential-rooftop-solar-power-plant-commissioned/article36923746.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Taxi driver files plaint against online gaming platform||A taxi driver from Nagarabhavi has filed a complaint against an online gaming company and its founder-directors for allegedly running a hugely popular fantasy sports platform despite the recent ban. In his complaint, Manjunath, 42, said that the company is profiteering from people losing money while betting online. Based on the complaint filed on Thursday, the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police registered a case against the founders and directors of the firm, charging them under Sections 79 and 80 (running, permitting or furnishing money for the purpose of gaming) of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963. Mr. Manjunath told the police that after reading media reports on the ban, he scanned Play Store and the Internet to see how many online gaming sites had shut down. He alleged that while many firms had blocked their apps so that they could not be used, there was an exception, Dream 11, a fantasy sports platform. It allowed players to create their fantasy teams in sports ranging from cricket to kabbadi based on a real-life matches to score maximum points and win cash prizes, he said in his complaint. “Lots of players have already won big prizes on Dream11 and the company is hosting different kinds of cash contests, each with its own entry fee and prize money,” he alleged. The police said they would issue a notice to the firm hosting Dream 11 as part of their probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taxi-driver-files-plaint-against-online-gaming-platform/article36923739.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS to launch MindNotes app||To mark World Mental Health Day, observed on October 10, NIMHANS has organised a series of events designed to educate, encourage and support positive mental health and well-being. The theme this year is ‘Mental health care for all: Let’s make it a reality’. NIMHANS has come up with MindNotes app to help individuals who may be experiencing distress/common mental health concerns but are unsure about seeking professional help. It has been developed by a team of mental health professionals from the Department of Clinical Psychology and Centre for Public Health at NIMHANS, and International Institute of Information Technology, Bengaluru, in collaboration with and funding from Microsoft Research India. The app will be made available on Play Store for controlled release/early access and testing on October 10 and subsequently will be accessible for free after six weeks. Space for youth Besides, a forum for mental health will be launched to provide a safe space for youth to anonymously share their thoughts, feelings and concerns impacting on their mental well-being and receive support from trained peer-volunteers. A music video Tumhi Saath Rehna Mere in Hindi, a collaborative initiative between NIMHANS and ‘From Mug To Mike’, for the cause of mental health will be released on the occasion. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and State Health Minister K. Sudhakar will launch the initiatives. Anti-tobacco campaign A nationwide campaign titled ‘Quit Tobacco, be a Hero’, will be launched by NIMHANS in association with the World Health Organization (India Office). It provides a platform for tobacco users to share their narratives of quitting or attempting to quit through a self-made video. It motivates people to share their quit stories in the form of short videos (90 seconds) on the dedicated website https://www.commit2quittobacco.in The best five videos, picked by a panel of experts, will be awarded prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-to-launch-mindnotes-app/article36923747.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five-day vacation for Bengaluru Bench of CAT||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Bengaluru Bench, will be on vacation for five days from October 11. The filing counter of the registry will remain open from 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. during the period and will receive only urgent applications. Vacation Bench will be held through videoconference on October 13 at 11.30 a.m. to dispose of urgent matters and others as the Bench may direct, a release said. Rakesh Kumar Gupta, Administrative Member, will be the Vacation Judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-day-vacation-for-bengaluru-bench-of-cat/article36923758.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘We don’t hijack candidates’||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday said that the Congress only “welcomes leaders who voluntarily accept the ideals of the party, and has no need to hijack candidates”. He was rebutting JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy’s tweets criticising him for his “lies” about the late M.C. Managuli, whose son is now the Congress candidate in the bypolls. Mr. Kumaraswamy had rubbished Mr. Shivakumar’s claim that Managuli, 15 days before his death, asked the Congress leader to induct his son into the party. Mr. Shivakumar said his mention of 15 days was an approximation. “The party has enough strength to field its own candidates,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-dont-hijack-candidates/article36923762.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Silt causing waterlogging||The accumulation of silt in the three cross culverts under the Domlur flyover (leading to Ejipura) is said to be the main reason for waterlogging in the area. On Saturday, Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, BBMP, directed jurisdictional officials to clear the silt and remodel the drain. He reviewed development works in Domlur and surrounding areas. This included white-topping work taken up on the 2.15-km road from Domlur to Ejipura Junction at a cost of Rs. 23.41 crore. Around 60% is done. The work was taken up in June. Lokesh, BBMP chief engineer (projects), said once the work on the cross culverts is completed, the white topping work would be done. Mr. Gupta directed officials to also fill potholes on all roads in Domlur ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silt-causing-waterlogging/article36923736.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka sees 451 new cases, nine deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 451 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,80,621. With nine deaths, the toll rose to 37,875. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Bengaluru Urban reported 187 and three deaths. As many as 1,455 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,32,322. The State now has 10,395 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.37%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.99%. Testing As many as 1,20,045 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 94,506 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests conducted rose to 4,86,74,279. COVID-19 compensation The BBMP has invited applications from the legal heirs of those who succumbed to COVID-19. While those in the BPL category will be eligible for Rs. 1.5 lakh compensation, others will be eligible for Rs. 50,000. A press release here on Saturday said applications may be submitted to the jurisdictional revenue officials in the wards with the following documents: COVID-19 positive report, BU number, death certificate, Aadhaar or other ID proof of the deceased, BPL card of the deceased (if applicable), bank/post office pass book, no objection letter from other members of the family if the applicant is not the wife/husband of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-451-new-cases-nine-deaths/article36923748.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Boy drowns||An eight-year-old boy who was playing in Kempegowda park in Mallasandra drowned when he fell into a pond, on October 8 afternoon. The pond had filled up with rainwater and residents alleged that there was no fencing or barricade around it. Pratap, the son of a garment factory worker, while playing with friends, reportedly slipped and fell into the pond. The other children rushed to get help. People in the area alerted the Bagalgunte police. The police, with the help of Fire and Emergency Services personnel, recovered the body later. Residents have blamed civic agencies for the lack of measures to prevent such accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-drowns/article36923750.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers fume over flight delay||Many passengers at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) vented their ire on social media against a Go First (G8 973) flight claiming that it had been delayed for 10 hours. One Twitter user posted photos and video clips of passengers gathered outside the gate demanding answers. “Poor passengers are waiting hours after haggling,” he said in the tweet. In response, Go First tweeted, “We are sorry for the inconvenience caused. We request you to share your PNR number along with your contact number and email ID via DM so that we can connect with you.” Despite repeated attempts, calls to Go First went unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passengers-fume-over-flight-delay/article36923751.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LPG deliveryman catches thief after 2 km chase||An LPG cylinder deliveryman, who witnessed a thief assaulting a woman and stealing her gold chain, chased the man on foot for 2 km before catching him and handing him over to the cops. The incident took place in Chikkabanavara on Friday evening. The victim, Pushpa, 32, was walking home from a temple with her one-year old, when the thief – later identified as Keshav, 24, – confronted her. He snatched her chain worth around Rs. 40,000. When she tried to resist, he shoved her and her baby onto the ground and tried to run away. Rudresh, who was delivering LPG cylinders in the area, chased him on foot for 2 km before pinning him down. Keshav attacked him, but he managed to hand him over to the police who arrived shortly after.  Dharmeder Kumar Meena, DCP (North) said the accused was arrested and remanded into judicial custody. He added that Rudresh would be rewarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lpg-deliveryman-catches-thief-after-2-km-chase/article36923742.ece
10 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yettinahole work slow, says HDK||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has said the cost of the Yettinahole project had gone up to Rs. 24,000 crore from the initial estimation of Rs. 8,000 crore. It could go up further, considering the way the present government is functioning, he said at Sakleshpur on Saturday. Mr. Kumaraswamy spoke to presspersons before visiting the project sites in Sakleshpur taluk. The project was started assuring water for the people of Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts. Siddaramaiah, during his tenure as Chief Minister, had said the people would get water within three years. So far the promise had not been fulfilled. “How long can you fool the people of those districts? People will not believe your lies for long”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yettinahole-work-slow-says-hdk/article36924186.ece
10 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Jobs planned for KSRDPRU graduates in RDPR Dept.||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) K.S. Eshwarappa has said that steps will be taken to provide employment opportunities to the graduates of RDPR University in the RDPR Department by constituting a committee to suggest means to facilitate the same. He was speaking after dedicating ‘Kaushalya Vikas Bhavan’, hostel and other buildings at the Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University (KSRDPRU) at Nagavi in Gadag district on Saturday. The Minister said steps would also be taken to regularise the services of the teaching staff of the university. “The KSRDPRU is different from other universities and steps will be taken to put into practice Gandhiji’s idea of gram swaraj through the university. And it is also the first university which had incorporated five new degrees as per the National Education Policy-2020,” he said. Assistance promised Mr. Eshwarappa said the university which was working towards facilitating overall development of villages should also nurture the spirit of nationality. The Minister said all necessary assistance would be extended to the university for becoming a unique university of rural development at the global level. Public Works Minister C.C. Patil said the universities like KSRDPRU had a greater role to play to realise the dream of gram swaraj of Mahatma Gandhi. The students of these universities should take up initiatives that would facilitate the true development of villages, he said. MLA and former Minister H.K. Patil said it was heartening to note that the university had set up a replica of Sabarmati Ashrama on the university campus and it was inaugurated on the day which marked the completion of 100 years of Gandhiji’s visit to Gadag. On the occasion, MLA Kalakappa Bandi launched the diploma programme on ‘Gandhiji’s views and works’ while MLC S.V. Sankanur released the magazine ‘Gramodaya’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jobs-planned-for-ksrdpru-graduates-in-rdpr-dept/article36923975.ece
10 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pushpavati Nayak and Preeti Kamat bag 9 gold medals each||Students of Mass Communication and Journalism Pushpavati Nayak and Preeti Kamat who have bagged nine gold medals each were presented the same at the 70th and 71st convocation of the Karnatak University held in Dharwad on Saturday. While the convocation address was delivered virtually on Friday, the gold medal presentation programme was held offline on Saturday. Among the doctoral candidates, Laxmi Doddgoudar of the Department of Kannada Studies also secured nine gold medals. Janhvi Joshi of the Chemistry Department, Shahin C. of the Zoology Department and Vijaykumar Kharoshi and Chandralekha V. of the Biochemistry Department secured eight gold medals each. In all, 451 gold medals, 81 cash awards, and 147 scholarships were presented during the offline convocation held on Saturday. Because of COVID-19 restrictions, the university had not conducted the annual convocation for two years. In all, 31,694 candidates received various degrees, 8,733 postgraduate degree, and 311 candidates received doctoral degrees. Speaking at the medal presentation ceremony, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, M.B. Chetti called on the students to imbibe moral values and also be committed in their efforts if they were to reach their goals. “A life can be successful only if it has values and returns something valuable to society,” he said. Prof. Chetti said that the need of the hour was to upgrade the quality of education. He said that NEP-2020 had been introduced to make the country’s students compete globally. Although the country had over 1,000 universities and 50,000 degree colleges, none of them had found a place among the top institutes in the world, he said, emphasising the need to think seriously over the issue. Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.B. Gudasi and other were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pushpavati-nayak-and-preeti-kamat-bag-9-gold-medals-each/article36923976.ece
10 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sacking of 497 BU employees condemned||Taking exception to the sacking 497 temporary, casual, contract, and outsourced employees by Bangalore University authorities, M.B. Sajjan, general secretary of the All India University Employees’ Confederation, said the university’s action was driven by the National Education Policy – 2020. “Sacking the employees without even giving notices to them is a unilateral and draconian action which will lead to the pauperisation of hundreds of families dependent on the university. This is the first of its kind in the history of Karnataka State universities. Such action on employees is the outcome of the implementation of the National Education Policy - 2020 which is designed to weaken the public-funded educational institutions and pave the way for privatisation of education,” Mr. Sajjan said in a release on Saturday. He said the employees of the university had had an emergency meeting and decided to launch an indefinite agitation demanding the university to withdraw its decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sacking-of-497-bu-employees-condemned/article36923978.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to sign MoU with Gujarat for training police in cybercrime probe||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Saturday that the State Government would sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Gujarat Government on strengthening the cybercrime investigation in Karnataka. After inaugurating the police quarters for 56 families in Udupi, the Home Minister said as per the MoU, some police personnel from Karnataka would be sent for training in Gujarat. With the information technology growing, the police also require advanced training to deal with cybercrimes. The government would strengthen the forensic science laboratories in the State by recruiting the required staff, he said. Mr. Jnanendra said the government would construct 10,000 houses to police personnel in the State under its ‘Gruha: 2025’ scheme. In addition, it would construct own buildings for 100 police stations at an estimated cost of Rs. 200 crore in a year. Such police stations are presently housed in rented buildings. The construction of own buildings had begun and foundation stones for building five such stations were laid in Hubballi recently. Once the 100 buildings were completed, only 13 stations would be left without their own buildings in the State. Those stations would also get own buildings later. He said that 140 police stations in the State headed by police sub-inspectors had been upgraded and they were now being headed by police inspectors. The Home Minister reiterated that the State would have “scene of crime officers” soon. Those officials would be specialised in identification, collection, and preservation of evidence at the scene of crime. 112 helpline Asking people to make best use of 112 helpline number, the Home Minister said that people should alert the police by informing about drug trafficking and drug abuse cases. The police alone cannot prevent drug trafficking and its use. He said the government had sanctioned an own building for Hebri police station in Udupi district. Later, to a question by presspersons, the Home Minister said talks with the Union Government were on to open a unit of the National Investigation Agency in Mangaluru.He said that more number of postgraduates and engineering graduates were now joining the police force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-sign-mou-with-gujarat-for-training-police-in-cybercrime-probe/article36924169.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 restrictions further relaxed in Udupi district||The Udupidistrict administration on Saturday relaxed COVID-19 containment measures including opening of pubs, cinema halls and other auditorium to their full capacity, among others. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate M. Kurma Rao in his order said the containment measures were being revised as the COVID-19 positivity rate in the district had come down below 1%. While night curfew would continue to be in force between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., pubs are allowed to open by following standard operating protocol. Cinemas, theatres, and other auditorium can function to their full capacity following the SOP and entry to these places should be allowed to people who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. Thermal screening, provision for sanitiser, regular cleaning of rest rooms etc., should be undertaken. Physical classes Physical classes for students from standard VI to XII may be conducted on five days of the week with the two-day weekend being used for intensive sanitisation of the premises. Swimming pools, stadiums etc., may be opened only for training purpose without any audience. All social, political, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious, and other public programmes and public congregations are prohibited. Marriages and other family programmes are allowed in halls to their 50% capacity with a ceiling of 400 guests. Organisers should inform jurisdictional tahsildars about these events and obtain passes for guests. While all religious places are allowed to be functional, fairs, utsavas, festivals, processions, and other congregations are prohibited. Amusement parks are allowed to function; but no water sports activities are permitted. Public transport vehicles could operate to their full seating capacity. Students from Kerala should enter the district with RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours, remain in seven day institutional quarantine, and undergo fresh test later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-restrictions-further-relaxed-in-udupi-district/article36924167.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||HJV activists protest outside Kundapur police station||A group of Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV)activists staged a protest in front of Kundapur police station in Udupi district on Friday night alleging that the sub- inspector of police had assaulted HJV activists who had been summoned to the station for interrogation. They withdrew the protest after Kundapur Deputy Superintendent of Police Srikanth, who arrived at the station, told them to file a written complaint. If the allegation was found to be true, a case would be registered against the sub-inspector, he told the protesters. The sub-inspector, Sadashiva Gavaroji, denied that he had assaulted the activists and said he had only interrogated them in connection with an incident. The HJV activists gathered in front of the station at about 8.30 p.m. and staged the protest for about one-and-a-half hours. Sources said the incident pertained to a rift between two groups of students in a college in Kundapur.Hence the police had summoned both the groups to the station. Of them, some students of a group were said to be having leanings towards the HJV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hjv-activists-protest-outside-kundapur-police-station/article36924177.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||48 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 27 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 73 patients being discharged, the active cases stood at 529. The test positivity rate stood at 0.31%. Udupi district reported 21 new cases. With 13 patients getting discharged, the active cases were at 84.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/48-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article36924173.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Khader urges educationists to deliberate upon NEP||U.T. Khader, MLA, on Friday urged educationists to deliberate upon the National Education Policy (NEP) and come out with recommendations to the government. At the inauguration of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara School at Ashoknagar, Mr. Khader said education stalwarts such as D. Veerendra Heggade, Nitte Vinay Hegde, and M.B. Puranik should discuss the pros and cons of the NEP. This was necessary when there was serious debate about the policy, he said. Mr. Khader congratulated Sri Kshetra for opening the new and its first school, thereby strengthening the basic education facility in the region. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty said the NEP develops critical thinking and decision making among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khader-urges-educationists-to-deliberate-upon-nep/article36924165.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Diesel price crosses Rs. 100 a litre in Sirsi||Diesel price crossed Rs. 100 a litre in Uttara Kannada on Saturday. The price of diesel in Sirsi hovered between Rs. 100.06 and Rs. 100.12 a litre. While petrol in the town cost Rs. 109.64 a litre. However, the price of diesel in Karwar stood at Rs. 99.79 a litre and the petrol cost was Rs. 109.30 a litre in the town. Petroleum dealers said the diesel price was likely to cross Rs. 100 a litre in Karwar next week. Increased transportation cost from Mangaluru to other places was adding to the increase in fuel prices, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diesel-price-crosses-rs-100-a-litre-in-sirsi/article36924174.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Forum rues shortage of CNG for vehicles||The Dakshina Kannada district CNG Consumers Forum on Saturday said consumers of compressed natural gas (CNG) for their vehicles were bogged down by the shortage of fuel because of lack of infrastructure at dispensation stations. Forum founding president Srinath told reporters here that GAIL Gas Ltd. had commenced CNG supply to vehicles after completion of the Kochi–Mangaluru pipeline. CNG was made available at existing fuel stations of public sector oil marketing companies at Kavoor, Adyar, and Surathkal. However, except Kavoor, CNG was not being sold in other stations because of lack of infrastructure. Many people had switched over to CNG as it was cheaper than petrol and diesel and many were going for retro-fitment of CNG kits. Since there was short supply of CNG for vehicles, it was advisable for people to postpone their plans to convert their vehicles to run on CNG till GAIL Gas ensures adequate supply, he said. Jayaram Shetty from CNG Autorickshaw Drivers Union said many drivers had bought autorickshaws run on CNG because it was cheaper and offered good mileage. However, they were made to wait for hours together at CNG stations. Forum member Poornima Bhat said there were about 60 CNG autorickshaws and 15 goods vehicles in Mangaluru. Other than these vehicles, CNG trucks from outstations fill the fuel at Kavoor fuel station, thereby adding to the scarcity, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forum-rues-shortage-of-cng-for-vehicles/article36924166.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Music festival on October 17||The Guruparampara Sangeetha Sabha, Kundapur, in association with G.B. Joshi Memorial Trust, Dharwad, and Kshamatha, Hubballi, has organised ‘Bhimapalas’, the birth centenary music festival in memory of Pandit Bhimsen Joshi in Kundapur on October 17. Pandit Ganapath Bhat Hasanagi and Satish Bhat Malakoppa would render vocal concert from 5.30 p.m. at R.N. Shetty Auditorium, Bhandarkars Arts and Science College, Kundapur. Following of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour for guests is compulsory. The programme could also be watched live onwww.youtube.com/vividli pi/live, said a communique from the sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-festival-on-october-17/article36924168.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Keep a vigil on suspicious newcomers’||The Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Saturday asked police to identify suspicious newcomers in their respective station jurisdictions and added that infiltration from Bangladesh was a challenge in the State. At a function organised to inaugurate police staff quarters in Udupi, the Minister said the police should prepare a list of suspicious people who would have arrived in their jurisdiction. There were chances of conspirators wooing such infiltrators by getting them ration and Aadhar cards. Hence it was a question of national security, the Minister said. The police were also investigating the satellite calls made from the State’s forest regions. A Central Government team was in touch with the State police after such satellite calls were ascertained, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keep-a-vigil-on-suspicious-newcomers/article36924176.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Aster Labs, the diagnostic wing of Aster DM Healthcare, has opened its pathology laboratory at Guru Deep House, Kadri, in the city. If offers more than 2,500 tests ranging from the routine to specialised tests. In addition to routine tests, it conducts advanced tests pertaining to biochemistry, haematology, microbiology, clinical pathology, histopathology, cytogenetics, molecular diagnostics, and flow cytometry, stated a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36924172.ece
10 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Anxious moments during Srirangapatna Dasara fete||There were anxious moments at Srirangapatna Dasara which got underway on Saturday when crackers were burst close to elephant Gopalaswamy who panicked and swerved to his sides, sending people in the vicinity scampering for cover. Elephants Gopalaswamy and Kaveri were sent to Srirangapatna from Mysuru for the annual Dasara festival and it only entailed prayers and showering of petals to the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari. The 3-day festival was inaugurated by Sri Nirmalananda Swamiji of Adichunchanagiri Mutt. Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Karikalan said that elephants role was restricted to offering salute to the deity and showering of petals. The wooden howdah which is used for practice for the Vijayadashmi procession in Mysuru was also sent to Srirangapatna to place the procession idol in it and hoist it on the elephant. Things went smoothly and during the conclusion someone in the crowd burst crackers and Gopalaswamy who was nearby panicked. However, the mahout and assistant not only controlled the elephant but also calmed it. Elephant Kaveri also reacted in a similar manner but within seconds was brought under control by the mahout. The deity was then shifted to a chariot and the procession was completed but Mr. Karikalan said that there was no permission to use the elephants in the procession. There was a huge crowd surrounding the elephants accompanied by cacophony of noise, whistling and cheering adding to stress which was capped by the bursting of crackers. It was sheer providence that nobody was injured though a sizeable number of people were in close proximity to the elephants and could have been trampled. Caution Senior officials said the incident should serve as a caution to the general public not to get close to the elephants as their behaviour cannot be predicted. Though Gopalaswamy has been participating in Dasara since many years, has withstood the booming sound of cannons fired during rehearsal at Mysuru and is accustomed to noise, his response to the bursting of crackers was impulsive. Though precautions are taken during the Jamboo Savari in Mysuru to ensure that there is no congregation of crowd close to the elephants, the incident will serve to ensure that more strict measures are in place, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anxious-moments-during-srirangapatna-dasara-fete/article36923753.ece
10 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||On demand, Dasara illumination extended till 10.30 p.m.||The Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC), Mysuru has extended the duration of Dasara illumination till 10.30 p.m. from Saturday. Since the start of Dasara festivities on Thursday, the duration of illumination was between 6.30 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. However, with overwhelming response from the locals and tourists for watching the illumination, the duration has been extended by an hour to facilitate everyone to experience the distinctive lighting marking the low-key celebrations. The arterial roads in the central business district have been witnessing heavy traffic since the start of festivities with a large number of people turning up to glimpse the illumination. In order to minimise the congestion, the CESC decided to extend the duration by an hour – 6.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. The people can plan their city tour instead of converging on the roads all at a time causing traffic jams. On the day of Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami, the illumination will remain till 11 p.m. CESC Managing Director Jayavibhavaswamy said the illumination has been done in a radius of 102.9 km with impressive lights decorated around 40 circles, besides the illuminated insignias of eminent personalities and the State’s major landmarks at key locations. The roads in the city are getting choked, especially those around the palace, in view of illumination. Many had to return home disappointed over not experiencing the illumination as the lights were switched off after 9.30 p.m. The feedback prompted the CESC to extend the illumination duration.  Police personnel had a tough time controlling crowds as people were getting close to the illuminated areas for selfies. Vehicles parked close to the junctions for selfies caused traffic disruptions. Another highlight is the light park set up at the Millennium Circle. Images of birds, butterflies, animals illuminated in different hues have come up. The javelin throwing illuminated image of Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra is another highlight that has been installed at the Ekalavya Circle near Maharaja College grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-demand-dasara-illumination-extended-till-1030-pm/article36924195.ece
10 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rail museum a great draw||The Rail Museum, which will be illuminated daily till October 15 to mark Dasara, is drawing good response from the public. The exhibition, which is normally closed to visitors after 6 p.m., is being kept open till 8 p.m. so as to enable the public to visit the place and view the exhibits at night. All the outdoor exhibits such as vintage steam locomotives, coaches, inspection carriages, goods wagons, crane, and toy train have been illuminated and provides a new experience for the visitors. The rail museum was out of the itinerary of most tourists and even local people till it was restored in March 2020 at a cost of nearly Rs. 9 crore and thrown open to the public. But soon after, it had to be shut due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. However, the major renovation of the museum has resulted in an increase in the number of visitors. The authorities hope to have more number of visitors from this weekend and the ensuing festival holidays. On Friday, almost 1,000 people visited the museum of which at least half turned up after sunset. “If not for the overcast sky the turnout would have been larger and we expect the numbers to go up in the days ahead’’, said the authorities manning the museum . The redesigned museum with its contemporary design blends the with the railway heritage and the exhibits have been restored by experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-museum-a-great-draw/article36924190.ece
10 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Therapy park for children with communication disorders||The All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru, has developed an inclusive therapy park, which, according to the institute, is one of its kind for children with communication disorders, including wheelchair users. The park is designed keeping the barrier-free model in mind, making it accessible to all individuals, irrespective of their abilities. It provides an inclusive environment for children with special needs and facilitates their independent play skills. Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare, inaugurated the facility in the presence of Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, AIISH Director M. Pushpavathi and others. The park houses several adapted play equipment including wheel-chair-enabled swing and merry-go-round, mother- and child-friendly see-saw, tyre and rope climbers, tyre tunnels and crawlers, and mini- and multi-play stations. The swing and merry-go-round have been fitted with safe seats to make children without upper body support feel secure, a release from AIISH said. The existing parks outside the AIISH campus here are mostly meant for typically developing children and are not easily accessible for children with special needs, especially cerebral palsy. Funds were provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and the Mysore City Corporation. Experts at the AIISH said the park would foster physical development which is key for the growth, coordination and the movement of the body. The park would be a place for children to engage with their peers and make friends as they get limited opportunities to play and spend time together along with other children, the release said. The uniqueness of the park also lies in its multi-sensory interactive walls, designed in the shape of a train, to enhance sensory perception. The wall has embossed materials of different textures, materials that make different sounds, which will provide multisensory stimulation. Sensory pathway A sensory pathway on the floor of the train is constructed using different textures such as grass, sand, differently textured tiles etc. The entry to the train has wheelchair access. For stimulating the olfactory and gustatory senses, an herbal garden is also in place. The park also includes an exercise area for adults and elderly persons with communication disorders such as aphasia, dysarthria and apraxia with co-morbid motor disabilities. A ramp with railings has been constructed which leads to the adult zone from the child zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/therapy-park-for-children-with-communication-disorders/article36924192.ece
10 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||We will win both seats: Siddaramaiah||Even though results of any by-elections do not set the trend for the outcome of the future polls generally, they will surely reflect the people’s opinion on the present regime, said former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. Speaking to reporters at the airport in Mysuru on Saturday, the Congress leader claimed that his party will win both Sindagi and Hanagal seats in the coming by-elections scheduled for October 30. “People are fed up with the BJP Government both at the Centre and in the State”, he said while adding that the BJP claimed to convert Karnataka into a heaven if people elected their party to power both at the Centre and in the State. “On the contrary, people’s lives have become hell”, he said. When asked if he believed the by-polls will be held in a fair manner in view of the allegations of irregularities committed by the ruling party in the previous polls, Mr. Siddaramaiah said one should believe in democracy. Fielding queries on the reason behind JD(S) fielding candidates from the minority communities in both the constituencies in the by-polls, Mr. Siddaramaiah suspected that the intention was not good. He said the JD(S) was surely not fielding candidates from the minority community to help them win. “If they wanted minority community candidates to win, they would have fielded them in other places”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-win-both-seats-siddaramaiah/article36924193.ece
10 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. committed to developing Kalyana Karnataka’||Minister for Transport and Scheduled Tribes Welfare B. Sriramulu has said that the State government was committed to developing Kalyana Karnataka region. Yadgir district would get more development projects as now the Union and State governments have built Ekalavya Model Residential School at a cost of Rs. 20.2 crore with an intention to provide better education to the children belonging to Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He was speaking after inaugurating the programme to distribute cheques to beneficiaries under various schemes at Imperial Garden in Yadgir on Saturday. Mr. Sriramulu has been appointed as chairman of the Cabinet Sub-Committee to supervise and review development works being taken under the special status granted under Article 371 (J) of the Constitution to KK region. “As per instructions from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, I will conduct a meeting with officials of the seven districts in the region shortly to review the progress of development projects,” he said. He said he had a vision to take up development works in education, social, and economic sectors for the people of SC and ST categories. “A sum of Rs. 1,435 crore will be earmarked to implement various projects aimed at development of STs,” he added. The Minister handed over cheques to the beneficiaries of various schemes and said 36,335 students were housed in 404 hostels and residential schools in the State and 1,860 students were there in 12 residential schools in Yadgir district alone. Scholarships totalling Rs. 209 crore had been provided to 6 lakh students and scholarships totalling Rs. 5 crore had been sanctioned to 18,000 students in Yadgir district. Prize money of Rs. 77.17 crore was given to 28,157 meritorious students, including 524 students in Yadgir. The Minister said that to empower the tribal people, the Rights of Records were given to 15,741 people who have been residing in the forests for several decades. Borewells had been drilled in the land of 7,477 people in the State under Ganga Kalyan scheme and it had been proposed to drill 112 borewells in Yadgir district. As many as 1,069 landless beneficiaries, including 41 in Yadgir district, were sanctioned land under Bhoo Odetana Yojana. Financial aid was given for sheep rearing and self-employment to uplift the economic status of people belonging to ST category. MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal, CMC chairman Vilas Patil, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya, CEO Shipla Sharma, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankargowda Somanal, Director of ST Welfare P.S. Kantharaju, and District ST Welfare officer Channabasava were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-committed-to-developing-kalyana-karnataka/article36923985.ece
10 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Inauguration of Ekalvya Model Residential School cancelled||Minister for Transport and Scheduled Tribes Welfare B. Sriramulu faced an embarrassing situation at Bandalli village in Yadgir taluk on Saturday after Baburao Chinchansur, former MLA and chairman of the Nijasharana Ambigara Chowdayya Abivriddhi Nigama, stopped the vehicle in which the Minister was travelling and strongly urged him not to inaugurate Ekalavya Model Residential School, constructed by the Department of ST Welfare, at Bandalli because he was not invited for the programme. He said the project was sanctioned when he was a Minster and he was insulted by officials by not inviting him properly. Mr. Chinchansur was not convinced even after MLA Venkatreddy Mudnal and other BJP leaders requested him with folded hands to allow the Minister to inaugurate the project. Mr. Sriramulu, who was visibly upset over the development, finally decided not to inaugurate the school building and returned to Yadgir city to take part in other scheduled programmes. But, this made his followers angry and they started a dharna by sitting in front of the Minister’s vehicle and demanded that the building be inaugurated as scheduled. Police personnel convinced the protesters and allowed the Minister’s vehicle to move from the spot. Later, Mr. Sriramulu told reporters in Yadgir, “Mr. Chinchansur is a senior leader and has represented Gurmitkal constituency, under which Bandalli village comes. He might have been upset. I will talk with the Deputy Commissioner about this issue and seek disciplinary action against the officer concerned if there has been any violation of protocol in inviting him.” The school building has been built at a cost of Rs. 20.2 crore on 20 acres of land in the village to help poor children to get education. When the programme was cancelled, residents of the village expressed their anguish against the attitude of Mr. Chinchansur. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya told The Hindu that there were no lapses in inviting Mr. Chinchansur as the invitation card was sent to his residence and the acknowledgement received was in the custody of the officer of the department. “Mr. Chinchansur’s name was published in the invitation card. But, I don’t know the reasons for his objection,” she added. Meanwhile, hundreds of students from various residential schools who had gathered at the newly constructed school to take part in a discussion with the Minister returned disappointed after the programme was cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inauguration-of-ekalvya-model-residential-school-cancelled/article36923982.ece
10 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain leaves many areas in Raichur flooded||Downpour over the last two days left many areas in Raichur City Municipal Council limits flooded. Many drains choked with garbage only added to the flooding. Raichur city has been receiving heavy rain since Friday. Not only slums but also areas which have been identified as developed were also badly affected. Low-lying areas in Sia-talab, Neerbhavikunta, Indira Nagar, Kala-talab, Zahirabad, Jalal Nagar and other localities were flooded after drain water entered many houses. “We face the same problem whenever it rains. The drains are blocked by garbage. They don’t allow rainwater to flow easily and this leads to flooding. We spent the whole night removing water from our house,” an elderly woman said. City MLA Shivaraj Patil visited the affected areas and suggested that the district administration arrange food for the affected people. Kalaji Kendras were opened in Zahirabad, Sukhani Colony, Sia-talab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-leaves-many-areas-in-raichur-flooded/article36923980.ece
10 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘BJP will win Hangal, Sindgi’||Minister for Transport and Scheduled Tribes Welfare B. Sriramulu has said that the BJP will win the byelections in the both Hangal and Sindgi Assembly segments. While talking with reporters in Yadgir on Saturday, Mr. Sriramulu expressed confidence and said that party candidates would surely register victory in the both places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-win-hangal-sindgi/article36923983.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka tourism sector looks to be back on track||M. Ravi, founder member of Karnataka Tourism Society, said that with COVID-19 cases having come down considerably, people who were staying indoors have started venturing out. “They are clubbing their holiday with Dasara. While some are travelling to experience the festival, most are actually going out to other destinations. Homestays, guesthouses, resorts — they are all going full for the next weekend. This is a very good sign for the industry,” he said. Apart from the usual popular destinations such as Mysuru, Kodagu, and Chikkamagaluru, he said Gokarna, Dandeli, Karwar, Murdeshwar, and the coastal belt of Mangaluru and Udupi had also improved a lot. But not many people are venturing outside the state yet, especially to Kerala, he added. However, he said that though taxis and other tourist vehicles were doing well, tourist buses were still suffering as no one wanted to go in a group yet. “Once corporate firms open, this might change as they have group outings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-tourism-sector-looks-to-be-back-on-track/article36923765.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-woes/article36923738.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hands-on training||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hands-on-training/article36924180.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Sri Krishna Mutt: Bharatanatya by Nritya Vasantha Natyalaya of Kundapur, Rajangana, 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article36924175.ece
10 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Village offices to be people-friendly: Rajan||Steps are being taken to make village offices in the State more people-friendly, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was inaugurating a smart village office at Pathiyoor on Saturday. Mr. Rajan said the Government was considering the involvement of people’s representatives and the public to ensure the efficient functioning of village offices. The Minister said that seven services of the Revenue Department would soon be available through digital platforms. Govt. endeavour He said the Government was working hard to ensure land to all landless people in the State. The Government would consider retaking land from those who possess land in excess of the ceiling fixed under the Land Reforms Act and redistribute it to landless people. The smart village office at Pathiyoor was constructed at a cost of Rs. 44 lakh sanctioned under the Plan Fund. U. Prathibha, MLA, presided. A.M. Ariff, MP, Alappuzha district panchayat president K.G. Rajeswari, District Collector A. Alexander, Kayamkulam municipal chairperson P. Sasikala, Muthukulam block panchayat president Ambujakshi and others were present at the function.  Seven services of the Revenue Department will soon be available through digital platforms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/village-offices-to-be-people-friendly/article36924048.ece
10 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Autokast delivers four Casnub bogies||Four more Casnub bogies built by Autokast Limited, a ferrous foundry manufacturing unit in the public sector at Cherthala, for the Northern Railway were dispatched to Amritsar in Punjab by road on Saturday. It was flagged off by P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA. Autokast, which was accorded a Class ‘A’ Foundry status by the Lucknow-based Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO) of the Union Ministry of Railways in 2019, had bagged a ‘development order’ in March 2020 for manufacturing five Casnub bogies for goods trains. The first bogie was delivered in August. Officials said the four bogies were dispatched after the RDSO accorded its final clearance. The remarkable turnaround of Autokast, which was once listed for privatisation, can be attributed to the previous Left Democratic Front government’s efforts to revive sick public sector undertakings in the State. The government had injected money into Autokast, which helped it to modernise the unit. Regular source By successfully delivering the initial order for Casnub bogies, Autokast’s status had been upgraded from development source to regular source. It has become eligible to participate in tenders of Railways. K.S. Pradeep Kumar, Chairman, Autokast, Prasad Mathew, Managing Director, S. Radhakrishnan, board member, and others were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/autokast-fulfils-development-order/article36924129.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Karnataka urges Centre to supply coal to power plants||With thermal power plants facing shortage of coal for generating power, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar called on Union Minister for Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday and appealed to him to ensure adequate quantity of coal to the State. All major power plants – Raichur Thermal Power Plant, Ballari Thermal Power Plant, and Yermarus Thermal Power Plant – are facing shortage of coal and generation of power has been hit in the last few days. Reduction in power generation in these plants caused disruption in supply in different parts of the State during the last few days, sources said. The State Government has reportedly asked the Centre to ensure supply of coal from Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. and Talcher Coalfields, both located in Odisha. On the second day of his trip to Delhi, Mr. Bommai also called on Union Minister for Labour, Environment, and Forest Bhupendra Yadav and urged him to clear projects related to the State. He met Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiradiya Scindia and discussed ongoing airport projects. Minister K. Sudhakar, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, and Principal Secretary to CM Manjunatha Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karnataka-urges-centre-to-supply-coal-to-power-plants/article36923628.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||Pasteur institute to supply vaccines from 2023||Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya has said that the Pasteur Institute of India (PII) in Coonoor will be able to supply vaccines for the country’s Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) by the first half of 2023. No bidders In a letter sent earlier this week, in response to Rajya Sabha MP P. Wilson’s letter seeking the production of Covishield and Covaxin at PII, the Integrated Vaccine Complex (ICV) in Chengalpattu, and the King Institute in Chennai, the Minister said there were no bidders for manufacturing vaccines at ICV. While the MP had pressed for the manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines, the Minister said PII would start supplying vaccines for UIP, but did not mention if Covishield or Covaxin would be produced there. He said the Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus (DPT) vaccine facility at PII had been upgraded as per Current Good Manufacturing Practices. Qualification stage The facility was in the qualification stage now, he said. The performance qualification of facilities, utilities and critical equipment would be completed by November, following which production of trial batches of the vaccines would be initiated Regarding ICV, operated by HLL Biotech Limited, the Minister said there were no bidders for it. This was despite the extension of the last date for the submission of the tender from April 14 to May 21, he said. On King Institute, he said that it was under the control of the Tamil Nadu government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pasteur-institute-to-supply-vaccines-from-2023-says-centre/article36923816.ece
10 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||The never-ending wildlife raids in Idukki||Devikulam and Udumbanchola taluks in Idukki district continue to be the centre of wild elephant attacks that snuff out lives of a large number of estate workers and farmers and cause widespread destruction to standing crops. The latest incident was at Anayirangal, near Munnar, where a man and his wife travelling on a motorcycle came under wild elephant attack. The woman was trampled to death. Nearly a month ago, a housewife was killed by a wild elephant at Poopara. As many as 39 persons fell prey to wild elephant attacks in the district since 2002 and most of them were farmers and estate workers. The highest number of wild elephant attacks was in Munnar division. Estate areas in the region and human settlement areas in Chinnakanal village are also constantly attacked. Reasons An official of the Forest Department says the proximity of forest is a reason. They attack suddenly as soon as humans come near. The Chinnakanal area, where landless workers have settled, is in the wild corridor. It is estimated that nearly a dozen incidents of human deaths had occurred in Chinnakanal village. And, many people have abandoned their houses. Another reason cited is the fragmentation of forest regions due to developmental works. ‘‘Landless workers have settled in the 301 colony in Chinnakanal, which falls in an elephant corridor,” the official says. The areas on the Tamil Nadu border such as Nedumkandam, Santhanpara and Udumbanchola grama panchayats also come under frequent raids. Large-scale destruction to the cardamom plants have been reported here. The threat engulfs tribal settlement areas in Devikulam, Udumbanchola and Peerumade taluks. Residents of Kannampady in the Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary say the animals destroy their cardamom, pepper, and plantain cultivation. Wild boars Apart from elephants, wild boars also attack tapioca and other tubers. Farmers have hence kept away from cultivating the crops for the past five years. Now, wild elephants have entered scene, says Soman, a farmer. An official under the Munnar forest division says moves such as alerting farmers and tracing the movement of wild elephants are done. When a herd of wild elephants comes, the Rapid Response Team chases them to the forest area in Tamil Nadu, Arunkumar, a cardamom farmer at Santhanpara, says. However, the animals come again to destroy crops. Compensation There is a huge time lag in the award of compensation to the victims. The family of Korampara resident Vimala, who was killed by a wild elephant while working on a cardamom estate in July last, is yet to get compensation. Her husband says though they had been promised an emergency compensation of Rs. 1 lakh, they got only Rs. 10,000 so far. The family of Rajani, another victim of a wild elephant attack on July 26, 2016, at Indiranagar, Marayur, says they were allotted Rs. 5 lakh. But no money has come so far. The living conditions of many people who are bedridden or with serious health issues after wildlife attacks are also pathetic, according to farmers’ organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-never-ending-wildlife-raids-in-idukki/article36924134.ece
10 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Migrant worker killed as bricks fall on him||A migrant worker was killed when cement bricks fell on him at a brick-making unit at Attapallom, near Kumily, on Saturday. The victim was identified as Assam resident Siddique, 39. The accident took place around 11 am. Though he was rushed to Kottayam Medical College, he died on the way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-worker-killed-as-bricks-fall-on-him/article36924135.ece
10 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Greens demand revision of Wayanad package||Environmental organisations in the district have urged the government to revise the projects drafted under the Wayanad package announced by Chief Ministry Pinarayi Vijayan to rejuvenate the post-flood agriculture, economy, and ecological sectors of the district. Though Mr. Vijayan had announced the Rs. 7,000-crore package, bureaucrats were trying to sabotage it by allocating a huge amount for projects like the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road, development of tourism and construction of roads, said the Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti in a letter to the Chief Minister. Such projects, which could lead to corruption, would destroy the district, said the organisation. Hence, half the project amount should be allocated for eco-restoration of the district, it added. More than 3,000 tribal families in the district were landless and homeless, but the package had no mention of them. While officials had allocated Rs. 250 crore for the construction of buildings and purchasing vehicles for the Forest Department, they had allocated only Rs. 100 crore for projects aimed at mitigating man-animal conflict, said the Samiti, adding that a sum of Rs. 1,000 crore should be allocated for the issue. There were no provisions for making value-added products from farm produce, except Robusta coffee. As climate change would directly affect farmers, plantation workers and tribespeople in ecologically fragile regions like Wayanad, the package should be revised by including projects for their betterment, added the Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-demand-revision-of-wayanad-package/article36924040.ece
10 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Coop. society scam: CPI(M) to pay back money to investors||After the Rs. 1.5-crore scam in the CPI(M)-controlled Peravur Cooperative Housing Society snowballed into a controversy, the party has clarified that it will not shirk its responsibility and will pay the investors their dues. CPI(M) Peravur area committee secretary M. Rajan told mediapersons on Saturday that the assets of the society would be sold and the misappropriated money recovered from those concerned. The party was of the view that people should not lose their hard-earned money. Meanwhile, CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said the party would take action against those involved in the irregularities. The chit fund in question was started without the permission of the Cooperation Department. He demanded that the department conduct a thorough inquiry into the alleged misappropriation. The issue came to light with the investors alleging that the society had embezzled money from a chit fund of Rs. 1 lakh started in 2017. As many as 876 people had joined the chit fund. Though many received money, 315 people did not, despite several requests. Charge and denial The CPI(M) issued a statement following the allegation raised by P.V. Haridas, secretary of the society, that the chit fund was started with the permission of the party and its leader P. Jayarajan. However, Mr. Jayarajan denied the charge and threatened to take legal action against Mr. Haridas. Mr. Haridas later said his remark was based on hearsay.  Assets of the society will be sold and the misappropriated money recovered from those concerned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coop-society-scam-cpim-to-pay-back-money-to-investors/article36924067.ece
10 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman, son found dead||A woman and her son were found dead inside their house at Padiyottuchal in Pattuvam of Kannur district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Chandramathy, 55, and Pratyush, 24. Chandramathy, who was bedridden, was found dead in the bed, and Pratyush was found hanging. The bodies were shifted to the Kannur Medical College Hospital after inquest. The exact cause for their death is yet to be ascertained, the police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at the State government’s health helpline - 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-25405030, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 049527-60000 and Direct Intervention System for Health Awareness (DISHA) - 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-son-found-dead-in-house/article36924037.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam to have smart app for waste management soon||Nearly 25 local bodies in Ernakulam district will soon introduce a smart garbage monitoring application to step up efficiency of waste collection and management. They will be among the around 300 civic bodies to be shortlisted for implementing the initial roll-out of the automated waste management system in the State. A meeting of the district-level coordination committee will be held next week to select the local bodies. Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM) is spearheading the execution of the project in association with Suchitwa Mission, Clean Kerala Company, and the Local Self-Government Department (LSGD). “Keltron, which developed the software, will provide human resource support to the local bodies for the first six months. Stakeholders in waste management will be part of the digital platform,” said Sujith Karun, district co-ordinator, HKM. The application will be available for free for the local bodies, as the Suchitwa Mission had provided financial aid to Keltron. The app offers a total solution from collection of waste to its disposal. The software will help in tracking waste collection by Haritha Karma Sena volunteers from each home. Waste generators can pay their user fee through the digital mode. Relevant data for running the system will be integrated with the digital platform. Each house will be given a QR code. Members of each household can attach the QR code at the entrance to the house. Green volunteers engaged in waste collection will scan the code using their mobiles. Data on the quantity of waste collected and the user fee remitted by users will be uploaded to the centralised system. Besides keeping track of the collection process, the app will help users raise complaints, if any, about shortcomings in waste collection from households. The complaints will be transferred online to officials of civic bodies for follow-up action. Citizens can also alert instances of dumping or burning of waste in violation of rules to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-to-have-smart-app-for-waste-management-soon/article36924052.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB plans digital mapping of Periyar||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) plans to carry out digital mapping of canals and drains leading to the Periyar as part of the proposed Periyar Action Plan. Mapping will be done along the three stretches of the river that include Idukki, Idukki-Ernakulam border (Neriamangalam) to Aluva and Mangalapuzha branch in Thrissur district and Aluva to Eloor ferry, covering industrial areas in Eloor, Edayar, and Kalamassery. Data from digital sources like Google Earth and Geographical Information System (GIS) will be used to map the canals and drains flowing into the river along these stretches. The land use pattern and sources of pollution could be identified using the data. It will be mapped digitally to help researchers and local bodies come up with restoration and remedial plans under the Periyar Action Plan. The decision to map the natural water resources leading to the river emerged as part of the study carried out by an expert team appointed by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to assess the pollution load and factors triggering ecological changes in the river. Major pollutants Senior officials associated with the project said a preliminary study carried out by the team had found that canals and drains were major sources of pollution. The assessment had brought to light the lack of sewage treatment plants and effluent treatment plants in local bodies and industrial units located close to the river. Untreated pollutants are directed into canals and drains in violation of the Environment Act and Waste Management Rules. The digital mapping will include sampling points in canals and drains along the three stretches. Data related to pollution sources will help government agencies conduct periodic analysis of water samples collected from each point. It will be shared with local bodies for follow-up action and remedial measures. Local bodies role Officials said secretaries of local bodies had the responsibility to act against those behind the pollution of the river as per directives issued by the tribunal and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-plans-digital-mapping-of-periyar/article36924066.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Land acquisition for NH-66 widening to be completed by February||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has set February as the deadline to complete land acquisition in Ernakulam, as part of the project to widen the 164-km Edappally-Ramanattukara (Kozhikode) stretch of NH 66 into a six-lane corridor. The 45-metre corridor will be flanked by two-lane service roads on either side. This will result in the bottlenecked, congested and accident-prone largely two-lane corridor metamorphosing into a roughly 10-lane stretch. The deadline to commission the widened highway is 30 months after land acquisition. It will be extended to a maximum of 36 months, if needed. The quantum of compensation for land that ought to be acquired in Ernakulam was fixed a week ago, with Rs. 40.93 lakh set as the maximum compensation per cent, for category A land in Edappally North. With land acquisition getting over in Thrissur, the contract to construct the highway was awarded recently. An agreement will shortly be reached with the contracting firm, following which men and materials will be mobilised, official sources said. The contracting firm which won the bid has already begun mobilising men and materials in Malappuram, they added. Considerable progress has been made for the project to widen the 25-km Edappally-Kodungalloor NH 66 stretch into a six-lane highway, with a bulk of land acquisition proceedings over, following which widening and road construction work will begin in May, sources in the NHAI said. The Edappally-Ramanattukara NH 66 stretch is part of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari NH corridor. The stretch has been divided into five reaches, where road construction work will be held simultaneously to adhere to the 2024 deadline. Approximately, Rs. 10,700 crore is expected to be disbursed for acquiring 400 hectares in the three districts. Kochi-Theni NH The NHAI is subsequently expected to focus shift on hewing out a greenfield NH having four- or six-lane width on the Netoor-Theni stretch to decongest the narrow and accident-prone Kundannoor-Theni NH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-for-nh-66-widening-to-be-completed-by-february/article36924059.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Discrimination against people with mental illness on the rise||A man in his 30s recently got admitted to a private hospital in Kochi for COVID-19 treatment. He was billed around Rs. 1.50 lakh but was denied coverage by the insurance company as he, in his honesty, admitted that he had in the past undergone treatment for a mental disorder. Another patient who had undergone abdomen surgery at a prominent private hospital was also denied her claim in a similar manner since she suffered from bipolar disorder. As yet another World Mental Health Day is being observed on Sunday, the fact remains that those suffering from mental illness are still being discriminated against. “Paradoxically, the theme for this year’s observance is ‘Mental Health in an Unequal World’ even as mentally-ill patients continue to be treated unequally, and their illness is used as a ruse for denying them their rightful claims. “This is a clear violation of the right to equality and protection from discrimination as laid down in the Mental Health Care Act 2017,” said noted psychiatrist C.J. John. The Act categorically directs that “every insurer shall make provision for medical insurance for treatment of mental illness on the same basis as is available for treatment for physical illness.” Dr. John observed that the cost of treatment for mental illness continues to be comparatively much low, and patients either do not even bother to claim it or take the matter to the court in the event of denial of claim because of the stigma associated with the illness. “Yet, they are made to further suffer by denying claims even for treatment of other illnesses,” he rued. U. Vivek, consultant psychiatrist, lamented that years after the passage of the Act, it was being observed more in breach by a large section of insurers. “They put up far too many hurdles to dissuade people from claiming coverage for mental illness. This amounts to violation of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India [IRDAI] notification and multiple High Court and Supreme Court rulings. While insurance companies have started allowing claims up to 25% of the treatment expenses for mental illness, it is still far from being considered on par with other medical illnesses,” said Dr. Vivek. IRDAI via a circular in June last year had asked all insurance providers to offer coverage to persons diagnosed with mental illnesses and gave all insurance companies in the country, be it life, health or general insurers, to comply with it by October 1, 2020. P.K. Vijayakumar, former insurance ombudsman for Kerala and Lakshadweep, recalled how for long there was even a sadistic saying in the insurance circle to the effect that ‘dental and mental’ illness may be overlooked for insurance claim. “But since the passage of the Mental Health Care Act, people can now challenge the denial of claims in court. Insurance companies though continue to play in the grey area between ignorance and deliberate denial in the matter for their convenience,” he said. Mr. Vijayakumar observed that it was all the more significant to cover mental illness under insurance policies considering the spike in mental health issues following the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discrimination-against-people-with-mental-illness-on-the-rise/article36924047.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ASAP to offer drone pilot training in Ernakulam||The day is not far off when e-commerce portals deliver orders at doorsteps using drones. With such an arrangement already being tried out on a trial basis in some metro cities and the vista of opportunities offered by drones ever expanding, the State government’s Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) Kerala has expanded its executive programme in micro category drone pilot training to Ernakulam district as well. “We will open admission as soon as we get the requisite clearances from the authorities concerned for running the course on the campus of the Edappally Higher Secondary School. We have already received over 100 registrations,” said Shanthanu P., district programme manager, ASAP. The maiden batch of the 96-hour course in operating micro category drones weighing up to 2 kg has already been launched in Kozhikode. The programme will be run in collaboration with the Kozhikode-based Indian Institute of Drones and the Autonomous Industry. “The ones successfully clearing the course will be eligible for licence for operating drones issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), which is mandatory since 2018,” said Anandulal Sankar, programme manager, ASAP, Ernakulam. The programme entailing a course fee of Rs. 43,000 will be open to SSLC pass-outs aged between 18 and 60 years. Considering that a batch cannot have not more than 20 candidates considering the logistics and complexities involved, the ones who pay the fee upfront will make it to the first batch in the district. Significantly, a lot of young women, including young graduates, are evincing interest in the programme. The course curriculum comprises five modules—aerial cinematography, 3D mapping, surveying, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) manufacturing, and UAV assembling. The multi-purpose scope of drones is increasing by the day. For instance, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Agriculture Department are using it for aerial surveys, while the KSEB also uses them for facilitating drawing of electric lines over wide waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asap-to-offer-drone-pilot-training-in-ernakulam/article36924050.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Efforts on to clear pending files||The Revenue authorities in Ernakulam district have said that an adalat would be held in November to process pending applications at the Fort Kochi Revenue Divisional Office. An officers’-level adalat will be held on October 11, 12, and 13 at the office during which there will be restrictions on visitors, said a communication. Sub Collector Vishnu Raj said there would be restrictions on those coming to the office on the three days, so that pending files could be processed by officials. Any enquiries can be made through phone. The files are being processed directly under the supervision of District Collector Jafar Malik and the Sub Collector. Around 500 files have been processed since August, while examination of 1,200 files is in progress. Most files refer to applications for land conversion. Fort Kochi is one of the busiest Revenue Divisional Offices in the State, the communication said. The office deals with applications from the Kochi urban area, Kanayannur, Paravur and Aluva taluks. It added that steps were being taken to deploy more officers at the office. Arrangements are also being made to receive applications via postal mail and inform applicants of the status of their applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-clear-pending-files/article36924062.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishers reiterate call to recover debris||Fishers have reiterated their demand for help to remove the debris of sunken boats off the coast of Kochi, where six fishing boats have sunk during the course of a month. The most recent incident involved Kutty Aandavan , a gillnet boat from Nagapattinam, which ventured out from the Kochi harbour on October 30. Fishers on board were saved by those in the vicinity of the site, north-west of the LNG terminal on Puthuvype island. Efforts are on to bring ashore the remains of another boat Ashiqmon that sank off the Kochi coast on August 31. The trawling boat has been hauled and brought close to the channel where passenger boats operate, said Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi, an independent fishers’ union.  St. Antony , an inboard engine traditional boat, sank in the vicinity of the above accidents on September 1, but the vessel is yet to be retrieved.  Accidents The boat sank after it ran into the remains of another boat that had sunk on May 27, said Mr. George, citing the cause of a series of accidents in the same fishing channel. Meanwhile, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, responding to a submission by K.N. Unnikrishnan in the Assembly, promised immediate action to remove the debris of sunken boats. Mr. Unnikrishnan had underlined the need for a permanent arrangement for removing the debris of sunken boats to prevent accidents.  The Minister said that the Fisheries Department, district administration, Cochin Port Trust, Kerala Maritime Board, Hydrographic Survey Department, and the Disaster Management Authority would be involved in drawing up a plan of action address the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-reiterate-call-to-recover-debris/article36924064.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,337 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 1,337 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. A total of 1,308 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 19 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 7.9%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 30 included Thrikkakara (60), Thripunithura (60), Udayamperoor (38), Mazhuvannoor (37), Kottuvally (33), and Sreemoolanagaram (31). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Okkal, Aarakuzha, Kanjoor, Thammanam, Thiruvaniyoor, Pampakuda, Edakattuvayal, Kumbalanghi, Maneed, Mukkanoor, Vadavucode, Edakochi, Chalikavattom, Thevara, Pachalam, Panampilly Nagar, Palarivattom, Ponekkara, Mattancherry, Malayattoor-Neeleswaram, Mulavukad, Ayappankavu, and Manjapra, according to an official release. The number of active cases in the district was 17, 198 as on Saturday. Vaccination Of the total 8,572 doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered on Saturday, 2,020 came under the first dose, while the corresponding figure of second dose was 6,552. About 1.59 lakh persons have completed the window period after their first dose of Covishield and can now receive the second dose, as per official estimate. The corresponding figure in the case of those who have taken Covaxin is 61,733. Meanwhile, District Collector Jafar Malik requested those who had received the first dose to take the second dose at the earliest as it was vital to attaining the target of administering both doses to the 100% target population. Ward-level samitis in each region should take initiative to take them to vaccination centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1337-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36924063.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CREDAI flays hike in prices of construction materials||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India(CREDAI), Kochi, has said that the hike in prices of steel and cement will force the construction industry to increase Rs. 1,000 per square feet for buildings. CREDAI president Ravi Jacob said the price hike would plunge the construction industry into deep crisis. “In fact, the sector was on the road to recovery after COVID-19, and the price hike will bring activities in the sector to a total standstill,” he added. It will also be an additional burden for customers. The policy of the government to provide affordable houses will be impacted by the increase in the prices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/credai-flays-hike-in-prices-of-construction-materials/article36924060.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held on charge of stealing parrots||The Puthencruz police on Saturday arrested two persons on charge of stealing premium parrots from Kolancherry. The arrested were identified as Vipin, 32, and Anoop, 39, of Kummanadu. Another accused, Binoy of Ayyampuzha, had been arrested by the Hill Palace police in connection with a vehicle theft case on October 7. The parrots worth around Rs. 75,000 were stolen from the owner’s house in the early morning hours of Thursday. The theft was allegedly carried out by Vipin and Binoy, who then gave them to Anoop to get them sold. He sold them to a person in Thripunithura. The buyer was not reportedly aware that the birds were stolen. K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), had formed a squad to probe the case. A team led by Inspector T. Dileesh, Sub Inspectors T.M. Thampi and Sajeev, and senior civil police officers B. Chandrabose and Dinil made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-charge-of-stealing-parrots/article36924061.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro to increase frequency||Kochi metro will operate trains at a frequency of one every seven-and-a-half minutes during peak hours from Monday to Saturday, considering the gradual increase in ridership following lockdown relaxations. A train will operate every nine minutes during non-peak hours. The metro recorded its highest ridership of 33,000 passengers post-lockdown on October 4. Considering the demand, especially during early morning hours, trains will start operating from 6 a.m., instead of 7 a.m., from Monday to Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-to-increase-frequency/article36924055.ece
10 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam circuit lays out a diverse spread||From seaside gateways to serene forests and scenic backwaters, Kollam biodiversity circuit, one of the two major tourism projects announced in the 2012-22 Budget, will connect a string of diverse destinations. Apart from prime attractions, including Ashtamudi, Thenmala and Jatayu Earth’s Centre, the circuit is expected to cut through lesser-known spots recommended by local authorities. There are also proposals to leave the project open ended, so that it can be extended to other ecotourism centres such as Gavi in neighbouring Pathanamthitta. Ten spots According to officials, nearly ten spots will be developed as part of the project and basic facilities will be upgraded. “Along with beach and backwater tourism, the project involves wildlife sanctuaries and hill stations offering the visitors an exclusive experience. The circuit with all topographical features will be a rarity,” says Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal. The circuit will be designed in a way causing zero damage to ecologically fragile destinations such as Munroe Thuruthu. The authorities are exploring various possibilities, including introduction of floating amphibious houses to attract international tourists. Heart of the circuit Since Ashtamudi will be the heart of the circuit, Kollam KSRTC bus station, located on its shore, will be given a major facelift. Nearly four acres surrounding the depot will be spruced up to change the face of the city. “The location has huge potential and there are plans to convert it into a multi-storey complex offering premium options for stay and shopping,” he says. While the mangrove cover in various parts, including Asramam biodiversity heritage site will be protected, strict surveillance and enforcement measures will be taken to conserve the waterbody. “We have already launched an elaborate programme to clean and rejuvenate the lake and in future we will be taking all efforts to prevent environmental consequences of tourism,” says Mayor Prasanna Earnest. DTPC packages The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) had launched special packages covering some of the locations in the circuit and according to officials, the trips have many takers.  Apart from dawn-to dusk cruise packages, there are midland circuit tours that included destinations such as Muttara-Maruthimala, Meenpidippara, and Malamel. “Some of the tours we operate are already part of the circuit and they will definitely benefit from the project. We are expecting an increased footfall in the routes and are also planning to suggest some new additions,” says DTPC secretary M.R. Jayageetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diverse-fare-in-kollam-circuit/article36924131.ece
10 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam logs 696 cases||Kollam reported 696 new cases of COVID-19 and 863 recoveries on Saturday. While 689 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI, one person from another State, and five health workers. At present, the district has 27,607 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,70,565. While 4,869 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 3,86,606 primary and 21,077 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 11.1 %. 569 in Kottayam The number of fresh cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 569 persons testing positive for the disease on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 563 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 60 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kurichy, which recorded 25 cases. As many as 867 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,080. Meanwhile, 41,472 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 447 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 447 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 36 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Naranamoozhy, which reported 25 cases. The disease also claimed two lives in the district. With 481 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 6,390. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-logs-696-cases/article36924142.ece
10 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||MGNREGS in more areas||Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) director B. Abdul Nasar has said the programme will be extended to more areas. “Maximum opportunities will be created for villagers. A wide range of options, including infrastructure development of schools, construction of anganwadis, conservation of water resources, construction of fish ponds, cultivation of fallow lands and construction activities in animal husbandry sector will be utilised,” he said, presiding over a review meeting here recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgnregs-in-more-areas/article36924132.ece
10 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ruby jubilee of Karickam YMCA||Euyakim Mar Coorilos Suffragan Metropolitan will inaugurate the ruby jubilee celebrations of the YMCA, Karickam, on Monday. Regional Chairman Jose G. Oommen will inaugurate the jubilee project and president K.O. Rajukutty will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ruby-jubilee-of-karickam-ymca/article36924140.ece
10 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Now, aroma of fresh tea lingers in Kottayam||While the talk of tea plantations conjures up images of colonial estates on the undulating hills of Munnar, the evergreen plant, with its scented flowers and delicious leaves, is now lending charm to the precincts of a Kottayam home. An half-acre garden, comprising about 2,000 tea plants, is nurtured by James K. Thomas, a businessman settled at Chengalam East, Pallikathodu grama panchayat. From Wagamon Transplanted from a tea plantation in Wagamon, these plants have survived at least four summers and are flourishing with the rain. Mr. Thomas, who had been staying at NCR Faridabad for long, decided to plant the tea saplings during a visit to Munnar. “The view of tea bushes washing green the gentle slopes and miles of plain land was so appealing. That was when I decided to replace the usual landscaping plan for my newly built home with a thriving tea garden,” he says. The tea saplings, collected through a planter in Wagamon, were planted on its front yard, which gently slopes down to the road. Organic manure Every bush in the garden is tended to by the family of Mr.Thomas, which comprises wife, Mercy, and daughters Juvi and Jewel. These plants grow on organic manure while sprinklers have been deployed to keep the bushes wet throughout summer. The plucking of leaves began about one-and-a-half years later and the yield now stands around four kg of tea powder every month. Having learned the basics of tea powder making through visits to tea factories in Munnar, the family has begun the processing of tea leaves on their own. The handmade tea from the garden is now sold through local market collectives. “It may not be perfectly packed like branded tea powder, but, at least, we are able to enjoy a cup of tea that we can proudly say we grew ourselves,” adds Mr.Thomas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-aroma-of-fresh-tea-lingers-in-kottayam/article36924073.ece
10 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC factions celebrate party’s birth anniversary||All factions of the Kerala Congress on Saturday celebrated the 58th formation day of the regional party. Inaugurating the celebrations organised by the Kerala Congress (M), party chairman Jose K. Mani launched a scathing attack against the Union Government for its attempts to curb the farmers’ protests using violence. “Having failed to hold talks with the protesting farmers even after 10 months, the Union Government is now attempting to wipe them out as was evident from the act of the Union Minister's son at Lakhimpur Kheri,” Mr. Mani said. The Kerala Congress (M) chairman also spoke of the party's plan to bring about a comprehensive change in the organisational framework. Mission 2030 The party steering committee on Saturday approved a working plan incorporating changes being implemented on the basis of Mission 2030 and another notification on the election schedule, rules and procedures of the party from ward level to state level. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, Government Chief Whip N. Jayaraj, Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, and others were present. The Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph organised its celebrations at the party headquarters in Kottayam. Inaugurating the meeting, Mr. Joseph accused both the Union and State Governments of following anti-farmer policies. “It is highly deplorable that the Union Government turned a blind eye towards the gruesome incident that happened in Uttar Pradesh, even after stringent criticism from the Supreme Court,” he said. Party working chairman P.C. Thomas presided over. Mons Joseph, MLA, and others spoke. The function organised by Kerala Congress (Jacob) was inaugurated by the party leader Anoop Jacob, MLA. Mr. Jacob accused the LDF Government of covering up the exact number of the COVID-19 deaths. According to him, the Lakhimpur Kheri incident had brought to light the fascist tendency of the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kc-factions-celebrate-partys-birth-anniversary/article36924138.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC to shift operations from bus station on Mavoor Road||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is planning to shift its operations from the bus station on Mavoor Road in the wake of a report by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) that the multi-storey twin complex was unfit and unsafe and required immediate renovation. Plans are afoot to shift bus services to the mofussil station and the parking and maintenance of vehicles to the Nadakkavu regional workshop within a month. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting held in Thiruvananthapuram after the report of the expert committee pointed out that the building needed immediate strengthening. The IIT-M study has found serious flaws, including structural weakness, in the the terminal-building-cum-commercial-complex. The development comes after the Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) decided to hand over the terminal complex to Mukkom-based company ALIF Builders for commercial purposes in July. The company has secured the contract for 30 years. At least Rs. 20 crore would be required to rectify the construction anomalies. Tenders have to be floated soon to carry out the building strengthening works. Besides, the terminal will have to be closed down for six months for renovation. Meanwhile, the Vigilance Department is looking into complaints about the construction of the terminal. It was found that about 20% of the pillars were constructed without using adequate steel. Nine major pillars had developed fissures and several others had minor cracks as well. The complex with two towers with a total space of 3,87,747 sq. ft was constructed at the cost of Rs. 74.63 crore in 2015. The first tower has 10 floors and the second 11 floors, including space for parking. The terminal has a built-up area of 38,069 sq. m and consists of a KSRTC bus station, parking for 40 buses and space for shops, restaurants, offices and IT spaces. The KTDFC had been scouting for companies to lease the commercial complex for a long time. It had gone for re-tendering in the wake of a High Court order two years ago. ALIF Builders had reached an agreement with the KTDFC to invest Rs. 17 crore as non-refundable security deposit and pay monthly rent of Rs. 43 lakh for the commercial space. This was following the intervention of Ministers P.A. Mohammed Riyas and Antony Raju, and Kozhikode North legislator Thottathil Raveendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-shift-operations-from-bus-station-on-mavoor-road/article36924043.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Experts oppose move to give homoeo drugs to students||More public health experts have come out against the State government move to distribute Arsenicum Album 30CH among students as a preventive drug against COVID-19 ahead of reopening of schools on November 1. Just days after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Kerala branch objected to the move, one of the members of the government’s COVID expert panel too has criticised it. Three pills are proposed to be given to children thrice in a gap of 21 days. ‘Long-term effects’ T.S. Anish, Associate Professor, Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, said if the drugs to be used were not tested for their safety and efficacy, it should have long-term consequences. Arsenicum Album is a homoeopathic drug in use against cold and fever since 17th century. It was not a drug discovered after scientific experiments to treat COVID-19, he said. Practitioners of homoeopathy claim that Arsenicum Album is capable of producing COVID-like symptoms in people. They also claim that if that chemical is diluted and administered on an uninfected person, it would prevent the infection. However, they did not have any evidence to prove this, Dr. Anish said, adding there was also no answer to the question how the medicine helped the body develop capacity to prevent COVID-19. ‘Memory of water’ “Their argument in support of the drug is related to the myth of ‘memory of water’. It is claimed that if Arsenicum Album is diluted many times, its presence in the water gets reduced and the water develops a ‘memory’ of the drug. Homoeopaths attribute the efficacy of the drug to this memory power,” he said. The medicine is produced after diluting one gram of the chemical in 100 milli litre of water 30 times. This would mean the presence of Arsenicum Album molecule in the final product would be zero, he said. Dr. Anish also came down on the purported efficacy study held on some people at Pandalam in Pathanamthitta district, saying that it had nothing to do with COVID, but was meant to test their immunity levels. U. Nandakumar, public health expert and functionary of the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics, too criticised the government proposal. He said that at a time when vaccines were not being administered on children for lack of efficacy studies, the use of such medicines should not be encouraged. Dr. Nandakumar also said informed consent should be taken from children before giving them the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-homoeopathic-drugs-among-children-opposed/article36924028.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||With new laws, women’s panel to sharpen its teeth||The Kerala Women’s Commission has submitted a few recommendations to the Government regarding weddings that will rein in extravagance as well as the possibility of dowry. Speaking at a meet-the-press programme of the Calicut Press Club on Saturday, new chairperson P. Satheedevi said there would be laws to ensure that ‘gifts’ given to the bride by her family were properly accounted for and recorded as the woman’s property. Limit to spending Also, there would be a cut-off for the amount spent on a wedding. She said several recommendations had been made to the Government to enhance the powers of the commission, for easy functioning. “There have been several instances in which the police had to be asked repeatedly to get something based on the commission’s recommendations. The legal framework of the commission will be altered in such a way that the police will be answerable to the commission,” she said. To reach out to needy women in a better way, the commission would give an opportunity to local women’s organisations in each district to collaborate with it. The affiliated organisations would help the commission in collecting data on the condition of women at workplaces. “There will be efforts to ensure that the internal complaints committee against workplace sexual harassment is in order in every establishment.” There would also be efforts to strengthen vigilance committees at the local body level. “We have found that the committees have not been effective at most places. Hence, they will be trained at the district level to equip them to pinpoint issues related to gender justice in rural areas,” she said. As part of its silver jubilee, the commission is organising a media workshop in Thiruvananthapuram on October 25 to sensitise mediapersons to spread progressive ideas. The commission would submit a set of directives to the Government concerning handling of gender issues in the media, which would be finalised at the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-new-laws-womens-panel-to-sharpen-its-teeth/article36924071.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Basheer memorial first project under Literary Circuit||The proposed memorial for Vaikom Muhammad Basheer at Beypore in Kozhikode district will be the first project under the State Government’s Literary Circuit, which promotes places related to well-known writers as tourism destinations. At a meeting here on Saturday, Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas directed the Kozhikode Corporation to ensure that the first phase of the project was over by July 5 to mark the death anniversary of the writer. Mr. Riyas represents the Beypore constituency in the Assembly. Though the proposal for the memorial was mooted in 2006, it did not take off owing to various reasons. Mr. Riyas said a committee involving the District Collector, Tourism Director, project architect, Corporation Secretary, and Corporation executive engineer would be formed to streamline the project. Kozhikode Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafar Ahmed said a Corporation Council meeting would be convened soon to grant no-objection certificate to the Tourism Department to start the work. It is going to be a joint venture of the Corporation and the department. The memorial, titled ‘Akashamittayi’, the name Saramma and Keshavan Nair proposed for their child in Premalekhanam , one of Basheer’s classic works, will come up on a one-acre land on B.C. Road in Beypore. The plan is to have a cultural hall, library, research hall, amphitheatre, park, auditorium and cultural centre along with a ‘Garden of Letters’. A statue of the writer in the front yard, a hall showcasing his works, and information on the history of Beypore may also be highlighted. There will be a walkway to the memorial from the entrance. A reclining chair and a gramophone, things that the writer came to be identified with, may be placed in the front yard. The place could be developed as a platform for writers, artists, and literary enthusiasts to get together and share ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/basheer-memorial-first-project-under-literary-circuit/article36924025.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Old Corpn. office to be a heritage structure||The old office of the Kozhikode Corporation, a century-old building, will be protected as a heritage structure, Archives and Museums Minister Ahammad Devarkovil has said. Speaking after a meeting chaired by Mayor Beena Philip on Saturday, the Minister said the Corporation Council had earlier decided to preserve the building and that his department would cooperate in the matter. The detailed project report will be prepared soon. The Minister said a meeting of historians and archaeologists would be convened soon to discuss the matter, considering the antiquity and historical significance of the building. The meeting also discussed the possibility of protecting the Comtrust building in the city under the heritage conservation project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/old-corpn-office-to-be-a-heritage-structure/article36924035.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU rank list on Oct. 11||The University of Calicut will publish the rank list of those who have applied to the around 50,000 vacant seats in undergraduate courses for 2021-22 academic year on October 11. A release said on Saturday that the students can log in to the university website and check their rank. Admissions will be held based on merit as per instructions from respective colleges. According to sources, after the completion of the third round of allotment, 58,283 seats were found vacant in government, aided, and self-financing colleges and university study centres spread across five districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-rank-list/article36924036.ece
10 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IUML flays Minister’s remarks||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State general secretary in- charge P.M.A. Salam has termed as ridiculous Education Minister V. Sivankutty’s statement that students should not be obstinate about pursuing studies of their choice. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he alleged that the government was evading its obligation to provide opportunities for higher studies to students. “Also, the government says that additional batches cannot be started, as it will lead to financial burden. If money is not spent on welfare, including education, then what is it for?” Mr. Salam asked. He said students in the Malabar region were facing difficulties in pursuing their studies. He added that 22,000 students in Malappuram district and 10,000 each in Kozhikode and Palakkad would be deprived of Plus Two admissions. Similar is the case in Kasaragod, Kannur, and Wayanad. In the southern districts, he said not even 40 students were admitted to a class. The IUML leader said that seats remained vacant in 75 schools in the southern districts. Of them, 60 were government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-denied-chance-to-pursue-higher-studies/article36924032.ece
10 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML bids to erase gender bias charge||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has begun earnest attempts to efface allegations of gender inequality raised against the party in the wake of a recent controversy over its woman student wing Haritha. The party had faced a barrage of criticism from various corners over the manner it treated the State leadership of Haritha in connection with the latter’s complaint of sexual harassment against a few leaders of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF). The IUML dismissed the Haritha State committee and acted against a few leaders who supported the rebellious Haritha leadership. The party’s action against Haritha members was perceived by some as partisan and discriminatory. However, apart from silencing the voices of dissent, the IUML roped in senior woman leaders such as Noorbina Rasheed to speak up in such a manner as to reassert that obedience should be the hallmark of good women. As part of its efforts to give shape to a fresh women corps, the party leadership has chalked out a series of programmes, including workshops and training sessions. Inaugurating a day-long leadership training session at Pookkottur near here on Saturday, IUML district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal, who holds charge of the State president, called upon Haritha members to be the fresh hopes of society. “Like nature provides the air we breathe, you have to prove yourselves essential in the building and upkeep of our society. Your empowerment will benefit society,” said Mr. Thangal. Equipping students He exhorted Haritha to take up the role of equipping women students with necessary skills to face the challenges of modernity politically and socially. Haritha district president K. Thwahani presided over the function. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, was the chief guest. MSF State president P.K. Navas delivered the keynote address. MLAs U.A. Latheef, P. Ubaidullah, and T.V. Ibrahim, MSF national secretary N.A. Kareem, State vice presidents Faris Pookkotur and Ramshad Pallam, district president Kabeer Muthuparamba, general secretary V.A. Wahab, and Haritha State president P.H. Aysha Banu and district general secretary M.P. Sifwa addressed the session. Former Chandrika editor C.P. Saidalavi led a session on ‘Dignity and identity’. Trainer Abdul Latheef spoke on organisational behaviour. C. Hamza spoke on ‘Gender equity and spiritual society’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-tries-to-efface-gender-inequality-charges-over-haritha/article36924038.ece
10 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police team that lost way returns||A team of police personnel who ventured into the Walayar forests from Malampuzha as part of a drive against suspected marijuana cultivation was rescued on Saturday after they lost themselves in the jungle. The 13-member police team had penetrated over 10 km into deep forest when they lost their way and could not return on Friday. A search was soon launched for the missing team that included Malampuzha Inspector Sunil Krishnan, Walayar sub-inspector Rajesh, and special squad sub-inspector Jaleel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-team-that-lost-way-returns/article36924074.ece
10 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elderly couple found dead||An elderly couple was found dead at Chalisseri, near Pattambi, on Saturday. The charred bodies of Narayanan Vadakkepurakkal, 74, and wife Indira, 70, were found in a shed near their house. The bodies were found tied together and burnt. Narayanan had retired from government service as a health inspector. The police suspect the death as a case of suicide. The bodies were shifted to Government Medical College, Thrissur. An investigation is on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000, DISHA - 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-couple-found-dead/article36924230.ece
10 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||9 hurt as military truck overturns||Nine persons, including eight soldiers, were injured when a military personnel carrier truck overturned on the National Highway 544 at Kanjikode near here on Saturday. The truck was heading for Thiruvananthapuram from Secunderabad carrying 18 soldiers of the Madras Regiment’s 11th battalion. It overturned while trying to save a pedestrian who crossed the highway. The injured soldiers were identified as Santhosh, Bimalesh, Balu, Murthy, Marutharaj, Anandaraj, Vinod and Manoj Kumar. They were admitted to Government District Hospital here. Their injuries were not serious. The pedestrian hit by the truck crossing the road was identified as Sivaraman from Kanjikode. He was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-hurt-as-truck-overturns/article36924039.ece
10 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta on edge as heavy rain lashes region||The heavy rain lashing the region since Thursday has brought Pathanamthitta district on the edge on Saturday. The water level in all major rivers across the region recorded a steady rise. The floodwaters gushing from the upper reaches of the district have threatened to damage standing crops in low-lying areas. The torrential rain has ensured copious inflow to the dams in the district, all of which are close to the full reservoir level. In Pathanamthitta, the Kakki forests received the highest rainfall of 106 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 9 a.m. on Saturday, followed by the Pampa region with 88 mm. Orange alert The Kerala State Electricity Board Dam Safety Authority declared an orange alert for the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir with the water level reaching 977.04 metres by 7 a.m. on Saturday. In case of the water level reaching 977.45 metre, a red alert will be issued, and water will be released from the reservoir at a controlled rate after 8 a.m. on October 10. The situation, however, is expected to change with a scheduled modification in the upper rule level, which stipulates the maximum water level in the reservoir to become 978.83 metres between October 11 to 20. In view of the continuing heavy rain in the Sabarimala forests and the rainfall forecasts for the region in the coming days , District Collector Divya S. Iyer has urged the people living on both sides of the Pampa and the Kakkattar rivers to exercise caution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-on-edge-as-heavy-rain-lashes-region/article36924137.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quicker decision on building permits||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has issued a directive to officials to reduce delay in the processing of building permits and to ensure timely action against illegal constructions. The directives, issued by the Secretary, are meant to fix responsibility at various levels so that applications are not held up at any level. A recent assessment of building permit-related files revealed problems, including laxity in issuing notices against illegal constructions, lack of follow-up action even in cases in which notices were issued, lack of action on complaints, failure to comply with court orders, and lack of clarity in responses. Now, assistant engineers (AE) will be put in charge as nodal officers for all kinds of building permits. This has been done after noticing a delay in processing the files owing to reluctance of top officials to take responsibility. The officials have to ensure that all the required documents are submitted at the time of application for building permits. The applicant has to be informed of the missing documents and asked to submit the entire set. The applications received have to be entered in the building application register and handed over to the overseer or AE, who have to conduct a site visit within five days to check whether all rules are being followed. In case of discrepancies, the applicant has to be informed within five days. For files related to larger buildings, which have to be sent to the higher authorities, the AE has to ensure that the Assistant Executive Engineers decide on them within three days, the Executive Engineers within six days, and the Secretary, within 10 days. All actions, including issuance of notice, permit clearance or rejection, have to be noted in the building application register. In the case of illegal constructions, notice has to be issued under Section 406 of the Kerala Municipal Act. Notice has to be issued for a hearing if the explanation is unsatisfactory and the illegal construction is not regularised. Action, including demolition, can be taken if the owner refuses to follow the directives. Failure to take action against illegal constructions in any zone, using lack of complaints as a reason, will be seen as dereliction of duty. Occupancy certificates Though the rules state that occupancy certificates have to be provided within 15 days of submitting application, this does not happen in most cases. For this purpose, a similar fixing of responsibility and maximum time permissible for action to be taken at various levels has been specified, on the lines of building permit applications.  Assistant engineers will be put in charge as nodal officers for all kinds of building permits Action, including demolition, can be taken if the owner of an illegal construction refuses to follow directives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quicker-decision-on-building-permits/article36924295.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rumblings in BJP seem to get shriller||The rumblings of discontent in the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seem to get shriller. The grumbles appear linked partly to the “exclusion” of Sobha Surendran and P.K. Krishnadas from the BJP’s national executive. It is also reportedly connected to the “arbitrary” nomination of five BJP district presidents; a few reckoned to be “loyalists” of the State leadership. By some accounts, discontent is also rife within the BJP for the “failure” to hold the State leadership accountable for the party’s “slide from the peak of political and social influence in Kerala in 2016 to an embarrassing loss of ground in the 2021 Assembly elections’’. Similar crisis A similar crisis in the Congress has precipitated a redistribution of organisational responsibilities. However, the power equations in the BJP remain unaltered. A recent indication of the shadowy revolt in the BJP is an intense and arguably indignant Facebook post by Ms. Surendran. She appears to take a dig at her detractors in the BJP by harking back to the puranic tale of Prahlada and Hiranyakashipu. The latter, a powerful demon king, had tormented Prahlada, a devotee of Vishnu, for refusing to worship him. Subsequently, Narasimha, a fierce avatar of Vishnu, destroyed Hiranyakashipu. “It would do well for most to remember the lesson the tale holds,” she wrote somewhat ominously. Ms. Surendran’s is reportedly not the sole voice of dissent in the BJP. Supporters of Mr. Krishnadas, a former BJP State president, are miffed that the party has removed him from the national executive. BJP former State secretary A.M. Nazeer, for long the minority face of the party in Kerala, had recently slammed the current State leadership for its “embarrassing mismanagement” of election funds. Former BJP State president C.K. Padmanabhan had raised a few eyebrows by skipping the party’s core committee meeting and supposedly praising Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh had stressed the need for consensus recently. BJP State president K. Surendran has repeatedly denied any rift in the party and attributed the “rumours” to a few malcontents.  Sobha Surendran appears to take a dig at her detractors by harking back to a puranic tale||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rumblings-in-bjp-seem-to-get-shriller/article36924075.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain may continue in State||The current rainfall is expected to intensify across the State in the week ahead with some districts likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put all districts except Thrissur, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on either yellow or orange alert till October 13. Rainfall over Kerala is likely to be widespread under the influence of a cyclonic circulation which persists over the east-central part of the Arabian Sea. Yellow alert Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode are on yellow alert on Sunday and Monday. Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki are on orange alert on Tuesday and Wednesday. Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode are on yellow alert on these days, according to a 4 p.m. IMD weather update on Saturday. Meanwhile, a low pressure area is very likely to form over the north Andaman Sea by Sunday. It is likely to intensify further and move west-northwestwards towards the south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coast. While the IMD has not barred fishing activity along the Karnataka, Kerala and Lakshadweep coasts, it said that squally weather is expected over the east-central Arabian Sea and along and off the south Gujarat coast till Sunday. Fishermen have been asked to stay away from these areas. Excess rainfall In the first nine days of October, Kerala has recorded 80% excess rainfall, which amounts to a ‘large excess’ in IMD parlance, for the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-may-continue-in-state/article36924078.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bring witnesses from Nepal in abuse case of minor: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that witnesses be brought back from Nepal immediately in a case pertaining to sexual abuse of a girl from Nepal in Balussery. The commission directed the Home Secretary and the State and the District Police Chiefs to constitute a special team if needed. Commission member B. Babitha was suo motu taking action on a letter from the Koyilandy Fast Track Special Court about failure to execute non-bailable warrants issued against the witnesses (the girl’s parents). The girl was sexually abused in November last year and a man from Kozhikode was arrested in this regard. Though the Kozhikode child welfare committee ordered that the child be given shelter at the Women and Children Home in Kozhikode, the mother declined the offer, and the girl was permitted to remain with her parents. House found locked After the commission directed that interim relief be provided to the child under compensation schemes, personnel deputed to serve summons found their home locked and the child and the parents missing. The girl’s father who was contacted over phone promised to appear before the court but failed to turn up. On enquiry, it was revealed that the child and the parents had left for Nepal. Executing the warrants and bringing them back would take some time, the District Police Chief said in a report. Interim compensation The Koyilandy Special Judge, meanwhile, directed the State government to pay the interim compensation of Rs. 1 lakh by way of cheque or account transfer to meet the immediate needs of the victim. The commission observed that for successful prosecution, the presence of the witnesses had to be ensured through Indian Embassy officials in Nepal. The Home Secretary and the State Police Chief, it said, should ensure the presence of witnesses before the court for trial in cases where the witnesses are from another State or country. The panel directed the Kozhikode Collector and the District Child Protection Officer to disburse the interim compensation to the witnesses and arrange for their accommodation when the reached the State. The police should provide protection to the witnesses to enable them to give evidence before the court, the commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bring-witnesses-from-nepal-in-abuse-case-of-minor-panel/article36924265.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Techie arrested on blackmail charge||The Kadakkavur police have arrested a techie on charge of threatening to circulate on social media the photographs of women he met on such platforms. The accused was identified as Shyam Suresh, 28, alias Jerry, of Ambattur in Chennai. Shyam used to befriend women on Instagram and WhatsApp, get hold of their photographs and videos, and extort gold and cash from them with threats. Complaints The Kadakkavur police had received complaints from women who had lost gold and cash after meeting Shyam, who identified himself as Jerry. They registered a case. A special squad formed under District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) was conducting investigations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka with the support of the cyber cell when Shyam was arrested from Bengaluru. The investigating team had found that he was working in a prominent IT firm and arrested him from there. A word of caution The police said he had used a similar modus operandi in other parts of Kerala too. He would filter his photograph to lure girls and send friendship requests through social media using the addresses of IT firms in Bengaluru, Chennai, and Kerala. Shyam was produced in court and remanded. The police cautioned that online friendship requests from strangers should not be accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/techie-arrested-on-blackmail-charge/article36924293.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Amendments to Act will hit KSEB: Minister||The amendments proposed by the Centre to the Electricity Act will adversely impact the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty has said. The Minister was addressing the 68th annual conference of the KSEB Engineers’ Association. There is a need to establish more power generation stations to meet the rising electricity demand in the State. The State government was also exploring the possibility of establishing more small hydel projects that would make use of tail-race flows, he said. A seminar on the ‘Role of the energy sector in the hydrogen economy’ was held. The conference elected Sunil K. as the president of the association and Geetha V.S. as the general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amendments-to-act-will-hit-kseb-minister/article36924291.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mental health care paramount: Veena||Making mental health services available at the primary health level itself is important, Minister for Health Veena George has said. In a statement ahead of World Mental Health Day on Sunday, the Minister said ‘Mental health in an unequal world’ was this year’s theme for Mental Health Day. With the world fighting against COVID-19 for more than a year-and-a-half, mental health could be neglected. The Health Department was taking steps to address this, Ms. George said. Mental health programmes were implemented in every district through 291 mental health clinics, community health centres, and taluk hospitals. More than 40,000 patients were being provided treatment and other mental health services. Various projects To make mental health services available at the primary health centre level, projects such as Sampoorna Manasikarogyam, Aswasam, Amma Manassu, and Jeevaraksha were being implemented as part of the Ardram mission. Nearly 18,000 people were treated through the complete mental health programme in 376 grama panchayats. Treatment and other support was being made available to them at the nearest family health centres. Counselling The ‘Ottakalla Oppamundu’ psycho-social support programme was also being implemented during the pandemic. More than 1.25 lakh psycho-social support/counselling calls had been made by the team during this period. Mental health programmes were being implemented in tribal belts too with focus on substance abuse and adolescent mental health problems. Nineteen de-addiction centres were functioning under the Health Department. In addition, 14 such centres were functioning as part of the Vimukthi programme of the Excise and Health departments. Treatment was also available through the 291 clinics under the mental health programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/primary-centres-should-give-mental-health-care/article36924030.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two held on theft charge||The police have arrested two youths on the charge of theft after breaking into a house and a shop. Inspector General of Police and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified them as Taufeek, 20, and Rashid, 28, of Manikyavilakom, Muttathara. Laptop, cash In August last, the accused had broken into a house at Pettah and stolen a laptop and Rs. 3,000 and then entered a supermarket at Palkulangara after breaking open the door and made away with cash and products. A special team led by Vanchiyoor Station House Officer Dipin was formed to nab the accused on the directions of Shanghumughom Assistant Commissioner D.K. Prithviraj. The team went through CCTV visuals and collected details of others who had a similar modus operandi before arresting Taufeek and Rashid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-theft-charge/article36924294.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Asian Law College wins A.D.R. contest||Saima Firdous, Paras Nath Mishra, and Harshit Varshney from Asian Law College, Noida were declared winners of the 2nd National A.D.R. (Alternate Dispute Resolution) Competition 2021 organised by the Kerala Law Academy Moot Court Society and A.D.R. Forum here on Saturday. The team secured a cash award of Rs. 15,000. Aadya Gowda, C.V. Abhinav Menon, and Khyati Kapoor of School of Law, Christ University, Bengaluru became the runners-up. Pallab Das, Assistant Professor of Law, Bennett University, inaugurated the valedictory function. Jonathan Rodrigues, Civil and Commercial Mediator; Shikhar Srivastava, Advocate on Record, Supreme Court of India; Nagaraj Narayanan, Director, Kerala Law Academy; and Hareendran K., Principal, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asian-law-college-wins-adr-contest/article36924298.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Appeal for COVID death registration||The Health Department has made arrangements to register COVID-19 deaths under the revised guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The official death information portal (https://covid19.kerala. gov.in/deathinfo) is being equipped to receive appeals for certificates under the new norms. Health Minister Veena George said on Saturday the new system would become operational on Sunday. Cases that could be classified as COVID deaths under the new guidelines, those that had not been included on the State COVID death list, and cases involving complaints could be registered as COVID deaths. Citizens could also apply online through public health centres and Akshaya centres. The decision on appeals would be taken within 30 days of application. The applicant would be required to upload the details given in the death certificate issued by the local body, with the documents issued by the hospital and personal details. Citizens could also apply for ICMR model death certificate by providing details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appeal-for-covid-death-registration/article36924079.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 9,470 fresh cases, 101 deaths||As many as 9,470 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported across the State on Saturday, taking the active caseload to 1,13,132. The COVID death toll in Kerala rose to 26,173 with the addition of 101 deaths. A total of 88,310 samples were tested during the last 24 hours. The highest number of fresh cases was reported in Ernakulam (1,337), followed by Thiruvananthapuram (1,261) and Thrissur (930). On Saturday, 927 positive cases were hospitalised and 12,881 patients were discharged on testing negative. Authorities clamped down on 332 wards in 227 local bodies with a Weekly Infection Population Ratio of 10 and above. Of the 101 deaths, 54 were from other States and 8,971 had picked up the infection through contact while the source of infection could not be ascertained in 397 cases. Forty-eight health workers were among those infected. As many as 3,66,250 citizens are under surveillance, of which 3,52,851 are in house or institutional quarantine and 13,399 in hospitals. An official ote issued here said 93.3% of citizens eligible for vaccination in State had received the first dose while 43.6% got both doses. With this, Kerala has become the State with the highest vaccination per million (1,02,506). Of the 9,470 fresh COVID cases reported on Saturday, 2,543 had received the first dose and 2,821 both doses while 2,551 were not vaccinated. The increase in the number of fresh cases had gone down by 26% over last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-9470-fresh-cases-101-deaths/article36924081.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Meet to explore overseas job options||The Overseas Employers’ Conference, which seeks to throw light on the trends and emerging opportunities in overseas job markets that were crippled by COVID-19, will be held in Thiruvananthapuram on October 12. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the one-day conference which will be held online and at the Sankaranarayanan Thampi Hall in the Assembly complex. The event, which will see participation by ambassadors to different countries, senior diplomats, Central Government officials, and business personalities, is organised by the Department of NoRKA. Participants can interact with experts in the overseas job scene on requirements under the new normal and emerging job markets abroad. The conference will also touch upon the multiple aspects of migration. For attending the sessions online, register free on https://registrations.ficci.com/ficoec/online-registrationi.asp. For details, call 0484-4058041, 4058042, 9847198809. E-mail: kesc@ficci.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/overseas-employers-meet/article36924031.ece
10 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State seeks action against professor||The State Government has written to the Union Government and the University of Delhi seeking action against a professor for his ‘marks jihad’ remarks. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty wrote to the Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan and the Vice Chancellor of the University of Delhi alleging that Kirori Mal College professor Rakesh Kumar Pandey made communal and racist remarks about students from Kerala. ‘Creating animosity’ The professor’s remarks could create animosity between students, the Minister said, seeking penal and departmental-level action against the teacher who is a member of the RSS-affiliated National Democratic Teachers’ Front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marks-jihad-state-seeks-action-against-professor/article36924146.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No approval for new ration shops, says Minister||The Government has not given approval for new ration shops, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R.Anil said here on Saturday. He said that fake messages are being spread making claims that the Government had given clearance for new ration shops. Around 2,000 ration shops, including the ones with their licenses suspended and attached to other existing shops, are facing various actions from the Government currently. Licences cancelled Out of the 2,000 shops, licences of 599 shops have been cancelled. Instructions have been issued to hand these over to new licensees following reservation norms. This action is being used to create an impression that the Government has given approval for new shops, said Mr. Anil.  He said that rationing officials have been asked to ensure that priority cards are not issued to undeserving beneficiaries. Those who have undeservedly got priority cards can return it until October 15, after which strict action will be taken. The Minister was replying to queries in his monthly phone-in programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-approval-given-for-new-ration-shops-says-anil/article36924147.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 1,261 new cases||The district reported new 1,261 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate stood at 12.3%. The death toll in the district due to the pandemic has crossed 4,000. As on Friday, the district has recorded 4,026 COVID-19 deaths, show official data. Twenty-nine recent deaths were added to the official list on Friday. The district has so far recorded 4,38,558 COVID-19 cases, and 4,21,381 recoveries. In all, 12,939 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. On Saturday, the district also reported 2,241 recoveries, even as 2,840 people went into quarantine. In all, 46,870 people are currently in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-reports-1261-new-cases/article36924296.ece
10 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||A journalist must reveal truth: Minister||A journalist has the moral responsibility to reveal truth with at most clarity irrespective of challenges, Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a function to present T.V. Achutha Warrier Memorial awards instituted by the Thrissur Press Club on Saturday. “Achutha Warrier was a true example for responsible and courageous journalism,” he recalled. Achutha Warrier awards were presented to Manoj Chemanchery and M. Arun. Nine journalists, who were retiring from various media institutions in Thrissur, were given farewell. Revenue Minister K. Rajan and T.N. Prathapan, MP, too participated. Press Club president K. Prabhad presided over. KUWJ State general secretary E.S. Subhash delivered the keynote address and former Press Club president V.M. Radhakrishnan delivered the Achutha Warrier remembrance speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-journalist-must-reveal-truth-minister/article36924027.ece
10 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Theft attempt at Canara Bank ATM at Thirur||An attempt to rob an ATM of Canara Bank at Thirur, near Thrissur, was made on Saturday. Thieves tried to break open the ATM machine of the Mulangunnathukavu branch of the bank at Thirur using a gas cutter in the wee hours on Saturday. According to preliminary information money has not been stolen. A newspaper agent, who went to withdraw money from the ATM, informed the police after he saw burn marks on the ATM machine. A cutter machine was also found nearby. CCTV visuals showed a person in raincoat and helmet reaching the ATM around 2.45 a.m. He returned around 3.10 a.m. and tried to damage the camera by spraying something on it. It is suspected that he came back with a gas cutter. Though the bank is also functioning close to the ATM there was no security staff there. The police and forensic experts are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-attempt-at-canara-bank-atm-at-thirur/article36924231.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Not so pretty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/menace-for-farmers/article36924267.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In unison||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-unison/article36924046.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Death trap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-trap/article36924054.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making the leap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-the-leap/article36924023.ece
10 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another inquiry ordered against Anantapur DPO||Anantapur District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan has ordered an inquiry by Joint Collector (A&W) Gangadhar Goud into allegations of corruptions against District Panchayat Officer (FAC) B. Parvathi, who is already facing a criminal case under Section 409 of IPC for the alleged misappropriation of funds at Banaganapalle in Kurnool district. The order came after five persons gave a written complaint against her following which the officer has summoned 16 employees of the District Panchayat Office at Anantapur and depose before him with material and proofs to support their charges. While the inquiry officer has put up the notice on the official board, the persons, who had made some corruption charges, need to identify themselves and produce any evidence they have to substantiate their allegations on October 12. The Kurnool District Collector had initiated the process of filing of the criminal case against the Anantapur District Panchayat Officer for allegedly misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs. 6,09,61,875 when she was working as Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer in Kurnool district. Banaganapalle Circle Inspector Subba Rayudu told The Hindu that they had not made a second attempt to arrest Ms. Parvathi as the police were awaiting documents from the Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer with regard to the case. The Panchayat Raj Commissionerate had asked the Kurnool Collector to proceed with filing a criminal case against her. Meanwhile, Ms. Parvathi had obtained anticipatory bail from the A.P. High Court and after that, she had joined back duties after taking leave for a month. After joining the duties, she was reinstated as District Panchayat Officer with Full Additional Charge as she was Divisional Panchayat Officer at Dharmavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-inquiry-ordered-against-anantapur-dpo/article36924206.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. hospitals in Karnataka facing shortage of basic drugs||Government hospitals in the State are now facing an acute shortage of basic drugs including paracetamol, antibiotics and anti-histamine and are being forced to write prescriptions for patients to buy the same from outside. Sources said there has been an irregular/short supply of basic drugs in all hospitals run by the State Health Department and hospital authorities are unable to get supplies even after four months of indenting.  Hospital authorities said that except intravenous fluids, all essential medical supplies including suture and bandage material, catheter, gloves and basic drugs have been in short supply since May. “With non-COVID services resuming from June-July in all government hospitals, the daily patient flow has increased considerably and is almost equal to what was seen in the pre-COVID days. But we do not have the required drugs and are facing the wrath of patients when we write out prescriptions for them to buy from outside,” said a senior doctor from a district hospital in North Karnataka. Insufficient funds A senior anaesthetist from another district hospital said the short supply can be attributed to tenders not being floated by the Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation Ltd. (KSMSCL) in the last two years. “Besides, the National Free Drugs Service (NFDS) funds for district hospitals to procure drugs locally have not been released in the last six months,” the doctor said. He said the usual allotment of Rs. 25 lakh under this scheme for district hospitals and Rs. 10 lakh for taluk hospitals has been reduced to Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh, respectively. “With a patient flow of over 1,500 daily and over 350 in-patients at any given time, a Rs. 10 lakh NFDS fund is not sufficient to meet the drug requirement even for a week,” the doctor said. BPL patients Another administrator doctor from a general hospital in Bengaluru said they are trying their best to ensure BPL patients are not put to hardship. “We have instructed all our doctors to not write out prescriptions for BPL patients as they cannot afford to buy medicines from outside. Instead of dispensing them the prescribed medicines for the required period in one go, we are rationing,” the doctor said. However, top health officials denied there is a short supply of drugs. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the KSMSCL is in the process of procuring regular drugs and annual tenders have been floated. “There is no shortage of drugs as hospitals have been authorised to procure locally through NFDS and Arogya Raksha Samithi (ARS) funds. Hospitals facing an issue can bring it to our notice,” he said. Slashed budget Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM), admitted that NFDS funds under NHM for districts had been reduced as the Centre had slashed the NHM budget for a few components. “We have been told these components need the 15th Finance Commission’s approval and are awaiting that. We have started releasing funds under NFDS to districts in the last few days. Districts can begin procurement soon,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-hospitals-in-bengaluru-facing-shortage-of-basic-drugs/article36923616.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 25 lakh cast votes in rural local bodies’ polls||About 25 lakh voters, accounting for 73.27% of the electors in nine newly constituted districts, exercised their franchise in the second phase of polling for the elections to the rural local bodies, amid sporadic incidents of clashes. Polling was largely peaceful, said an official of the State Election Commission (SEC). It covered 12,341 posts, including members of 62 district panchayat wards, 626 panchayat union wards and 10,329 village panchayat wards, besides 1,324 village panchayat presidents. The total number of electors in these districts was 34.77 lakh, of which women constituted 17.63 lakh; men 17.14 lakh and transgender persons 455. Polling began at 7 a.m, and the last one hour (5 p.m. to 6 p.m) was earmarked for COVID-19 patients or those having symptoms of the infection. Villupuram registered the highest turnout with 83.6%, followed by Kallakurichi (82%) and Ranipet (75.3%). Tirupathur recorded 73.5%; Kancheepuram 72%; Chengalpattu and Tenkasi 70% each; Vellore 68%; and Tirunelveli 65%. Polling was also held as part of the by-elections to 424 posts of the rural local bodies in 28 other districts. In Coimbatore, where the by-elections were held for a district panchayat ward member, two village panchayat presidents and 10 village panchayat ward members, 70.85% of 77,104 voters exercised their franchise as of 5 p.m. In the southern region, polling went off without any incident in the newly constituted Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, which went to the regular elections, as also in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Dindigul and Theni, all of which had by-elections. In the Gerugambakkam village panchayat in Kancheepuram, a clash broke out between members of the ruling DMK and the AMMK. A similar incident was reported in Sandhaivellur village near Sunguvarchatram, involving supporters of the PMK and the AIADMK. As the police intervened, polling resumed at the two places. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran urged the authorities to act against those responsible for the incident at Gerugumbakkam. Meanwhile, residents, who are mostly tribals, in Nayakkaneri village, which has around 3,500 voters, on the hillock near Ambur in Tirupatur district boycotted the elections on Saturday protesting against the move of being reserved for SC category from its earlier general category claiming that majority in the village are Scheduled Tribes (ST). Polling was countermanded in a booth in Puducherry village near Poonthandalam in Kundrathur block of the same district due to a mix-up in ballot papers. At a booth in the Konganallur village panchayat of the Anaicut panchayat union, Vellore, a 35-year-old construction worker, S. Venketasan, was allegedly stabbed by a 28-year-old person. Both belong to the same village. The suspect fled the spot. The Anaicut police have filed a case and opened an investigation. “The incident is not related to polling,” said S. Selvakumar, SP (Vellore). More than 500 voters at Virpattu in the Vallam block boycotted the elections. The villagers hoisted black flags in their houses demanding that Virpattu be declared a separate village panchayat. AIADMK’s joint secretary for the advocates wing R.M. Babu Murugavel, in a representation to the SEC, called for webcasting and telecasting to be made at the time of counting and the relay of the process outside the counting places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-25-lakh-cast-votes-in-rural-local-body-polls-in-tn/article36923752.ece
10 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notorious red sanders smuggler held||Personnel of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Saturday nabbed one of the most wanted red sanders smuggling operative allegedly having links with global syndicates, G. Ramanatha Reddy of Kadapa district, along with three of his accomplices at Nadumuru check-post on the Kuppam-Krishnagiri highway, and seized 66 logs along with a container lorry and an SUV worth Rs. 60 lakh. Addressing a press conference, Joint Director (SEB) V. Vidyasagar Naidu said that acting on reliable information about the movement of the contraband towards Karnataka, a special party was formed which laid in wait at the check-post. Around 3 a.m., the police intercepted the two vehicles, and nabbed four occupants, while one of them turned out to be Ramanatha Reddy. The accused and the seized goods were brought to District Police Office here. The Joint Director said that Ramanatha Reddy was involved 60 cases pertaining to red sanders smuggling in Chittoor, Anantapur, Kadapa, Kurnool and Nellore districts. As per police records, the accused allegedly played a vital role in exporting over 500 tonnes of red sanders logs worth over Rs. 1,000 crore to West Asia after forming ties with notorious Dubai-based smuggling operative Sahul Bhai. He was also a key accused along with Kollam Gangi Reddy in a case pertaining to seizure of 32 tonnes of logs in 2013. He had also maintained close links with Kolkata-based international smuggling operative Lakshman. At present, Ramanatha Reddy, a native of Chapadu mandal of Kadapa district, is residing at Vinjamuru in SPSR Nellore district. His three accomplices, identified as Eeshwar Reddy (43), Chinna Mallaiah (33) and S. Bhimaiah (40), all belonging to Kadapa district, are also wanted in several cases of red sanders smuggling in Rayalaseema districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-nabs-red-sanders-smuggling-kingpin/article36923618.ece
10 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy drowns in construction pit in Tirupati||A five-year- old boy died and another is critical after they reportedly fell into a rainwater-filled construction pit at a housing colony at Oteru village, on outskirts of Tirupati, on Saturday. As per police, Teja (5) and Vijay (6), children of migrant construction worker families from the northern States, accidentally fell into the pit while playing at a distance. Hearing commotion, the workers rushed to their rescue, but Teja died. Vijay was rushed to SVRR Hospital and admitted to the emergency ward. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-drowns-in-construction-pit-in-tirupati/article36924207.ece
10 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thanks to Disha app, girl rescued from molestation bid||Within two minutes of getting an alert through Disha App, the police on Friday evening rescued a 20-year-old girl from being molested by a miscreant at the RTC bus-station at Madanapalle, and arrested the accused. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said the girl was waiting to board a bus to her village when the accused, Pawan of Madanapalle, took advantage of the thin presence of commuters and allegedly kept making objectionable advances at her. The girl then alerted the police through the Disha App on her mobile phone. Within two minutes, a police team of Madanapalle II-Town got the alert and rushed to the spot. When the accused tried to escape he was taken into custody. The girl thanked the police personnel who came to her rescue. The SP said that prompted by the success stories of the Disha App, which led to the arrest of the accused in three episodes so far in a span of one month in Chittoor district, more and more women, mostly the youth and students, were coming forward to download the App. The SP announced cash reward to the Disha police team at Madanapalle..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-rescued-from-molestation-bid-thanks-to-disha-app/article36924208.ece
10 October 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||In ‘captivity’ ahead of VIP visit||Local authorities, who shut down all business establishments in Sringeri for President Ram Nath Kovind’s five-hour visit, also rounded up stray cattle and dogs before his arrival on Friday. The town panchayat had captured over 35 head of cattle and around 130 stray dogs and kept them in captivity until the President left the temple town. Mr. Kovind, along with his family members, visited Sringeri Sharada Peetha on Friday and was in town between 11.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. Prior to this, the town panchayat officials drove all the cattle roaming in the town limits to a vacant place near the agriculture market and locked them up. They hired a special team to capture stray dogs too. All these measures were taken to “avoid any untoward incident” during his visit, they said. T. Leelavathi, chief officer of the town panchayat, told The Hindu that the cattle and dogs captured were all released on Friday evening soon after the President left the town. “Our staff took good care of the animals after capturing them,” she said. When asked if it was indeed necessary to capture the animals, the officer said the panchayat followed the orders of the Deputy Commissioner of Chikkamagaluru. Though the officers said the animals had been let off at the place where they were captured, local people alleged that many dogs were released in nearby villages. Naveen Karuvane, a leader of Raitha Sangha, said that a special team, hired by the town panchayat, let off dogs near Hindruvalli. “The animals have been roaming in villages,” he said. The residents said that though Presidents have visited Sringeri, never before were so many restrictions in place. “Businessmen had no business for two days. The animals too had to suffer,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-captivity-ahead-of-vip-visit/article36923757.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes Hyderabad||The horror of torrential downpour revisited the city on Saturday too, causing flooding, inundations and traffic jams as usual. Starting after 4 p.m., heavy rain continuously lashed the city for about an hour, creating mayhem on roads. Several areas reported deafening thunderbolts accompanied by lightning to add to the fury. Secunderabad received the highest rainfall at close to 10 centimetres, followed by Begumpet at about 9 centimetres as at 7 p.m. Eight flood gates of Himayatsagar and four of Osmansagar were lifted to release surplus water into Musi river. Low lying areas in the Musi river banks were alerted about the same. Inundation of roads caused tedious traffic jams on all the arterial roads, extending the travel time indefinitely for the commuters. Friday's onslaught of rain had already left the city half crippled, with all areas prone to flooding experiencing severe inundation. Chandan Cheruvu of Jillelaguda overflowed as is witnessed upon every instance of heavy rain, with surplus flows flooding the main road. All the surrounding colonies had their streets drowned, at times in chest deep water. Kodandaram Nagar, downstream of Saroornagar lake, had swirling flows from the lake, and together with the sewage overflow, gave a repeat nightmare to the residents. Several localities in the eastern city such as Hayatnagar, Champapet, Vanasthalipuram, Panama Godowns, among others, experienced severe flooding. A person had a miraculous escape at Chintalkunta when his bike skidded into an open manhole and he was washed away with the flood water till he managed to climb up the next manhole. About 150 families were shifted to safer location when Lambadi Tanda Colony of Hayatnagar was submerged. Close to 40 two wheelers were crushed when compound wall of the Asian Shiva-Ganga theatre complex in Gaddiannaram collapsed under the impact of rain. Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi toured the flood affected localities in LB Nagar and Charminar zones on Friday night, and alerted officials towards action. She inspected flooding in Pavan Puri Colony, Agamaiah Colony, Malreddy Ranga Reddy Colony, Uday Nagar Colony, Lingojiguda and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-city/article36924002.ece
10 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KSCCL gets new head||Alli Rajababu Yadav has taken charge as chairman of Kakinada Smart City Corporation Limited (KSCCL) here on Saturday. Kakinada Municipal Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar, MLA D. Chandrasekhara Reddy, Kakinada Urban Development Authority chairperson Ragireddy Chandrakala Deepthi and corporators congratulated him. . Mr. Rajababu said he would strive for the development of Kakinada city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ksccl-gets-new-head/article36924241.ece
10 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 persons arrested for cricket betting||Thirteen persons have been arrested in connection with cricket betting at Rajapudi village in Jaggampeta mandal in East Godavari district on Saturday. The Peddapuram divisional police arrested the 13-member gang. “The gang was engaged in cricket betting at a house belonging to Boosala Vishnu Murthy, who is the kingpin in the case. Cash of Rs. 1.26 lakh, two computers and five mobile phones have been seized,” Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said. Police are searching for more people involved in the betting racket. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-persons-arrested-on-charge-of-cricket-betting/article36924240.ece
10 October 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jacobites reiterate allegiance to Patriarch of Antioch||The Jacobite Syrian Christian Church has reiterated that the church would continue its allegiance to the Patriarch of Antioch under all circumstances and there will be no compromise on the issue. A church spokesman said here on Saturday that the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church had denounced the spiritual leadership of the Patriarch of Antioch. Any compromise on the issue could be reached only through the recognition of the spiritual leadership of the Patriarch. He claimed that the Supreme Court verdicts in the Church case in 1958, 1995, and 2017 had said that the Patriarch was the head and the Malankara Church was part of the global Syrian Church, said the communication. ‘Forcefully taken over’ A communication from the Jacobite Church claimed though 58 churches were forcefully taken over by the Orthodox faction and members were ousted, there had not been any change in allegiance from the Jacobite Church. It had also been decided to elect an auxiliary for Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, considering his age. The episcopal synod would decide on the auxiliary, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jacobites-reiterate-allegiance-to-patriarch-of-antioch/article36923624.ece
10 October 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||IUML leader’s son told to repay bank loan by Oct. 21||Steps have been initiated to attach the property of E.T. Feroze, son of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader E.T. Mohammad Basheer, MP, following non-repayment of a bank loan of over Rs. 200 crore. The action was initiated on the basis of a petition moved by the Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank in the Kozhikode Chief Judicial Magistrate’s (CJM) Court saying that Mr. Feroze had failed to repay the loan for Annam Steels Pvt. Ltd. in Chennai. He is the managing director of the company. The court-appointed advocate commission P.T Sreenarayanan Unni issued notices to Mr. Feroze and other directors stating that further action would be taken if the debt was not repaid by October 21. This follows a directive by A. Fathima Beevi, Kozhikode CJM, on a petition filed against 21 respondents, including the company managing director and other directors. If the loan is not repaid, the commission has been empowered to take over about 15 mortgages, including a shopping complex in the city, and hand them over to the bank. However, Mr. Feroze and others have sought time to repay the loans. They would approach a higher court against the recovery procedures. The case related to the company borrowing Rs. 200 crore from two banks in 2013. The loan was to procure iron scrap through auction from government-owned Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Limited. The agreement was to repay the money within two years. The action was initiated now based on a petition filed by the banks in 2017. The court had on the same day appointed the advocate commission. But the acquisition was delayed as Annam Steels approached a higher court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iuml-leaders-son-told-to-repay-loan-by-october-21/article36923614.ece
10 October 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested on charge of moral policing||The Moodbidri police on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of indulging in moral policing by abusing two women who were travelling in a car. City Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar in a communique said the incident occurred on Moodbidri outskirts on Saturday morning. About six to eight people waylaid a car in which a couple along with two other women were travelling. After enquiring about the religion of the two women and finding out they belong to a different religion from that of the couple, the accused allegedly insulted them. All the occupants of the car were residents of Karkala taluk in Udupi district. Stating that cases under Sections 354, 153a, 504, and 506 IPC were registered against the accused, Mr. Kumar added that search was on for the remaining accused. The arrested were identified as Samhithraj, 36, and Sandeep Poojary, 34.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-arrested-on-charge-of-moral-policing/article36923664.ece
10 October 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four arrested on charge of raping minor||The Bantwal Town police on Saturday arrested four persons on the charge of raping a minor girl. While two had allegedly raped the girl in a Mangaluru lodge on Friday, one allegedly molested her besides providing a lodge room to commit the offence and another accused had allegedly engaged in sexual chat with the 16-year-old. According to Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, separate teams were formed to nab the accused soon after the girl reported the incident to the police on Friday. K.S. Sharath Shetty, a resident of Kaup, Maruthi Manjunath, Lodge Sathish, and Hidayatulla have been arrested. Mr. Sonawane said Sharath had befriended the girl on Facebook and was in touch with her regularly over phone. He then introduced the girl to his relative Maruthi Manjunath who developed intimacy with her and indulged in sexual chat over WhatsApp. Sharath on October 8 asked the victim to visit Mangaluru and she met him near City Mall. After convincing the girl, Sharath allegedly took her to a lodge in the city and raped her. Later, he invited his friend Hidayatulla to the lodge and the latter too raped her. Sathish, another accused, had provided Sharath and the girl a room to stay at the lodge and had also allegedly molested the girl. The girl later returned to Bantwal in a bus. The police have booked them under sections 366(a)(Abduction), 376(D)(rape), 506 of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act. The victim is currently admitted in a government hospital in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-arrested-on-charge-of-raping-minor/article36923665.ece
10 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP to support BJP in Badvel bypoll||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) will extend its support to the BJP in the by-election to the Badvel Assembly seat on October 30, according to JSP Political Affairs Committee chairman N. Manohar. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Manohar explained that as per a convention to facilitate a sitting deceased MLA’s family member to win the seat uncontested, the party had decided not to enter the fray. But the BJP, as per its national policy, had fielded P. Suresh in the by-election that had been necessitated by the death of YSRCP MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah.  Financial crisis A major financial crisis stared at the State in the wake of “indiscriminate borrowings” by the YSRCP government, Mr. Manohar said. “There is nil development as the promised big-ticket projects remain only on paper. People are suffering due to power outages, especially in the rural areas,” he said after touring Parchur and other villages in Prakasam district.  Party worker’s death Justice eluded the family of the party worker, Vengaiah, in Prakasam district who had been forced to take the extreme step allegedly due to the “harassment by a ruling party MLA in Giddalur” after he had raised the bad condition of roads in his village, Mr. Manohar said Instead of making personal attacks on JSP president Pawan Kalyan, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy should focus on developing Prakasam district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-to-support-bjp-in-badvel-bypoll/article36924220.ece
10 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna colonies a scam: JSP||The High Court’s direction to stop construction of houses for the poor in view of alleged violation regulations is a slap in the face of the YSRCP government, Jana Sena Party (JSP) Political Affairs Committee chairman N. Manohar said. Mr. Manohar saw a Rs. 20,000 crore scam in the acquisition of land for the construction of the Jagananna housing colonies from private persons in places where no government land was unavailable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-colonies-a-scam-jsp/article36924218.ece
10 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A 33-year-old woman suffering from a rare solid pseudopapillary tumour(SPT) of the pancreas got a new lease of life after a team of oncologists at the HCG MNR Curie Cancer hospital here performed a ‘distal Pancreatectomy with splenectomy’ surgery. N. Ramana Reddy, surgical oncologist at the hospital told a media conference here on Saturday that the patient, Nagamani, came to the hospital with complaints of lump and abdomen pain. She was found suffering from a rare exocrine pancreatic tumour of 19 x 15 x 6 cm size after a CT scan. Surgical complications are high in such cases like pancreatic leak, fistula etc.,he said, after performing a subtotal pancreatectomy to treat the body and tail of pancreatic tumours as other treatment methods are found to be unsuccessful. “We have recommended to the government to include the procedure under the YSR Aarogyasri,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed/article36924210.ece
10 October 2021||SIDDIPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not enter lands, farmers tell officials in Telangana||Asserting their rights on the lands acquired for Thotapally reservoir by the Telangana Government, which was discarded later, the farmers of Ogulapur in Chigurumamidi mandal in Karimnagar district erected flex boards, asking officials not to enter their lands. The flexi boards appeared in the fields on Saturday, the day some revenue officials planned for a survey of lands in the village. “Officials of Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC), Irrigation and Revenue officials, please do not enter our lands. We do not allow any coercion of farmers by officials. Please return about 400 acres of lands that was acquired from farmers. Please give back the land to farmers under GO RT No. 79. Political leaders are preventing the Collector from handing over land to the farmers. The Collector of Siddipet had already started the process of returning the lands to farmers. The farmers had already approached the court,” read the flexiboard erected by farmers in the fields of Ogulapur on Saturday. “We came to know that efforts are on to allot these 400 acres not returned to farmers to food processing industry. We have every right on these lands that were acquired for the construction of Thotapally reservoir which was discarded later. We have also approached the High Court in this regard. The High Court has directed the authorities on October 3, 2020, to dispose of the case within six weeks,” K. Srinivas Reddy, a farmer from Ogupalur told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-enter-lands-farmers-tell-officials-in-telangana/article36923626.ece
10 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep improving skills, nursing students told||GEMS Medical College principal Lakshmi Lalita on Saturday asked B.Sc. Nursing students to keep improving their skills constantly in college and after successful completion of their course. Dr. Lalita was the chief guest at a ceremony organised in connection with the beginning of classes for a fresh batch of B.Sc., Nursing students. Dr. Lalita said that nursing was a noble profession and would provide an opportunity to serve the patients. Vice-principal N.Sanjeeva Rao said that the college had arranged for the best infrastructure and a library for the students to improve their skills and knowledge. GEMS Hospital Medical Superintendent Y. Mallikarjuna Rao, Bollineni Medskills Centre Head Ch. Nageswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-improving-skills-nursing-students-told/article36924243.ece
10 October 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a mission to bring back students to libraries||A teacher’s initiative is helping thousands of students to have libraries in their villages in Srikakulam district. Dabbiru Govinda Rao (53), working as a mathematics assistant at Zilla Parishad High School of Kintali village in Ponduru mandal of Srikakulam district strongly feels that academic studies alone would not ensure overall development of students. According to him, all children need to study epics, biographies of great leaders, and moral stories in order to develop all-round knowledge and a strong command over multiple languages. As many as 58 libraries were established in various places in the last five years through Mr. Govinda Rao’s efforts. In association with many elders and public representatives, Mr. Govinda Rao ensured establishment of libraries in small villages like Basivaada and Ramadasupeta in Jalumuru mandal, Rapaka, Jogannapeta and Laidam villages in Ponduru mandal, and Muddada in Etcherla mandal. After observing his passion to inculcate a reading habit among the youngsters, Andhra Pradesh Grandhalaya Sangham made him a State Executive Member of the association. “The library movement played a key role in achieving independence from the British. The then Tamil Nadu government took up an initiative to establishing libraries in Andhra region which was then under Madras Presidency. Subsequently, AP Library Act-1960 was passed in order to establish many libraries across the State. Now, it is again time to revive the library movement to inculcate a reading habit among the children. The establishment of libraries will also help them prepare for competitive exams with access to all books and newspapers,” Mr. Govinda Rao told The Hindu . His ideas inspired youth clubs to set up libraries. Sri Mahalakshmi Youth Club established a library on the premises of Bantupalli in Ranasthalam mandal. An elderly person named Ramamurthy allowed a portion of his house to be converted into a library in Muddada village. Locals contributed furniture and books worth Rs. 1.5 lakh apart from appointing a librarian on a honorarium basis. Srikakulam Citizens Forum president Baratam Kameswara Rao said libraries would serve as an ideal place for conducting awareness programmes and would help in promoting healthy discussions on a range of public issues. Mr. Govinda Rao received many awards including the Best Teacher Award from the State government for his mission to establish libraries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-a-mission-to-bring-back-students-to-libraries/article36924222.ece
10 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vayalar Award for Benyamin||Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal , a novel by Benyamin, has won the 45th Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Literary Award. Instituted by the Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Trust, the award commemorates the celebrated poet and lyricist. It carries a purse of Rs. 1 lakh, a bronze statuette crafted by sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman and a citation. The novel has been selected for the 2021 edition of the coveted prize by a jury consisting of the writers K.R. Meera, George Onakkoor and C. Unnikrishnan. In Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal , Benyamin, who is best known for his award-winning novels such as Aadujeevitham (Goat Days) and Mullappooniramulla Pakalukal (Jasmine Days) and short stories, presents the inhabitants of Manthalir village, and how the heady mix of politics and religion impacts their daily struggles for existence in this essentially bucolic setting. Preface In his preface to the work, the author explains that he had begun working on his tales about Manthalir, a village in Pathanamthitta district, long before the regional novel became a fad in Malayalam. He began writing Akkaporinte Irupathu Nasrani Varshangal , which he calls the first part of the Manthalir stories, in 2005. It deals with the fighting between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malanakara Church for the St. Thomas church at Manthalir, near Pandalam. Even back then, writes Benyamin, he had in his mind a quartet of ‘twenties’ novels. ‘Twenties’ because he preferred to view human life in phases of 20 years each.    Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal forms the ‘second part’ of these stories. Benyamin, born Benny Daniel, hails from Kulanada, Pathanamthitta. He is a recipient of the Kerala Sahithya Akademi Award, the Crossword Book Award, the JCB Prize for Literature and the Muttathu Varkey Award. Benyamin will be presented the award on October 27, the death anniversary of Ramavarma, at the Nishagandhi auditorium in Thiruvananthapuram.  The novelist gets the award for his book Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vayalar-award-for-benyamin/article36923630.ece
10 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Malayappa rides ‘Simha vahanam’||On the third day of the Brahmotsavams being celebrated in ‘ekantam’ on Saturday, ‘Simha vahana seva’ was performed at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara here. Special rituals were performed to the processional deity Lord Malayappa seated atop the golden ‘vahanam’ at the Kalyanotsava Mandapam. Post-noon, ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ dominated the religious proceedings, wherein the deities were given a celestial bath. The festivities drew to a close with the conduct of ‘Muthyapu pandiri vahana seva’. Meanwhile, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, who went on an inspection spree to various cottages along with senior officials, took stock of the implementation of the ‘Dhana Prasadam’ scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lord-malayappa-rides-simha-vahanam/article36924224.ece
10 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stay on housing scheme: govt.’s house motion rejected||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Saturday rejected the house motion petition moved by the State government against the stay imposed by Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy on construction of houses under Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu scheme in the wake of the notification of Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami’s transfer as the Chief Justice of Chhattisgarh High Court. The government has since decided to go for a regular vacation filing on October 11, according to official sources. Friday’s stay order resulted in the quashing of guideline number 3 in G.O.Ms.No.367 (dated August 19, 2019) and clauses (x) (xi) and (xii) of G.O.Ms.No.488 (dated December 2, 2019) and (b) and (d) of G.O.Ms.No.99 (March 31, 2020). Justice Satyanarayana Murthy directed that the deeds of conveyance registered in favour of the allottees should be cancelled and D-form patta given to them in strict compliance with clause 3 of G.O.Ms.No.367. Besides, the stay resulted in the quashing of guideline number 2 of G.O.No.367, which was held by Justice Satyanarayana Murthy as against Articles 14, 15(1) and 39 of the Constitution and violative of Articles 7 and 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 26 of International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. With this, the government is obliged to allot house sites to men and transpersons also on a par with women subject to their eligibility.  Special committee The Judge had also directed the State to form a special committee consisting of experts from the Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs and Health and Family Welfare to examine the issues involved in the procedure of allotment of the house sites and submit a report within one month. Justice Satyanarayana Murthy said in his order that the allotment of one cent in municipal areas and 1.5 cents in villages was inadequate for housing and that the government should have examined the adequacy of drinking water and drainage facilities, and taken into account the environment impact and health and fire hazards insisting on the allottees to undertake construction of the houses. Also, the Judge observed that the State did not follow the World Health Organisation’s Housing and Health Guidelines which provided evidence-based recommendations for healthy housing and interventions required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-motion-plea-on-housing-scheme-rejected/article36923682.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan misleading Centre on coal crisis: Payyavula||Chairman of the Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Payyavula Keshav on Saturday said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had first pushed the surplus power sector of the State into a serious crisis and was now trying to mislead the Centre on the issue. At a press conference, Mr. Keshav questioned the rationale behind Mr. Jagan’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, instead of taking corrective measures to prevent the imminent collapse of the power sector. Mr. Keshav alleged that Mr. Jagan’s letter on coal crisis and power demand was full of lies, and demanded an explanation from the Chief Minister on why his government was buying power in the open market at a very high price at the expense of the State thermal plants. “As a result, these companies have stopped importing coal, thus precipitating the crisis,” Mr. Keshav observed. ‘APERC failed to act’ He said the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) had not acted against the government for its failure to pay Rs. 20,000 crore dues towards subsidies and bills. Instead, a financial burden of Rs. 50,000 crore was shifted on the shoulders of the common man in the name of true-up charges and the like, he added. Stating that there was no truth in the Chief Minister’s claim on increase in demand for power in the post-COVID-19 period, the PAC chief said the Chief Minister should use his good relations with the Telangana government for immediate supply of coal if the situation was really so grim. The State could make use of the well established rail and logistics linkages to get supplies from the Singareni collieries, he said. “What was wrong in the TDP rule has become right now,” Mr. Keshav said, and recalled that Mr. Jagan had criticised former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for the deal related to 8,000 MW renewable energy, but was now buying 10,000 MW from Adani company. Criticising the APERC, he asked what was it doing when the State government did not pay the Rs. 12,000 crore dues to the Discoms towards subsidies. Government firms and offices had to pay dues worth an additional Rs. 8,000 crore, he said.  The Chief Minister should explain why the government is buying power in the open market at a high price at the expense of State thermal plants Payyavula Keshav PAC Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-misleading-centre-on-coal-crisis-payyavula/article36924226.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress decries 30% management quota||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Saturday found fault with the government decision to allow degree college managements to fill 30% of seats. At a press conference, the Congress leader called it “commercialisation of education” and alleged that it was an attempt by the government to do away with payment of fee reimbursement to students belonging to the SC, ST, BC and minority communities. He said the decision was “unfortunate”, especially when students of government colleges were migrating to private colleges for want of basic amenities. He said in the academic year (2020-21), the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) conducted online admissions and a total of 2.62 lakh students joined various degree colleges in the State. Of them, 65,981 opted for Telugu as a medium of instruction. Of these students, 24,007 joined BA courses, 16,925 in B.Com, 24,960 B.Sc and 89 in other courses. Of the total 1,551 degree colleges in the State, 501 of them attract only 0-10 % admissions and 490 of them attract 20-30 % admissions, he pointed out. The managements would be allowed to admit students from any part of the country in these 30% of seats, for which the fees would be three times the normal fee and none of the government schemes like fee reimbursement, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka or Jagananna Vasathi Deevena would apply to this category of students. The APCC president said according to the GO, the seats in both A and B categories would be filled through online process and if any seats in B category remained vacant, they would be filled through spot admissions after securing the persmission from APSCHE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-decries-30-management-quota/article36924304.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helicopter rides begin at Durga temple||Now, devotees wishing to visit Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam can enjoy a helicopter ride and have a bird’s eye view of Vijayawada city. The district administration, AP Tourism, Durga temple management and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) are providing the facility, Special Secretary (Tourism) Rajath Bharghava, who inaugurated the helicopter ride, said on Saturday. MLA Malladi Vishnu, Mayor Rayana Bhagyalakshmi, Collector J. Nivas, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Aviation Corporation Managing Director Bharat Reddy, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar, Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand, Executive Officer D. Bramaramba and other officials enjoyed the aerial view of the temple. Mr. Nivas said that devotees can enjoy the helicopter ride from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m, up to October 17, by paying Rs. 3,500 for a six-minute ride and Rs. 6,000 for a 13 minute-ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helicopter-rides-begin-at-durga-temple/article36923693.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gujarat drug racket: NIA visits firm in Vijayawada||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the heroin drug seizure case at a Gujarat port, visited Vijayawada-based Aashi Trading Company, on Saturday. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials seized 2,998.22 kg of heroin being smuggled on the pretext of semi-processed talc stones in two containers at Mundra Port on September 15. Investigation revealed that the consignment was booked by Aashi Trading Company, located at Gadiyaramvaari Street, Satyanarayanapuram, in Vijayawada. A couple of days ago, the NIA took up the case from DRI. Besides, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Intelligence Bureau (IB), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and other organisations are probing the racket. A woman, Govindaraju Durgapurna Vaishali, wife of Machavaram Sudhakar, registered the firm in August 2020. She took Import and Export License Code from the Director-General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). The couple, who were arrested, were staying at Chennai for the last few years. The seized heroin was being smuggled from Afghanistan on the GSTN number of Aashi Trading Company, registered on the name of Ms. Vaishali. The NIA officials visited Gadiyaramvari Street here and conducted ‘panchanama’. They took photographs of the shell company and conducted searches in the building. The sleuths inquired about the landlord, when the couple took the premises on lease for running the company, the activities of the firm, when Sudhakar and Vaishali visited the office last, who were the other persons who used to frequent Aashi Trading Company, and how and to whom were they paying rent and other particulars. “Investigation officers spoke to the neighbours and collected some details. They also interacted with the police who conducted inquiry into the business activities of the shell company after the drug racket was busted,” a senior police officer told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gujarat-drug-racket-nia-visits-firm-in-vijayawada/article36924213.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported eight COVID-19 deaths and 629 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,56,628 and 14,250 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 8,134. Prakasam district reported three deaths, while Krishna reported two, and Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam reported one each. Chittoor reported 104 infections during the period. It was the only district to report more than 100 cases. It was followed by Guntur (91), Krishna (75), Nellore (68), East Godavari (65), Prakasam (53), West Godavari (50), Visakhapatnam (49), Kadapa (44), Srikakulam (16), Anantapur (7), Kurnool (4) and Vizianagaram (3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article36924214.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspects being questioned in ‘alien faith’ case||The police are questioning the suspects in the case of broadcasting of activities of another religion at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam. It was alleged that C-Channel and Keerthi Creations arranged screens to telecast Dasara Utsavams at the temple. But, on Thursday evening, the channel allegedly screened the activities of another religion. Temple Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba said the management gave permission for arranging screens at the temple. “A complaint has been lodged with the police on the alien faith,” she said. The One Town police reportedly picked up a few persons of the channel and others on Monday, and were questioning them. Police are investigating whether the telecast was deliberate or a technical fault, and whether the programme was aired from the channel’s office or was done by the technicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspects-being-questioned-in-alien-faith-case/article36923691.ece
10 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s double standards exposed: BJP||BJP State unit president Somu Veerraju on Saturday said the TDP’s decision not to contest in the byelection to the Badvel (SC) Assembly seat in the name of ‘tradition’ was in stark contrast to the stand which it had taken in the bypoll held in Nandyal following the death of Bhuma Nagi Reddy. “What else can best describe the TDP’s double standards,” he said, asserting that by not staying away from the byelection in Badvel, the BJP wanted to discourage family politics. He called upon the electorate to choose wisely between BJP and the two regional parties which, he said, were bent on achieving their selfish goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdps-double-standards-exposed-bjp/article36924217.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 file papers for bypoll||Seventeen candidates, who included YSRCP’s Dasari Sudha and BJP’s Panathala Suresh, have filed their nominations for the by-election to the Badvel Assembly seat, which will be held on October 30. Friday was the last date for the filing of papers. Ms. Sudha is the wife of YSRCP MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah, whose death necessitated the by-election.  Two Congress candidates – P. Mary Kamalamma and J. Prabhakar – have also joined the race. Other candidates are Mutyala Prasada Rao (Ambedkar National Congress), Gollapalli Vijay Kumar and Degala Daniel Paul (both from Hardam Manavtavadi Rashtriya Dal), Singamala Venkateswarlu (Navarang Congress Party) and Sagili Sudarshanam (Jana Sahayaka Sakti Party). Apart from them, there are seven independent candidates in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-file-papers-for-bypoll/article36924229.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Improve vaccine coverage’||Krishna District Collector J. Nivas has asked the ward secretariat staff to reach out to people who did not get vaccinated till now and create awareness to improve vaccine coverage in the city. Mr. Nivas, along with officials, inspected the ward secretariat in Ranigari Thota on Saturday. He said doctors in urban health centres, health assistants in ward secretariats and ward volunteers should coordinate and create awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-vaccine-coverage/article36923697.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close all schools till Oct. 17: DEO||District Education Officer Tahera Sultana said action would be taken against schools violating the SCERT calendar by conducting classwork though the government declared Dasara holidays. In a release, she said the department noticed that some schools were conducting classes even as the holidays began on October 7. She said all schools should remain shut till October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/close-all-schools-till-oct-17-deo/article36923698.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI property show gets under way||Minister for Endowments V. Srinivasa Rao inaugurated the two-day ‘CREDAI Property Show’ being organised by the Vijayawada chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India here on Saturday. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, MLA M. Vishnu, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, CREDAI A.P. chairman S. Venkata Ramaiah , and president B. Raja Srinivas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-property-show-gets-under-way/article36923696.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come clear on mortgage issue, TDP urges govt.||The Telugu Desam Party leaders and workers staged a dharna near the Gandhi Statue opposite the GVMC office here on Saturday, demanding that the State government come clear on the mortgage issue. Addressing the media after the dharna, former TDP MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that the State government had already mortgaged 13 prime government properties such as the Polytechnic College, Circuit House, rythu bazaars and the District Collector’s office for Rs. 3,000 crore and now they have mortgaged all the guest houses of the Roads and Buildings Department for Rs. 140 crore. How long will they be generating funds by taking loans to fund their welfare schemes? he questioned. The TDP leaders said that on one hand the YSR Congress Party government is saying that it will convert Visakhapatnam into executive capital and on the other side they are mortgaging all the properties. “There is no asset creation and liabilities are going up. The State government can mortgage properties to generate short term loans to mitigate immediate issues such as rehabilitation of a city or village after being hit by a natural calamity. But they certainly cannot do it to fund the welfare schemes for their political mileage,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. What is even more astonishing is that the government had not conducted a socio-economic survey to determine the real beneficiaries of the welfare schemes, he said. Visakhapatnam (East) MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and other senior leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-clear-on-mortgage-issue-tdp-urges-govt/article36924316.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengalis gear up to celebrate Durga puja||The Bengalis of the Port City are gearing up to celebrate the Durga puja festivities by strictly adhering to the safety protocols. At Waltair Kali Bari, the 61st year of Durga Puja celebrations will be inaugurated on the day of Panchami on October 10. “We will be allowing small groups of visitors at a time every day with proper social distancing measures. All rituals will be followed. Bhog prasad will be given on three days of Saptami, Ashtami and Navami. This year we have arranged a buffet system at the open grounds behind the temple to ensure the crowd is properly spread out,” says B.C. Burman, general secretary of Durga Puja Committee of Waltair Kali Temple. The five-day Durga Puja celebrations will begin from the day of Sashti on October 11 at Vizag’s oldest Bengali association in One Town. The puja that was once held at the Town Hall is now being held every year at S.P. Naidu Memorial Hall near the old Municipal Stadium. “This year, there is a positive sentiment everywhere. Keeping in consideration all safety protocols, we are arranging to serve ‘bhog prasad’ on Saptami, Ashtami and Navami days at the venue in small batches,” says Tapan Bhattacharjee, secretary of Bengali Association, One Town. The city’s first Durga Puja celebration began in 1932 at One Town as a homely celebration. Today the Bengali Association has more than 80 members who have been carrying forward the traditions each year. “Last year was very challenging. Things look better this year and we are hoping to get support from sponsors as well,” says the association's president S.K. Banerjee. Local cultural programmes will be held in the evenings at the venue. The Ukkunagaram Durga Puja Committee that hosts over 200 Bengali families every year will be celebrating the 38th Durga Puja celebrations at Steel Plant Kali Bari sans all frills. “There will be no bhog or cultural programmes in view of the pandemic,” says Anindo Pal, member of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bengalis-gear-up-to-celebrate-durga-puja/article36924307.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two tribal girls script their success stories||Two tribal girls from Paderu mandal, who became specialist doctors, are now an inspiration to many local youth in Visakhapatnam Agency. Birth in Maoist-affected region and brought up in interior tribal hamlets have not deterred them from dreaming big. They have received posting to serve as paediatrician and gynaecologist at Paderu Government Hospital. The duo will be taking home a salary of about Rs. 2 lakh. L. Neeraja, who hails from Lagisipalle village of Paderu mandal, has completed MBBS at Rangaraya Medical College in Kakinada and pursued M.D.,(Paediatrics) at Andhra Medical College (2018-21). S. Praveena hails from P. Gonduru village from Paderu mandal. She did her MBBS at Andhra Medical College (AMC) and pursued P.G Gynaecology at Maharani Medical College, Chhattisgarh. ‘Childhood dream’ “Since childhood, it was my dream to become a doctor. Even though there was an option to go for Radiology, I had selected paediatrics in my postgraduation Since childhood, I have seen child deaths and other issues related to women in the Agency. So I wanted to become a paediatrician and serve my people,” said Dr. Neeraja speaking to The Hindu . Ms. Neeraja has studied in Paderu till Class X and then she moved to other places for further education. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna handed over the appointment letters to the doctors on Friday (October 8) and they have started to attend duties from Saturday. “I have seen MBBS doctors coming out from the tribal areas. But probably for the first time, I am seeing specialist doctors from the Agency area. I am very happy while giving the appointment orders,” said Mr. Gopala Krishna. He said that this would definitely encourage the youth, especially girls from the Agency areas, to dream high and achieve their goals. Superintendent of Paderu Government Hospital K. Krishna Rao said that many doctors from the plain areas do not come to work in Agency. ‘Very excited’ Being an interior area, apart from round-the-clock service, the doctors hesitate to come to work , Dr. Krishna Rao said. But both the new doctors who know about the ground realities have taken up the responsibility and are very much excited to take up the job, Dr. Krishna Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-tribal-girls-script-their-success-stories/article36924303.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP women’s wing suspects foul play in minor girl death case||The women’s wing of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) expressed doubts over the death case of 14-year-old girl at Aganampudi, which the police confirmed as suicide. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, the wing leaders alleged that the police may be hiding facts in the case. The police said that the minor girl was allegedly involved in a relationship with the 28-year-old accused Naresh of Vizianagaram, on whom rape case was booked. TDP Visakha Parliament Mahila wing president S. Anantha Lakshmi questioned how can the police decide the character of the girl based on confession of the accused. She alleged that the police appearing to be in a hurry to close the case, as they addressed a press meet on the same day night, even without receiving the post-mortem report. She said that there were a few reports that the girl had injuries on her body, which were caused due to alleged torture, for which the police had no answers. The TDP leader alleged that there was a political connection in the case and it was hushed up to ensure that there is no further damage to the State government, which is already reeling under severe pressure due to increase in crimes against woman, including girl child. ‘Clear case of suicide’ However, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha reiterated that it was a clear case of suicide. He said that mobile phone data call records and messages helped the police in solving the case within a few hours. Addressing the media at the Gajuwaka police station, he said that the accused had lured the girl with pornographic content and forced her into physical relationship. He said that even before the incident, the duo had met privately in his room. On the day of incident, as the girl was not present in the house, parents of the minor girl had started to search for her, by calling out her name loudly. The girl escaped from the room of the accused and reached the fifth floor (terrace) and due to fear of being caught, she reportedly jumped from there and ended her life, the Police Commissioner said. “The investigation is clear and there is no ambiguity. Our investigation is based on post-mortem report, technical data, witness examination and call data records,” said Mr. Manish Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-womens-wing-suspects-foul-play-in-minor-girl-death-case/article36924245.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP: contractors reeling under financial crisis||Former MLA and senior BJP leader P. Vishnu Kumar Raju alleged that contractors from the State are reeling under severe financial crisis due to the non-payment of arrears by the YSR Congress Party government. He said that the contractors have never faced such a financial crisis before and many are not in a position to meet their daily requirements. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that he has been receiving a number of calls from the contractors on the issue. He alleged that several contractors have also ended lives due to financial issue and the State government should protect their families. Though the situation is worse, the government is not taking steps to solve the problem and keeping on distributing money in the name of social welfare activities, he said. Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju also criticised the State government for allegedly mortgaging the government properties for loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractors-reeling-under-financial-crisis-says-bjp/article36924246.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victoria hospital will be developed: Collector||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna on Saturday inspected the Victoria Government Hospital (Gosha) hospital here and said that steps will be taken to develop the hospital. He later took part in hospital development committee meeting with the officials. He said that once the new building block is completed, additionally 280 beds can be arranged at the hospital for the patients. He asked hospital Superintendent G. Hemalatha Devi to increase Out Patient services and also appoint radiologist and an ambulance driver. Earlier, the Collector checked the wards and blocks in the hospital. He also interacted with several patients and enquired about the facilities. Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victoria-hospital-will-be-developed/article36924247.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narayana seeks increase in area of house sites given to the poor||Communist Party of India (CPI) national secretary K. Narayana demanded that the State government increase the extent of land being given to the poor under the housing schemes. Addressing the media after the conclusion of the two-day State-level workshop here on Saturday, he said that his opinion on house sites has been vindicated by the AP High Court, which has asked the government to increase the extent of the land. The government has allotted 1 cent of land for housing in the urban areas and 1.5 cents in the rural areas. This is grossly insufficient to build a decent house, where a family can live, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narayana-seeks-increase-in-area-of-house-sites-given-to-the-poor/article36924249.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man duped of Rs. 27 lakh by cyber fraudster||A man from Atchutapuram was reportedly cheated to a tune of Rs. 27 lakh by a fraudster in Visakhapatnam district. The incident came to light after the victim lodged a complaint with the local police on Saturday. According to police, a man from Pudimadaka Road of Atchutapuram got acquittanted with an unknown person in social media, who introduced herself as Clara Morgan. She allegedly contacted him over phone and told that she came to India recently. She allegedly claimed that she brought Demand Draft of £5,32,000 and she requested him to pay Rs. 68,500 for her immigration clearance. Another unknown person claiming herself as Priyanka contacted the complainant over phone and requested him to pay the amount. The victim allegedly sent Rs. 27,20,000 from August 30 to September 14 on their request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-duped-of-rs-27-lakh-by-cyber-fraudster/article36924312.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Murder accused arrested||The II Town police arrested Surada Yellaji for allegedly being involved in the suspicious death case of businessman Sk Madeena Valli from Allipuram, which was reported on October 6. Madeena Valli was found dead near an under-construction building at Allipuram on Wednesday evening. II Town police Inspector K. Venkat Rao said that the accused will be produced before the court. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/murder-accused-arrested/article36924248.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||44 private bus operators booked for overcharging||Officials from the Transport Department have conducted raids and have booked cases against managements of 44 buses, who were found to be collecting more charges by taking advantage of Dasara rush. Deputy Transport Commissioner G. Rajaratnam said that teams from the Transport Department started a special drive and conducted raids on various private buses at various places from October 7 to 9. Motor Vehicle Inspectors (MVIs) K.V. Prakash Rao, V. Venkat Rao, Raja Rao and others took part in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-private-bus-operators-booked-for-overcharging/article36924244.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coast Guard organises walkathon||As part of Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, the Indian Coast Guard organised a walkathon to create awareness on the phasing out of single use plastic, here on Saturday. The 5-km walkathon was taken up from Coast Guard residential complex to the Scindia Complex and about 100 personnel from ICG and civilians took part. The event was flagged off by Deputy Inspector General Yoginder Dhaka, Commander, Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 6 (Andhra Pradesh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coast-guard-organises-walkathon/article36924313.ece
10 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI organises Joy of Giving Week||As part of Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, the State Bank of India organised a ‘Joy of Giving Week’ from October 2. All the employees donated grocery items to the needy. The grocery items were given to four NGOs. A cleaning programme of the administrative building and influenza vaccination drive for children were also taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-organises-joy-of-giving-week/article36924314.ece
10 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poems convey message of social relevance powerfully: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Saturday released ‘DVG Kavitalu’, a compilation of poems written on social issues by former Parvatipuram MP D.V.G. Sankara Rao. Mr. Satyanarayana said that the poems convey messages of social relevance powerfully. The book contains 250 poems written in the last two decades. Dr. Sankara Rao penned nearly 15 stories and published 3,000 letters in various newspapers and magazines. Dr. Sankara Rao, who recently joined the YSRCP, is working as a senior doctor at Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences at Nellimarla in Vizianagaram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poems-convey-message-of-social-relevance-powerfully-botcha/article36924239.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suburban sprawl||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suburban-sprawl/article36924228.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article36924212.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floral splendour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floral-splendour/article36924306.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweet offering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweet-offering/article36924311.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Podu cultivators to be evicted from core forest||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the government will clear podu (shifting) cultivation from the core forest and allot land to cultivators on the fringes of forest. All those evicted will be given certificates and provided power, irrigation, Rytu Bandh and Rytu Beema facilities. Mr. Rao asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials to accept claims for title to podu lands across the State from next week. Based on the applications, claims of extent of agriculture by them on those lands should be surveyed and steps taken to finalise them. However, the ultimate goal should be to protect forest lands by ensuring that they were not encroached, Mr. Rao said at an official meeting to discuss the issue. Mr. Somesh Kumar was also asked to hold a meeting with Collectors of all districts for issuing necessary instructions. The suggestions of MLAs should be taken into account. The forest officials were asked to play a key role in safeguarding the forest land in coordination with tribal welfare department. A survey of forest land would begin in November, a release quoting Mr, Rao said. He asked the forest department to identify the borders of forest land with the aid of coordinates. Wherever necessary trenches should be dug up, fencing and other effective steps to protect the forest land should be taken up. The government would provide adequate budget for the purpose. The government would also extend police protection if required. Guidelines to constitute forest protection committees should be prepared. Mr. Rao said there should be no room for encroachment of even an inch of forest land after the controversy over podu lands was resolved to an extent. The government would not be found wanting in taking any kind of tough measures to protect forest land. As part of resolving the issue, an all-party meeting would be held and leaders given a field experience if necessary of how the forest lands were vulnerable to encroachment. He recalled that the government had assured justice to podu cultivators in the Assembly. The government would protect the right to life of tribals dependent on forest. The real problem was only with people encroaching on forest lands and exploiting its wealth. The forest would not be sacrifised to meet their selfish ends. After finding a solution to podu cultivation, the government would ensure that there was no transgression into forest lands. It would be the responsibility of forest officials to ensure that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/podu-farmers-to-be-evicted-from-core-forest/article36924012.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMR ordered to compensate Rs. 5 lakh to passenger||A flier who was injured at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on an escalator was in for a relief after the Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed GMR to pay Rs. 5 lakh as compensation. The commission bench comprising president M S K Jaiswal and member Meena Ramanathan was dealing with a complaint filed by Subroto Banerjee, 48, a resident of Sikh Village. The opposite party was GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited. The complainant stated that it was on August 10, 2014 that he was scheduled to leave for Bengaluru by a 7.25 p.m. Indigo flight. He got on the escalator which would take him to the check-in area. He claimed that almost halfway through the escalator slowed down, came to a halt, and moved backwards at a high speed. As a result several passengers fell on one another, including on the complainant, who sustained multiple fractures. He further stated that he not only missed his flight, but also incurred a loss of Rs. 5,724, and was bedridden for 75 days. He had to spend a large amount of money for his treatment. For their part, the opposite party contended that the escalator, on account of a surefit of users, slowed down and came to a halt, but did not move in the opposite direction. The complainant was standing at the edge of the escalator and was not holding onto the rails because of which he lost balance during the incident. The opposite party maintained that it is not at fault, but as a gesture of goodwill paid Rs. 1.51 lakh for his treatment at Apollo Hospitals. Taking the evidence and arguments placed on record, the commission noted, “The best possible evidence that could have been produced by the opposite party is the CCTV footage which would certainly have been maintained in view of the fact that the airport is one of the best airports in the international arena but for obvious reasons, the same was neither preserved nor produced before the court for ascertaining as to which of the contentions is correct.” The commission wondered that even if overcrowding of the escalator was true, who was responsible for it and who should be expected to regulate the movement of passengers on it. The commission also stated that there was no signage at the escalator stating the capacity of persons it can carry at a point in time. “It is the obligation on the part of the authorities to control the crowd on escalator if there is possibility of the escalator being slowed down in the event of there being any overcrowding. The obligation is solely upon the opposite party to caution the passengers who were trying to use the escalator for the purpose of going to the floors above,” the commission stated. It added that if escalators at an airport of international repute gets ‘stuck-up’ - it is a deficiency. Apart from ordering compensation of Rs. 5 lakh, the Commission ordered costs of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gmr-ordered-to-compensate-rs-5-lakh-to-passenger/article36924258.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||200 investors take part at TiE summit||TiE Sustainability Summit, a three-day event organised by TiE Hyderabad earlier this week, was one of the largest events in the sustainability space with a participation of 40,000 social enterprises, start-ups and entrepreneurs from 64 countries. Of the 40,000, as many as 30,000 were social enterprises, the organisers said in a release, terming it as a record and distinction. The summit with ‘entrepreneurship meets sustainability’ as its theme had six tracks, 65 sessions and 225 speakers. It also had the participation of 200 investors. The event concluded on October 6 evening with presentation of the TSS Social Enterprises Awards. The organisers said 115 social enterprises were recognised and felicitated. They were selected from among the 30,000 social enterprises that had registered for the summit. The winners included Jayashree Industries founded by Arunachalam Muruganantham, who has set up the world’s first low-cost machine to produce sanitary pads, Dharavi Market, iKure, Gen Robotics, Marut Drones, Drona Maps, Naandi, NICE, Civics Unplugged (USA), Carbonlites, Bharat Rohan, Bamboo House, Sukarma and Vise Organics. Past President of TiE Hyderabad Kali Prasad Gadiraju said the criteria for selecting the award winners included current and future social impact of the enterprise; demonstration of leadership, alignment with SDG, leadership potential, current funding, revenue model, value proposition, differentiation and Intellectual Property. The awards were given under five categories – TSS Social Enterprise of the year; TSS Transformational Social Enterprise of the year; TSS Innovative Social Enterprise of the Year; Emerging Social Enterprise of the year and TSS Women Social Entrepreneur of the year. TiE Hyderabad plans to publish a coffee table book highlighting the award winning social enterprises and their journey. TiE Hyderabad intends to roll out an over $200 million Social Impact Fund. During the event, it also announced rural innovators initiative and a Rs. 15 crore grant towards the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/200-investors-take-part-at-tie-summit/article36924263.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1.27 crore seized in run-up to Huzurabad bypoll||Within 11 days of issuing notification for Huzurabad bypoll, 33 instances of cash seizure were reported raising eyebrows here. Special parties of Karimnagar police constituted for the by-poll seized Rs. 1.27 crore since the poll notification was issued on September 28. “It cannot be said that all this amount seized is connected to the ensuring election and being used to lure voters,” a police officer supervising the surprise checks said. When huge sums of cash was seized from persons, police parties were questioning them about the source of money. Cash was being seized from persons who were unable to account for the source of money. In 42 instances, liquor bottles of 635 litres were seized from different persons. The seized liquor was valued at Rs. 3.70 lakh. In a sole incident, ganja weighing 935 grams was seized. In four incidents, 3,414 gelatin sticks, 2,164 detonators and 1,500 metres of wire were seized. Gold jewellery weighing 30 grams and sliver bars weighing 14 kg, all worth Rs. 10.60 lakh, were seized from a person. Thirty three cases of violations of Model Code of Conduct were booked. Out of this, 11 cases were connected to the TRS. Seven cases involving BJP, two linked to Congress were reported. The remaining cases were related to others. Meanwhile, BJP bypoll in-charge Jitender Reddy said his party had met election observer who had come to Karimnagar and complained to him of the partisan attitude of officials. He said that BJP wanted the election authorities to shift Karimnagar police Commissioner and Returning Officer, alleging that they were favouring a particular party. Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel came to Karimnagar and reviewed the preparedness of the administrative machinery for the byelection with top officials of the district. Additional Director General of Police Jitender and IGP Y. Nagi Reddy too were in Karimnagar. They examined the security arrangements being made for the by-poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-127-cr-seized-in-the-run-up-to-bypoll/article36924019.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress to target TRS ‘corruption’ and BJP’s ‘failures’||Congress has appointed a Chief Coordinator for every mandal and an incharge for every village in the Huzurabad constituency with senior Congress functionaries and MLAs to take the campaigning ahead. A meeting at Gandhi Bhavan on Saturday under the chairmanship of TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka discussed the poll strategy to be adopted in the elections. Apparently there was also a discussion on the finances given the way crores of rupees were being spent by both TRS and BJP candidates. Later, at a press conference, TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said the meeting discussed the appointment of leaders in mandals and villages for the campaign. He said the campaign would focus on corruption in the TRS government and burdening of people by the government through hike in fuel prices. Both TRS and BJP havd made life miserable for the common man, he said. Mr. Goud said the resolution adopted on caste enumeration of the Backward Classes in the Assembly was yet another non-serious decision of the TRS to mislead the BCs like the resolutions adopted earlier on enhancing on reservations to minorities and tribals. If KCR was serious about BC welfare he should reveal the data collected in the household survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-target-trs-corruption-and-bjps-failures/article36924014.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Recognise fighters of 1969: Ponnala||Former PCC chief and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to provide pension to senior citizens who participated in the 1969 Telangana movement and were neglected now. In a statement here, he reminded that the Chief Minister himself had acknowledged the contribution of the 1969 movement paving way for separate Telangana now and assured that those who sacrificed their youth in the movement would be recognised and honoured. However, even after seven years of separate State the promise had not been fulfilled. Mr. Ponnala said they should also be given agriculture lands under some special scheme apart from sanctioning houses and free medical facility, given their role in the most difficult movement that saw 369 people lose their lives. The Congress leader said it was unfair on the part of the present government to ignore the sacrifices and undermine the contribution of that era in the formation of a separate state and present only KCR as lone fighter. This was nothing but distorting history, he said and reminded that both 1952 Mulki agitation and the 1969 separate state agitation showcased the fighting spirit of people. Mr. Ponnala said KCR should have done a great service to Telangana by personally inviting them to send a positive signal to the warriors. He said it was also reported that KCR had insulted them after inviting them to Pragathi Bhavan and staying away from the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recognise-fighters-of-1969-ponnala/article36924016.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One more chance to apply for old-age pensions||The State government has provided another window to eligible persons who have completed 57 years of age to facilitate applying for old-age pensions. They many apply now from October 11 to 30. The decision was taken at a meeting held by Chief Secretary here on Saturday following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement in the Assembly on Friday after a plea made by legislators to provide another window for applying for pension as several eligible persons could do so during the window provided earlier. The Chief Secretary reviewed the issue and observed that some more eligible persons were left over. He instructed Secretary (PR&RD) Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Managing Director of Telangana State Technical Services G.T. Venkateshwar Rao to make necessary arrangements in all the Mee Seva centres to facilitate the eligible persons apply for old-age pensions from October 11 to 30. At another meeting, the Chief Secretary told the authorities concerned to identify suitable locations within the vicinity of major government hospitals for having a functional accommodation to attendants of patients. He also told them to make arrangements for providing subsidised breakfast, lunch and dinner in collaboration with Hare Krishna Mission Charitable Foundation. He told the officials to make arrangements for proper shelter, drinking water, sanitary facilities for comfortable waiting of the attendants duly keeping in mind the needs of women attendants. The woes of patients’ attendants was brought to the Chief Minister’s notice by Congress Legislature Party Leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka on Friday. Mr. Vikramarka stated that attendants of poor patients in hospitals such as NIMS, Niloufer, Osmania, Gandhi, TIMS, King Koti, Fever, M.J. Cancer, Govt. Maternity and other Hospitals were facing lot of hardships in the matter of stay and food. The Chief Secretary wanted the officials to provide facilities from Dasara festival itself. Secretary (Health) S.A.M. Rizvi, Chief Executive Officer of Hare Krishna Mission Charitable Foundation Kaunteya Das, Officer on Special Duty (Health) to Chief Minister Dr. T. Gangadhar and authorities of government hospitals attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-chance-to-apply-for-old-age-pensions/article36924182.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC bags two awards||NMDC was presented two awards at a conference by the Sustainable Development Foundation, which is a unit of Ek Kaam Desh Ke Naam, in Dehradun. The company bagged the gold award in environmental sustainability category, while the platinum award in environment management category went to its Kumaraswamy iron ore mine. NMDC in a release on Saturday said it was selected for the awards based on its contribution towards implementation of Sustainable Development Goals and environment management initiatives at its production projects. The awards were presented by Uttarakhand Minister Harak Singh Rawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-bags-two-awards/article36924000.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stop leasing OU land to private players: ABVP||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has strongly opposed the leasing of Osmania University land to private people under the pretext of generating finances and demanded the cancellation of lease given for petrol station and a shopping mall near the Mekaster auditorium. ABVP State secretary Praveen Reddy, in a statement here, said that OU officials were supporting their act of leasing out land to private players while relinquishing their responsibility of saving precious land. If this continues to happen, the varsity will be left with existing buildings and the very concept of university will vanish. It is unfortunate that when students opposed the construction, the varsity administration was using police force to threaten them. The ABVP leader also demanded that land given for shopping mall be taken back and instead a research centre be constructed for the future needs of the varsity. He reminded that the Justice Chinnappa Reddy Committee constituted on “Saving the OU” land had also recommended quite clearly that varsity land should not be leased out to anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-leasing-ou-land-to-private-players-abvp/article36924003.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIMS to offer Master’s in Hospital Management||The Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) is offering an intensive Master’s Programme in Hospital Management to create highly qualified managers and administrators for efficient management of hospitals in India. The Department of Hospital Administration with a team of highly qualified and experienced faculty will impart necessary knowledge and skills with practical orientation and help formulate strategies for more efficient management of super-specialty hospitals, said academic in-charge of the department Dr. M. Ramesh. He said that the course curriculum is spread over four semesters of class room instruction, practicals, and fifth semester of internship in a hospital that covers the entire gamut of hospital administration in the modern era. “Career prospects are huge in management of corporate and private hospitals in India and abroad. Over 200 students from NIMS are placed in top hospitals in India and abroad,” he said. The aspirants of Master’s Programme in Hospital Management should possess a Bachelor’s degree in any discipline and the selection is based on the aggregate of marks secured in entrance examination, group discussion and personal interview. Details can be had on www.nims.edu.in or on 9642928910.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-to-offer-masters-in-hospital-management/article36924007.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Justice Satish Chandra Sharma is new CJ of Telangana HC||The Union government on Saturday appointed Karnataka High Court Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma as Chief Justice of Telangana High Court. A notification to this effect was issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, stating that President had consented for the appointment. Recently, Supreme Court Collegium recommended the name of Justice Satish Chandra Sharma for appointment as CJ for Telangana HC. He was born on November 30, 1961 at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. Holder of LLB degree, Justice Satish Chandra Sharma completed X and XII standards from Central School of Jabalpur. His father B.N. Sharma was Vice-Chancellor of Barkatullah University in Bhopal. His mother Shanti Sharma was principal of Maharani Lakshmibai school and retired as Jabalpur District Educational Officer. He got enrolled as advocate in 1984 and practised law at Madhya Pradesh HC. At the age of 42, he became one of the youngest lawyers to be designated as senior counsel. After being elevated as Madhya Pradesh HC judge in 2008, he was appointed permanent judge two years later. An avid reader, the newly appointed CJ is associated with national law universities. He published research articles and papers. He was transferred to Karnataka HC on January 4, 2021. On August 31, he was appointed Acting CJ of Karnataka HC. A Full Court meeting was held on Saturday bidding farewell to Telangana HC Acting CJ M.S. Ramachandra Rao who was transferred as judge of Punjab and Haryana HC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/justice-satish-chandra-sharma-is-new-cj-of-telangana-hc/article36924008.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana Infantry Regiment in Indian Army urged||State Planning Commission vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar on Saturday requested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to create a Telangana Infantry regiment in the Indian Army. In a letter to the Raksha Mantri, Mr.Kumar stated that the ex-servicemen association had informed him that the India Army was raising three new battalions with 3,000 troops under Sikh, Kumaon and J&K regiments and opined that instead of raising a new one in the existing regiments, a new Telangana infantry regiment could be created. “Historical records state that the 19th Hyderabad regiment, an infantry regiment of the British Indian Army, was formed at the end of World War-I, which played a significant role till the World War-II,” he said. The lashkars of the Hyderabad regiment weré specialised in jungle warfare and fought in the Middle East, North Africa, Persia, Malaya, Singapore, and Burma and it was considered one of the strongest regiments during the time but unfortunately, the regiment was disbanded post-Independence and was incorporated into the Indian army as Kumaon regiment. “People of Telangana have a glorious past and are eager to regain the past glory. I opine that having a Telangana regiment with Telanganites fighting for the Indian Army is a matter of pride and will revive the lost glory in the Indian Army,” Mr.Kumar said. “While we have achieved a separate State, we believe that at the national level our identity needs to be recognised on a broader level and the establishment of a separate infantry regiment would be a step in that direction, he said. “Given the long association of our people in specialised techniques of warfare, a dedicated Telangana Regiment in the Indian Army should be established to honour the contribution of the people of Telangana towards the nation,” the senior TRS leader said, adding that the twin cities had a long history of association with the Indian Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-infantry-regiment-in-indian-army-urged/article36924017.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 190 COVID-19 positive cases||Telangana recorded 190 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,67,725. While 42,166 samples were put to test, results of 1,871 are awaited. Meanwhile, two more COVID patients have died. The new 190 cases include 58 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 22 from Karimnagar, 18 from Warangal Urban, 13 from Rangareddy, and 11 from Medchal Malkajgiri. Infections in Karimnagar did not cross 18 in the past seven days. No infection was detected in Vikarabad, Narayanpet, Adilabad. From March 2-2020 to October 9 of this year, a total of 2.67 crore samples were put to test and 6,67,725 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 4,288 were active cases, 6,59,508 people have recovered while 3,929 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-190-covid-19-positive-cases/article36924259.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘AI and ML courses in high demand’||International School of Engineering (INSOFE) conducted an international education fair for students interested in pursuing MS and MBA courses abroad where the aspirants were informed about the opportunities in various institutions, particularly in emerging areas like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). Experts and counsellors explained to the students that AI and ML jobs are in demand and are the highest paid positions across industries. Organisations across the world are looking for highly skilled professionals who can combine AI and ML skills with their domain specialisation to solve complex industry problems. They said pathway graduate programmes offered by INSOFE’s partner institutes have complete career support, guaranteed scholarships, very high visa success rates, and are recognised by the leading banks in India for easy loan assistance. INSOFE’s partners include Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland; University of Strathclyde, Glasgow; Rennes Business School, France; Carleton University, Ottawa and; Walsh College, Michigan, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-and-ml-courses-in-high-demand/article36924260.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cricket betting racket busted, four held||With the arrest of four persons, the Hyderabad city police on Saturday busted an organised cricket betting racket and seized Rs. 2 lakh in cash and four mobile phones from their possession. Acting on a tip off, Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao raided a house at Risalgunj under Afzalgunj police station area and found four persons organising betting through online betting sites -- Tripal7.com, subh999.com, radheexchange.com, Skyexchange.com -- and for accepting betting amount from punters for ongoing cricket matches. Businessmen The accused were identified as Maya Chandrakanth, 36, Vuppala Shashank, 40, Pavan Agarwal, 38, all businessmen and residents of Afalgunj, and Rajneesh Kumar, 34, from Narayanaguda. The accused persons along with seized material were handed over Afzalgunj police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cricket-betting-racket-busted-four-held/article36924261.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Dhoolpet, a hub for supply of ganja’||Dhoolpet has become a hub for the supply of ganja, said Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar during ‘Nasha Mukth Hyderabad’, an awareness campaign against usage of drugs was organised by the city police at Dhoolpet here on Saturday. The residents were informed on the use of drugs, which causes damage to human life and becomes an endogenous one. “Most youth, especially students are getting addicted to this social vice and Dhoolpet has become a hub for supplying the ganja,” he said. They were also briefed on the legal consequences of selling ganja. “We are working to make the city free of ganja addicts and need your cooperation. We want the youth of Dhoolpet to choose the right path,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dhoolpet-a-hub-for-supply-of-ganja/article36924262.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 more held in Akademi fraud||Continuing their probe into the scam-hit Telugu Akademi’s Rs. 64.50 crore fixed deposits fraud, Hyderabad Central Crime Station police on Saturday arrested three more persons, including an Akademi staff. The arrested are Akademi outsourced employee Vinay, and mastermind Chunduri Venkata Koti Sai Kumar’s associates Bhupati and Venkata Ramana. With this, the total arrests in the case rose to 13. Confirming the arrest, sources said that the trio used to liaison paperworks between banks and the Akademi, including fake documents.  “The trio were arrested and remanded to judicial custody,” an officer said. He said that more arrests are likely to happen in the next few days. The mastermind behind the fraud, Mr. Sai Kumar, a realtor from the city, who swindled Rs. 20 crore in the fraud, was previously involved in similar offences in Andhra Pradesh and Chennai. He withdrew the FDRs of Andhra Pradesh Minority Welfare Society in 2012 and the case is being investigated by the Crime Investigation Department (CID). Mr. Sai Kumar was also accused in Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Scam of nearly Rs. 6 crore and Rs. 25 crore FDR fraud of Northern Coal Fields in Chennai, both cases are being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-more-held-in-telugu-akademi-episode/article36924004.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘KCR should apologise’||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has ridiculed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s claim on TRS government spending huge sums for the welfare of SCs, STs, BCs and minorities compared to previous Congress Government and said it was nothing but deceit. In a statement here, he said the overall allocations for the welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and minorities in the last seven years was nearly Rs. 1.50 Lakh crore but only Rs. 74,165 crore was spent, which was less than 50% of the allocated amount. “KCR should explain this short funding and apologise to these communities,” he said. Referring to KCR’s statement in the Assembly that TRS government spent Rs. 74,165 crore on welfare compared to Rs. 21,663 crore by Congress regime from 2004-2014, he asked what was the budget of 2004 to 2014 and what was the budget now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-should-apologise/article36924015.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||World Mental Health Day today||The importance of continuing treatment even after recovering from mental illness, consequences if someone stops, and other aspects, were explained to patients and their attendants at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) in Erragadda on Saturday. In the run-up to World Mental Health Day on Sunday, a series of awareness programmes were held for various sections at the institute: patients, doctors, nurses, and other staff, said IMH superintendent Dr. M. Umashankar. “Patients with mild mental illnesses, and those who have recovered, were also explained the medical services offered in various districts, and where they can get medicines,” said Dr. Umashankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/world-mental-health-day-today/article36924005.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four drug peddlers arrested||Four drug peddlers were arrested by the Special Operations Team of LB Nagar zone and 600 grams of ganja, 8 ML of hashish oil, a scooter and three mobile phones were seized from their possession. Acting on specific information, the SOT team along with Meerpet police apprehended Varala Santhosh (19), Ravva Philips Kalyan (35), Syed Aziz (23) and Burse Narendra Srinivas (24).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-drug-peddlers-arrested/article36923999.ece
10 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||3 nabbed for threatening eatery owner with air gun||The Khammam Two Town police on Saturday arrested three persons hailing from Nepal for allegedly threatening a local fast food centre owner, who is also a native of the Himalayan country, with an air gun over a financial matter. Those arrested have been identified as Ramachandra Bohara, 41, Suresh Bohara, 23, Sanil Bohara, 20, all residents of Yeshwanthpur near Bengaluru. Acting on a complaint filed by Tej Bahadur, a Nepali man who runs a fast food joint at Mayuri Centre in the town, police arrested the trio near the new bus stand here on Saturday morning. In his complaint, Tej Bahadur alleged that Ramachandra borrowed Rs. 4 lakh from him in 2014 but did not return the money despite several reminders in the last seven years. Bahadur accused Ramachandra and two others of threatening him with an air gun if he insisted on repayment of the debt in front of his rented house at VDOs Colony in the town on Thursday night. Further investigation in the case is under way, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-nabbed-for-threatening-eatery-owner-with-air-gun/article36924256.ece
10 October 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Students have lucky escape||More than 20 students of a private college had a lucky escape on Saturday when the brakes of a bus they were travelling failed and the driver controlled it. According to sources, the bus coming from Kandi to Sangareddy lost control and hit a roadside tree. The students and driver were unhurt. It was stated that the bus was not used for long time due to COVID-19 pandemic and improper maintenance of vehicle might have led to the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-have-lucky-escape/article36924010.ece
10 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Gouravelli oustees seek payment on a par with Mallannasagar||The oustees of Gudatipally village that would submerge under the proposed Gouravelli reservoir made it clear to the officials on Thursday that they must be paid compensation on par with oustees of Mallannasagar who were displaced from villages with a good compensation paid by the government. Further, they said that they would not vacate the village till all payments were cleared. Some 200 youth from submerging habitations — Gudatipally village and hamlets Banda Tanda, Sevya Naik Tanda, Somaji Tanda, Jalbavi Tanda, Chintal Tanda, Tenugupally and Maddelapally — met Husnabad Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) M. Jaychandra Reddy and submitted their representation. According to sources the officials expressed their willingness to offer a payment of Rs. 3 lakh to the youth who crossed 18 years as on date instead of Rs. 2 lakh announced in 2016 by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The youth rejected the offer and asserted that they must be paid compensation of Rs. 5 lakh plus 250 yards of house site as offered to the youth of Mallannasagar in the past and that there would be no compromise in this regard. “We will become landless and house-less after losing our lands and vacating our villages. Why should there be discrimination against us when we will also face the same fate like that of other oustees? What is the objection for government to offer same compensation?” the youth present in the meeting reportedly asked the RDO. However, the officials expressed their inability to offer more, stating that it was beyond their limits and any increase in compensation should be decided at State-level. The meeting ended inconclusively. As a follow up to the meeting, the officials started conducting a survey of youth beginning Friday. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in 2016 had announced Rs. 2 lakh compensation for the youth of Yellampally, Midmanair and Gouravelli project oustees. This was not paid so far. Currently the officials have been collecting data in the village by conducting a survey with details of 10th class memo and Aadhaar card. Now the problem is that there are many tribals and members of Budga Jangam community who do not have any education at all. We do not know what their fate will be and how the officials will take a decision in this regard,” village sarpanch Baddam Raji Reddy told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gouravelli-oustees-seek-payment-on-a-par-with-mallannasagar/article36924255.ece
10 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||High coal price hurting power sector, says official||Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Saturday said the power sector was going through a turbulent phase due to a 20% increase in consumption and a fall in thermal generation on account of depleting coal stocks. Coal reserves had come down substantially due to global shortages in the last one month. Of the 135 thermal power plants in the country, 108 faced a severe shortage. Coal stocks in 28 plants would barely last for a day as per the Coal Ministry data, he said at a press conference here. Mr. Srikant said India imported a substantial chunk of the coal from Indonesia, which was charging $162 per tonne as against $86.68 in April 2021. This obviously had a major impact on the power sector in the State. “Thermal power plants in the State had 40,000 tonnes of coal as on Saturday. It was 24,000 tonnes towards the fag end of September. Their combined daily coal requirement is 70,000 tonnes per day. Adequate coal stocks have to be maintained from October to January in order to be prepared for the coming summer,” he said, while appealing to consumers to curtail the usage of heavy duty appliances such as air-conditioners between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. till the crisis has passed. Mr. Srikant pointed out that 45% of the demand (nearly 80 MU) was being met by the AP-Genco plants and since one of them is not functional, generation had come down by 50%. The output of Central generating stations was not more than 75% (it is below 30 MU) against their 40 MU capacity due to the crisis that is looming on the national power sector. He said a maximum hydel generation of 25 MU could be achieved and the daily availability of solar power was 15 MU. While there was potential for a generation of 30 MU of wind energy, the actuals were hovering between 5 MU and 10 MU. Due to the steep fall in power generation, the State was forced to buy from the open market (exchanges) at rates three to four times higher than the normal ones. The present average rate was a whopping Rs. 15-a-unit. But, even the exchanges had little power to offer due to the crisis. He said the average daily consumption of power stood at 190 MU in October 2021 compared to 160 MU in the corresponding month last year.  Due to the steep fall in power generation, the State was forced to buy from the open market (exchanges) at rates three to four times higher than the normal ones N. Srikant Energy Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/depleting-coal-high-price-hurting-power-sector/article36924216.ece
10 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Meritorious students set to study in world-renowned institutions||Meritorious students from Rajasthan are set to study in the top 50 academic institutions of the world, including Oxford, Harvard and Stanford Universities, with a first-of-its-kind scholarship announced by the State government. Two hundred students will go abroad on the scholarship, starting from the current academic session. The Rajiv Gandhi scholarship for academic excellence will provide an annual maintenance allowance of Rs. 10 lakh and bear the entire cost of studies, including the tuition fee, visa fee and travel fare for the students. 30% of the scholarship awards will be given to girl students. Minister of State for Higher Education Bhanwar Singh Bhati said here on Saturday that the subjects related to humanities would be considered for the scholarship at the graduation level, while the bursary would be available for the subjects such as management, business administration, pure science, public health and law at the masters level and for doctorate and post-doctoral research. The scholarship will be given to only those students who have already secured admission in the 50 prescribed universities. The students of engineering, medicine and applied science will be considered for the scholarship if the seats remain vacant following the selection of candidates for other subjects. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had announced the launch of scholarship scheme, named after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, on his birth anniversary on August 20. The Higher Education Department has framed the rules for scholarship to implement it in the current academic session and invited applications from October 22. Less income families Mr. Bhati said though the State government would give preference to the students from the families whose annual income did not exceed Rs. 8 lakh, other candidates would also be considered if the seats were not filled within the given period. Besides, only one student from a family will be eligible to receive the scholarship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/meritorious-students-set-to-study-in-world-renowned-institutions/article36924204.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai Police summons CBI chief in data leak case||Cyber Cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned CBI director and former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswl in a phone tapping and data leak case, a senior official said here. Mr. Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The summons was sent by email, he added. The case relates to the `leak’ of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the State intelligence department (SID). Mr. Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period. It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Ms. Shukla or any other official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mumbai-police-summons-cbi-chief-in-data-leak-case/article36923898.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELH,||Rise of the fringe||In a narrow lane in an East Delhi locality is Vishnu Gupta’s makeshift office in a small residential property. The Hindu Sena chief keeps a Bhagavad Gita on his table, a religious poster behind his chair and a sword on the side next to the kitchen area. Mr. Gupta claims that he gives a Bhagavad Gita and a sword to all new members of the outfit so that they can “protect their family” and “only scare people, if required, by wielding the sword” Since the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014, phrases like “Hindutva”, “Hindu Rashtra”, “Jai Shri Ram”, “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” have become commonplace. One reason for this appears to be the mushrooming of fringe groups. Emboldened by the present regime, these outfits organise public gatherings and protests to propagate their beliefs. Recently, five members of the Hindu Sena were arrested for vandalising MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s house on Ashoka Road. In a Facebook post, a member, Lalit Kumar, who was later arrested, said he and his fellow members wanted to teach Mr. Owaisi “a lesson” because of his “anti-Hindu” speeches. At Jantar Mantar on August 8, several fringe groups, which had essentially gathered to demand abolition of British-era laws, turned the occasion into an event of “nationalism” where anti-Muslim slogans were raised.  Steady growth   The Hindu Sena, which came into existence in 2011, started with 50 members. Though it registered a steady growth till 2014 to boast a membership of 4 lakh, it added only another 1 lakh new members over the past six years. The outfit now has presence in 16 States, Mr. Gupta said, adding that over 10 lakh people have joined it through social media platforms. According to Mr. Gupta, the Hindu Sena accepts members “who are already trained in Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh shakhas” or those who “want a Hindu Rashtra”. “People who think like us come and join us. Social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp play an important role in propagating our work and belief. That’s how we have grown,” he said. Born in U.P.’s Etah village, Mr. Gupta was only six when he was drawn towards the idea of a Hindu Rashtra. He was witness to the events leading up to the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. “In 1990 and 1991, while attending a school run by the RSS, I used to see crowds gathering in the village and shouting “Jai Shri Ram”. There were slogans like ‘ Baccha baccha Ram ka… Janambhumi ke kaam ka ’ written on the walls of the village. I felt an adrenaline rush and that’s how the feeling of nationalism got instilled in me,” he said. While studying in Dyal Singh College, he joined the Shiv Sena’s youth wing. His seniors and peers told him, “You are aggressive, you should join the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s youth wing, the Bajrang Dal”. He joined the organisation in 2008. Mr. Gupta founded the Hindu Sena in 2011 because he wanted to be “more aggressive” and organise events on the issues he wanted. “The ruling party has to do vote bank politics, which is why I can’t speak freely for Hindus. I wanted to be free,” he said. Another fringe outfit which made headlines again after the Jantar Mantar incident was the Hindu Force founded by Deepak Singh. He was arrested in the second week of August for his alleged involvement in raising inflammatory slogans at Jantar Mantar. Speaking after his release from jail on October 1, Mr. Singh said 20-odd people started the organisation a year ago and its present strength was around 6,500. “We work for cows, the Ganga, and Hindus who need help,” he said. Mr. Singh, who used to work for the Bajrang Dal earlier, pursues a straightforward agenda: “ Simple objective hai... Samaj main dharmik jagran karna, logon ko rashtra ke prati aware karna, rashta bhawna jagana (The objective is simple – to make people aware about religion, about the nation and instil a feeling of nationalism)”. Sudarshan Vahini, another fringe outfit, was founded by Vinod Sharma. He also spent 52 days in jail recently for his involvement in the Jantar Mantar incident. Speaking after his release on September 30, he said his morale was down after the arrest and he might shut down the organisation if he “keeps getting into trouble”. Mr. Sharma founded the organisation in 2016 with three people. Thanks to social media, it now has 1.5 lakh members across the country, he said. A property dealer by profession, Mr. Sharma said he joined the Hindu Sena but parted ways with Mr. Gupta after a few years as their “thought process” didn’t match. Distancing himself from the Jantar Mantar incident, he called the sloganeering “behudgi (reckless)”. “Preach your own religion, don’t demean any other,” he advocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rise-of-the-fringe/article36923894.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Civilian killings in Valley a failure of security agencies’||Perturbed by the recent killing of civilians in the Valley, Kashmiri Pandits residing in the national capital have demanded that the Central government ensure that members of the community are safe in Kashmir and called the incidents a “failure” of security agencies. Members of various city-based Kashmiri Pandit groups, including Panun Kashmir, All India Kashmiri Samaj, Kashmiri Samiti Delhi, Roots in Kashmir Jammu Kashmir Vichar Manch and Youth 4 Panun Kashmir, gathered at Jantar Mantar on Saturday evening and voiced their anger against the killings. Dileep Mattoo, president of Jammu Kashmir Vichar Manch, said his friends and relatives in Kashmir are scared to even step out of their houses unless it’s very important. “This has been done to derail the peace process initiated by the Central government. They are trying to divide people again and scare the minority … just like in the ’90s,” he said. Ayushi Koul, a city-based student, said the recent killings have resulted in “rumours of another migration of minority groups” in Kashmir due to the “fear psychosis that has kicked in”. ‘Hope lost’ “There was a certain hope that we would be able to go back to the Valley and work there. But now it would take another decade for my family to believe that it is possible to return as they have experienced the trauma very closely,” Ms. Koul, whose family left Kashmir in the late 1990s, said. Badri Raina, a former Delhi University professor, said these killings are not hate crimes but political acts designed to thwart the consequences that followed the abrogation of provisions of Article 370. “Local Kashmiri Pandit associations had alerted the authorities that such things may happen. The security failure seems obvious. It needs to be recorded that the majority of civilians killed this year in the Valley were Muslims,” he said, adding that the recent killings must not be used to put mainstream Kashmiri Muslims in the dock. Utpal Kaul, Global Kashmiri Pandit Diaspora’s international coordinator, said when the violence erupted in the 1990s, the government “wasn’t strong”, which is why the exodus took place, but now what has happened is a reaction to the “pro-India narrative”. “What we demand from the government is that it should ensure that the Kashmiri Pandits are safe in the Valley and they are put in a security zone where they feel confident,” he said. M.K. Raina, a Delhi-based theatre personality who had migrated from Kashmir, said while he condemned the killings of minority members, “Muslims were also killed, nobody is talking about that”. ‘Must stand united’ “I think politicians only use us for propaganda purposes, and nothing else. A community must stand united; for 31 years we have been unable to do that and it has to be apolitical. The Muslims that were killed in Kashmir were also our people, the other dimension has to be shown,” he said, adding that the biggest danger is the incidents leading to communal violence. Arun Koul, a protester associated with Kashmiri Samiti Delhi, said that people in Kashmir were now “facing the same situation that we faced in the 1990s”. “Kashmiri Pandits have suffered since 1947; our houses were attacked with stones whenever Pakistan would lose a cricket match, not necessarily against India only. No government has come forward to help us as a community. There are other Ministers, apart from Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi, who can look into this issue. The PM cannot look at every issue; the BJP has promised a lot but apart from the Rs. 500-crore package for Kashmiri Pandits, nothing much has been done,” said Mr. Koul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civilian-killings-in-valley-a-failure-of-security-agencies/article36923880.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal seeks PM’s intervention on coal crisis||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the prevailing coal shortage, which he alleged was continuing for the third consecutive month, affecting power generation from major plants supplying electricitiy to Delhi. The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) Tariff Regulations, the Chief Minister said, mandated that generating stations maintain a coal stock of 10 days and 20 days; but these had dipped to zero to four days at five of the stations. “Under this situation, the dependency on gas stations supplying power to Delhi increases. However, the gas plants do not have adequate APM gas [Administered Pricing Mechanism] to run at full capacity,” Mr. Kejriwal said. If the situation continued unabated, the CM added, it would severely impact the power supply to Delhi. Discourage profiteering Mr. Kejriwal sought the PM’s intervention for diversion of coal and gas to specific plants supplying power to the Capital and capping of exchange power rates to discourage profiteering by traders and generators from the current crisis. These measures, he said, were essential to maintain uninterrupted power in Delhi, which caters to strategic and important installations of national importance. This was in addition to supplying power to essential services such as cold chains for vaccination drives, hosp-itals, healthcare centres and COVID Care Centres among others, Mr. Kejriwal said. “In the interest of consumers of Delhi and the power sector, I request your kind intervention to resolve the current crisis at the earliest,” Mr. Kejriwal said, adding that steps needed to be taken to avoid such a situation in future. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor questioned the efforts made by the Delhi government during the last fortnight to ensure proper supply of coal and gas for city’s power plants. “Whenever a crisis hits Delhi, be it pollution, water shortage, COVID-19 or an ensuing power crisis, the Delhi government humbly pleads for help to the Centre, but the moment the crisis passes, AAP criticises the Centre to no end,” Mr. Kapoor alleged. “The people of Delhi now well understand this dirty politics of AAP and it will face the consequences in the ensuing civic elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-seeks-pms-intervention-on-coal-crisis/article36923890.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP going against HC order on ration scheme’||Terming it “a historic new low” for the political spectrum of the country, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the BJP-led Centre had decided to go against a High Court order to fuel its “political ambition”. AAP chief spokesperson and MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj alleged that the BJP had used the Centre “as its own machinery” and “blocked” the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme. The Centre had, Mr. Bharadwaj alleged, written to the Delhi government stating that it will not allow the doorstep delivery of ration scheme after the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers’ Sangh made a representation to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal against the scheme. He said the same group had also gone to court against the Delhi government and witnessed the “court’s green light” to the ration delivery scheme. The development points towards a clear “nexus between the BJP and the ration mafia”, he alleged. ‘Gamechanger scheme’ “It is one thing to go against the law and another to go against the court. The BJP has lost all sense of morality and gone against a High Court order that permitted the Kejriwal government to implement the doorstep ration delivery scheme,” he said. Mr. Bharadwaj said it’s a gamechanger scheme, which thousands of families have given their support to. “These families are eagerly waiting for this scheme to be implemented so they can get out of the shackles of the ration mafia,” he said. In a letter from the Union Ministry of Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution to the Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Delhi government, it was stated that while distributing foodgrains to beneficiaries, the city government had to comply with the norms and provisions of NFSA Act 2013. The letter also stated that the proposal under consideration for home delivery of ration does not meet the norms of NFSA and the government of India does not allow it. Mr. Bhardwaj said it was noteworthy that the High Court had refused to accept these submissions. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said neither the BJP nor the Centre had any problem with the city government’s doorstep ration distribution if it “arranged its own ration”. The NFSA quota ration is for distribution through fair price shops and it is a countrywide policy, he said. “Saurabh Bharadwaj should know that even the Delhi High Court has said the government can start doorstep ration scheme but it should never stop ration distribution through Fair Price Shops,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-going-against-hc-order-on-ration-scheme/article36923881.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||32 violators fined in dust-control drive||As many as 32 construction sites were fined around Rs. 15 lakh for violation of dust-control norms after Delhi government officials visited 103 sites on Saturday, according to authorities. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said all guidelines issued by the Delhi government are being followed by most construction sites. “Today, I conducted a surprise inspection at a construction site of a commercial complex. We found no violations. I am happy that whatever guidelines have been issued by the Delhi government for construction agencies are being followed here. Tin shed has been put up, an anti-smog gun has also been installed. Water sprinkling is being done. I am sure that all agencies of Delhi will follow the government instructions in the same way,” Mr. Rai said. The Minister appealed to all private and government construction agencies to follow the norms. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on October 4 announced a ‘winter action plan’ to combat air pollution during winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/32-violators-fined-in-dust-control-drive/article36923889.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||DU second cut-off list sees marginal decline||Delhi University released its second cut-off list on Saturday with the required marks seeing a marginal decline from the first list and many courses being closed for admissions. Hindu College, which had pegged a cut-off at 100% for BA (Honours) political science, has closed admissions to the course in the second list. Admissions to BA (Honours) philosophy, BA (Honours) English, BA (Honours) Hindi, BA (Honours) history, BA (Honours) Sanskrit and BA (Honours) sociology have also closed at the college. Ramjas College, which had pegged the cut-off for political science (Honours) at 100%, has not affected any change in the marks required in the second cut-off while the cut-off for BSc (Honours) physics has come down to 99.33% from 100%. The cut-off for the BA Programme combination in the college has dropped to 99.5% from 100%. Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), which had pegged the cut-offs for BA (Honours) economics and BCom (Honours) at 100%, has reduced the asking marks to 99.75% and 99.12%, respectively, in the second list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-second-cut-off-list-sees-marginal-decline/article36923877.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||New bridge opens over Agra Canal in Badarpur||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday inaugurated a new bridge over the Agra Canal in the Badarpur Assembly constituency. Seamless travel The bridge has reduced travel time for commuters from half an hour to just five minutes, as they can avoid the route via Kalindi Kunj. “This bridge is very useful for the people of Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and has been constructed by the Flood and Irrigation Department of the Government of Uttar Pradesh,” Mr. Bidhuri said. U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had, while campaigning for the BJP during the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections in the Badarpur constituency, promised swift construction work of the bridge. He had also met Uttar Pradesh Water Resources Minister Mahendra Singh for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-bridge-opens-over-agra-canal-in-badarpur/article36923891.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 firefighters injured during operation||Four firemen sustained injuries after a building collapsed due to an explosion during a firefighting operation in Narela on Saturday, the Delhi Fire Service said. DFS officials said they received a call at 7.15 a.m. about a fire at a factory in Outer North Delhi’s Narela Industrial Area and a total of 33 fire tenders were pressed into service. The fire broke out at a paper plates manufacturing unit on the first floor of the building. “During the firefighting operation, there was an explosion and the building collapsed as a result of which a fireman was injured and three others suffered burn injuries,” DFS chief Atul Garg said. The injured firemen were taken to Ganga Ram Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-firefighters-injured-during-operation/article36923878.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||UPSC aspirant found dead||A 25-year-old civil services aspirant was found dead at her rented accommodation in central Delhi’s Rajender Nagar on Friday night. No note was recovered, the police said. A senior officer said the deceased was from Uttar Pradesh and had come to Delhi in June to prepare for the UPSC exams. She had been residing in Old Rajender Nagar since October 2. The police said they received a PCR call at 11.50 p.m. regarding the incident. Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/upsc-aspirant-found-dead/article36923882.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||Manoj Tiwari takes out Chhath Rath Yatra to protest festival ban||North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday began a ‘Chhath Rath Yatra’ from his constituency against the “Delhi government’s decision to ban the observance of the festival” at public places. The BJP leader organised a public consultation at north-east Delhi’s Sonia Vihar to seek opinion on the ban on Chhath Puja in early November when other festive events in the run-up to it had been allowed. “The unequivocal opinion was that Chhath Puja must be observed no matter what,” he said. Mr. Tiwari accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of harbouring disrespect for over 60 lakh Purvanchalis residing in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manoj-tiwari-takes-out-chhath-rath-yatra-to-protest-festival-ban/article36923888.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Visually impaired man killed in scuffle||A visually challenged street vendor was killed when a stone hit him while he was trying to intervene in a fight between two persons in Outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri on October 6, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said the deceased has been identified as Radhey Shyam who used to run a small kiosk. Inquiry revealed that another visually impaired woman used to sleep on the footpath close to Shyam’s kiosk. “A man was sleeping at a distance from the woman. When he woke up, he found that Rs. 20-Rs. 30 was missing from his pocket. He suspected the woman had stolen his money and started quarrelling with her,” Mr. Singh said. Hearing the commotion, Shyam came out to intervene. When the accused threw a stone at the woman, it hit Shyam instead, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/visually-impaired-man-killed-in-scuffle/article36923892.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Social media gets a Gandhian platform: Pixstory||From communal riots to transistor blasts and crimes of passion, Delhi is no stranger to felonies but the greatest criminal offence in the national capital was committed on January 30, 1948, when Mahatma Gandhi was shot dead at a prayer meeting by Nathuram Godse. In a newly published book — The Murderer, The Monarch and the Fakir: A New Investigation of Mahatma Gandhi’s Assassination — Washington DC-based senior journalist Appu Esthose Suresh revisited the murder that shook the nation seven decades ago. Research for the book coincided with the urban protests in America and India in recent years that were heavily influenced by Gandhian slogans and ideals. Appu saw that Gandhi’s non-violence had new challengers — fake news and hate speeches. The interconnection between social justice and the need for correct information in the ‘hashtag era’ was established as Appu witnessed the online clashes between pro- and anti-government activists and cyberwarriors. Appu and his co-author, Priyanka Kotamraju, not only researched and wrote the book but also took the Gandhian message a step further by starting a Gandhi-inspired social media platform — Pixstory — that flags intolerance and hate speeches. The Gandhian calling came naturally to Appu, who had been researching on the Mahatma’s life and assassination for many years, beginning with his stay at North Campus, Delhi University, which was the first part of the Capital he explored. North Campus stories North Campus, a group of colleges situated next to each other, has nurtured generations of Indians over the last century and been a hub of inspiring tales. While pursuing a bachelor’s degree from St. Stephen’s College, young Appu discovered one such story. In the Rudra North Block where he spent his undergraduate years, Appu discovered that it was St. Stephen’s College Principal S.K. Rudra who had asked the Vice-Principal, C.F. Andrews, to visit South Africa and persuade Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi to return to India. Upon his return from South Africa, Mahatma Gandhi resided at the residence of Principal Rudra and gave shape to the Khilafat and the non-cooperation movement. The Gandhian influence stayed with the author during his years in journalism when he worked with The Indian Express and several other publications and his academic stint at the London School of Economics, finally leading him to fight a menace that has acquired an all-pervasive form — fake news. The book’s co-author, Priyanka, too has a vast experience of working with women and Adivasi groups. She has worked in the past with the famous Khabar Lahariya , a feminist news organisation that is run entirely by women. Pixstory is already entering into international tie-ups with prominent names and is among the first such Indian-driven ventures which has received substantial support globally. The platform is also available as an app, aimed at giving news and also detecting and filtering fake and misleading information. Driven by Appu’s early political influences, and floated by him and senior journalist Jayanth Jacob, Pixstory reflects the idea that fake news amounts to abuse of power. It calls itself a fact-based and evidence-based social media platform. During a meeting with The Hindu, Appu pointed out the way leading social media platforms have been unable to contain the spread of hate as they are based on profit-chasing format.       “We have taken a principled stand that our profit margins will not be high but we will not compromise on filtering hate,” said Appu, explaining the element of risk that he is taking in launching a platform that does not intend to empower or reward the hate mongers online. Like other such ventures, Pixstory has a news section and segments where engagements on social issues of importance will be taken up. The Pixstory teams are presently operating from Delhi and Washington DC. They include experienced journalists and social media professionals, working round the clock to add the much-needed diversity to the social media world and, hopefully, free it of toxic hate and intolerance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/social-media-gets-a-gandhian-platform-pixstory/article36923887.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The merchant who bought a mosque||The redone arterial road of Shahjahanabad has attracted attention towards conserving the historical architectural facades of several buildings along the stretch that connects Sri Digambar Lal Jain Mandir to Fatehpuri Masjid. Along with the facades of heritage homes, there is an urgent need to conserve family and lifestyle histories as part of intangible heritage. In this regard, Lala Chunnamal, the largest living mansion on the iconic street, illustrates a fascinating account. The Chandni Chowk and surrounding lanes and by-lanes represent, along with several other layers, the lifestyles of the landed elites, merchant classes and evolving middle-class professionals. Several mansions reflect the Mughal period and the British rule in Delhi. Many of these families aligned with the Mughals for practical reasons and changed their allegiance to the new British masters, impacting the nature of lifestyles and architecture. ‘Lalacracy’ era The period and predominance of merchants and the new landed class in different cities have been described as ‘Lalacracy’ by eminent historian Narayani Gupta in Delhi Between Two Empires 1803-1931: Society, Government and Urban Growth . Built in 1864, the Chunnamal Haveli continues to be used by Lala’s sixth-generation descendant Anil Pershad and his family. A successful trader, Chunnamal was primarily a cloth merchant (indicative of the exact location of the house in Katra Neel) and had significant trade links in Kolkata, and a summer home in Shimla. Soon after 1857, Lala Chunnamal bought a large part of the present-day Chandni Chowk and the Fatehpuri Masjid in an auction for a pittance. “Most mosques were closed for a couple of years after the rebellion; many Muslims fled the city. My grandfather, a practical businessman, watched out for the shops around the mosque. The family-owned shops built Shivalayas, Dharamshalas and drinking water kiosks in Shahjahanabad, Mehrauli, Nangloi, etc. So why could he not manage a mosque,” remarks Pershad. He says the family owned the shops from the erstwhile Majestic cinema to the Baptist Church and the area behind the present Bhagirath Palace. “After some years, the family returned the Fatehpuri mosque to the Muslim community. The British recognised the gesture and gave us some villages as a gift,” adds Pershad. Unlike many others, knowingly or inadvertently, the Chunnamal family saved a mosque from being demolished or turned into a bakery shop or a garrison for the armed forces when the British took over after the First War of Independence. The grand mansion integrated sturdy cast-iron balconies and spun spiral staircases, wooden Venetian windows, and used stained glass. The interiors characterise Indo-Western aesthetics decor like the famed Osler glassware chandeliers for candles, Belgian mirrors, European furniture, clocks, telephones, fireplaces, and even maintenance tools for the fireplace. Sophisticated crafts to embellish the interiors include clay tiles from Sindh that provide a carpet look. The gold-plated stucco work in the ceiling is offset with natural indigo. Ice emerged as a much-wanted product since the British required it to cool their drinks and water. Chunnamal owned the famous Baraf Khana or the ice-making unit in North Delhi, the Old Subzi Mandi and Pul Bangash. “Twice-elected to the Municipal Corporation, he was one of the few Indians who were granted membership of the Delhi Gymkhana Club during the British days,” remembers Pershad. High life The Chunnamal family bred horses, some were housed in their home stables, while others were in the Delhi Race Club. A special place for the family was their Rambagh Garden near the Roshanara Club. Viceroys visited, Indira Gandhi came to dine, and the family participated in horse races, including winning the Aminabad horseshow in Lucknow. Some members of the family even came to be members of the secret society of the Freemasons, who continued to meet in the Qudsia Bagh in Civil Lines. The courtyard hosted gatherings of courtesans, which women of the family watched from behind the bamboo curtains. Pershad’s daughter-in-law Swetcha Pershad described how female service providers like washerwomen and barbers transmitted ‘news’ from one zenana or women quarters to other havelis. The hustle-bustle of the home saw the women under the guidance of a Parsi governess acquire skills in cooking western dishes, accessing recipes from the Woman & Home magazine launched in the 1920s. Organisations like the UNESCO and urban governments in different parts of the world attempt to formulate policies to balance development with preserving historic urban landscapes. They involve stakeholders, incentivise owners of heritage homes to retain facades while making the inside of dwellings modern. The remaking of the Chandni Chowk requires holistic policies and their execution before many of more than 30 private-public owned heritage buildings are replaced by buildings that do not go with the character of the historical landscape.  (The author is an expert on cultural heritage)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-merchant-who-bought-a-mosque/article36923885.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi vows full ‘reunification’ with Taiwan||China’s President Xi Jinping on Saturday said “national reunification by peaceful means” with Taiwan “will and can be realised”, speaking amid what Taiwan officials have called the worst tensions in four decades. Mr. Xi was speaking a day before October 10, which is celebrated in China as the 110th anniversary of the 1911 Xinhai Revolution, and marked in Taiwan as its National Day. The 1911 revolution began at Wuchang on October 10 of that year, ultimately leading to the end of the Qing Dynasty and the establishment of the Republic of China (ROC). After the end of the Chinese Civil War between the Communists and Nationalists, Mao Zedong’s Communist Party established the People’s Republic of China in 1949 while Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang fled to Taiwan, declaring Taipei as the capital of the ROC. Mr. Xi on Saturday said “the Taiwan question arose out of the weakness and chaos of the Chinese nation, and it will be resolved as national rejuvenation becomes a reality.” “This is determined by the general trend of Chinese history, but more importantly, it is the common will of all Chinese people,” he was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua news agency, adding that “national reunification by peaceful means best serves the interests of the Chinese nation as a whole, including compatriots in Taiwan.” “Compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait should stand on the right side of history and join hands to achieve China’s complete reunification and the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation,” he said. “Those who forget their heritage, betray their motherland, and seek to split the country will come to no good end. “The complete reunification of our country will be and can be realised,” he added. His comments on the anniversary followed a series of aerial intrusions into Taiwan’s Air Defence Identification Zone by the PLA Air Force, with a record 38 aircraft on October 1, when China marked its National Day, followed by 39 on October 2 and 56 on October 4. Taiwan’s Defence Minister described the current tensions as the worst in 40 years. The legacy of the 1911 revolution is contested by both China and Taiwan. Mr. Xi on Saturday said “the past 110 years have shown us that to realise national rejuvenation, the Chinese people must have a strong force to lead us forward, and that force is the Communist Party of China.” Tsai’s national address On Sunday, Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen is expected to deliver a National Day address. In last year’s address, Ms. Tsai said “maintaining stability in cross-strait relations is in the best interests of both sides”. She said Taiwan was “committed to upholding cross-strait stability, but this is not something Taiwan can shoulder alone; it is the joint responsibility of both sides.” The current status quo has, however, come under increasing stress, with Beijing stepping up pressure on Taiwan since Ms. Tsai’s election in 2016 and re-election last year, accusing her Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) of pursuing “independence”. The Communist Party’s official view is, as Mr. Xi said on Saturday, pushing for re-unification by peaceful means, although it has not ruled out the use of force. Beijing has also increasingly sought to push back against Taiwan’s presence in international bodies and to wean away the 15 remaining countries that continue to maintain diplomatic ties with Taiwan. The Taiwan issue is also among the key tensions in China-U.S. relations, with Beijing recently criticising U.S. comments on the aerial intrusions. On Saturday, Mr. Xi said “the Taiwan question is purely an internal matter for China, one which brooks no external interference.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-vows-full-reunification-with-taiwan/article36923540.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Why natural gas prices are soaring around the world||This is supposed to be an off season. Winter is yet to set in. But natural gas prices soared over the past few months, especially in Europe. The price of natural gas in Europe is now six times higher than what it was last year. Across the continent, natural gas inventories are falling. On Wednesday, the benchmark Dutch gas futures price jumped 40% in the morning trade to touch €162.13 a megawatt-hour, an eight-year high, but reversed course after Russian President Vladimir Putin assured Europe of supplies. But even after the day’s fall, gas prices in Europe remained twice as high as they were a month earlier. And on Friday, prices started rising again. What’s driving up the prices? Supply constraints A host of reasons, from economic recovery to geopolitics, are attributed to the price rise. Global energy demand fell last year when economies slipped into COVID-induced lockdowns. When growth returned this year, especially to Asian economies, demand shot up and energy producers struggled to meet the growing demand, pushing up prices. Even in the U.S., the world’s largest natural gas producer, prices rose from $1.7 per million British thermal units on March 31 to $6.3 per mBtu on Oct. 5. Europe, which is heavily dependent on imports to meet its energy demand, was particularly hit hard. As part of Europe’s shift towards cleaner energy, many countries had moved away from coal to gas to produce electricity. This increased Europe’s reliance on gas. On the other side, the continent’s natural gas production has shrunk over the years, as many countries shut down production fields over environmental concerns. If Europe’s natural gas production (excluding Russia) was about 300 billion cubic metres in 2005, it fell to less than 200 bcm in 2021, according to Rystad Energy. Norway, Europe’s main producer of natural gas, has seen its production shrink from 117.6 bcm in 2015 to 105.3 bcm in 2021. This has left Europe largely dependent on Russia. Energy geopolitics As prices shot up amid growing worldwide demand and falling production in Europe, supplies from Russia via a pipeline that passes through Ukraine and Poland also shrank, which made the situation worse. Russia has built another gas pipeline, Nord Stream 2, which will take Russian gas directly to Germany bypassing Ukraine and Poland, whose governments are critical of the Kremlin. But supplies to Europe through Nord Stream 2 are yet to start as the pipeline is awaiting approval from European authorities. In the past when Europe’s energy demand shot up, Russia had stepped up supplies. But this year, Gazprom, Russia’s state-controlled energy giant that supplies about 35% of Europe’s gas requirements, has booked less additional exports than the traders wanted, adding pressure on supplies. The International Energy Agency said this week Russian exports to Europe this year were lower than they were in 2019. This has fuelled speculation that Mr. Putin is using the energy crunch in Europe to get approval from the EU for the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Several countries in Europe as well as the U.S. remain critical of the pipeline, which they say would help Russia enhance its leverage over the continent and would also allow Russia to economically punish Ukraine and Poland. U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan told the BBC on Thursday any attempts by Russia to exploit the crisis would backfire. Putin’s assurance The Kremlin has dismissed such criticism, saying Russia has no role in the energy crunch. On Wednesday, Mr. Putin said the amount of gas flowing through the operational pipeline is set to exceed volumes agreed under Gazprom’s contract with Ukraine. He also said Russia could “reach another record of deliveries of our energy resources to Europe, including gas”. This temporarily calmed the markets. But Mr. Putin didn’t say how Russia was going to step up supplies — through the existing pipeline or Nord Stream 2? Russian officials have already said Gazprom can send more gas to Europe if Nord Stream 2 comes online quickly. It is to be seen if additional supplies would be tied to a quick approval for the pipeline. Furthermore, the Russian domestic gas market also remains tight. Inventories are running low, and winter is coming, which would shoot up demand constraining Russia’s export capacity. And demand is rising not only in Europe and the Americas, but also in Asia. Coal shortages in India and China could drive up prices of natural gas further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/why-natural-gas-prices-are-soaring-around-the-world/article36923551.ece
10 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. court allows Texas to resume ban on abortions||A U.S. federal appeals court ruled on Friday that Texas could resume its ban on most abortions, two days after another court suspended the ban. The decision by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals temporarily set aside Wednesday’s ruling, effectively reinstating a ban on most abortions once a fetal heartbeat is detected. On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Robert Pitman issued a preliminary injunction halting enforcement of the Texas law, saying it violated the landmark 1973 Supreme Court ruling in Roe v. Wade, which enshrined a woman’s legal right to an abortion. Texas Attorney-General Ken Paxton, a Republican, appealed that decision and the appeal was granted on Friday. “Great news tonight,” Mr. Paxton tweeted shortly after the ruling. “I will fight federal overreach at every turn.” Appointments for patients seeking abortions after six weeks of pregnancy would be cancelled until further notice, the family-planning healthcare provider said. Laws restricting abortion have been passed in other Republican-led states but were struck down by the courts. “The Supreme Court needs to step in and stop this madness,” Nancy Northup, president and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights, said. The “Texas Heartbeat Act” allows members of the public to sue doctors who perform abortions, or anyone who helps facilitate them, once a fetal heartbeat is detected — usually at around six weeks. They can be rewarded with $10,000 for initiating cases that lead to prosecution, prompting charges that the law encourages people to act as vigilantes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-court-allows-texas-to-resume-ban-on-abortions/article36923550.ece
10 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka may hold provincial polls in early 2022||Sri Lanka will hold elections to its Provincial Councils early in 2022 after passing a constitutional amendment required to revert to the Proportional Representation electoral system, the government has indicated. The government’s intent to conduct the long-delayed polls became apparent in a meeting of a parliamentary committee on electoral reforms held on Friday. Following the meeting, Opposition legislator and Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA) Leader Mano Ganesan said Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa had agreed to the conduct of polls in the “first quarter of 2022”. The announcement comes days after Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla raised the early conduct of provincial polls in his meetings with the Sri Lankan leadership, during an official visit. Constitutional changes However, the prospect of Sri Lanka’s provincial elections hinges on a constitutional amendment needed to revert to the proportionate representation system that was followed until the former Maithripala Sirisena — Ranil Wickremesinghe government in 2017 amended election laws to shift to a Mixed-Member Proportional Representation electoral system, based on a delimitation exercise. With a report on new electoral boundaries failing to get parliamentary approval, authorities hit a roadblock to holding the polls to the nine provincial councils whose terms lapsed in 2018 and 2019. They have been under the respective Governors’ rule since. Addressing the media, Mr. Mano Ganesan said: “The government appears confident of being able to pass the amendment and has instructed the subject minister to take necessary steps. Although we are in Opposition, we would support such an amendment in Parliament in the interest of holding the provincial polls without further delay.” In 2019, Opposition MP and Jaffna legislator of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) M.A. Sumanthiran presented a private member’s Bill seeking early polls to provincial councils under the old system, by repealing the 2017 legislation. This was a shift from TNA’s earlier position backing the 2017 amendment for electoral reforms that critics cite as the main reason for delayed polls. The Rajapaksa administration — including President Gotabaya Rajapaksa himself — has in the past underscored the need to hold provincial elections without further delay, but there has been no follow up action. In addition to the constitutional amendment that is required to proceed, there is a cost factor that the government would consider, especially when Sri Lanka’s economy is reeling under the impact of the pandemic. Not just India, but several international actors have endorsed early polls in Sri Lanka. It also found mention in the resolution passed by the UN Human Rights Council in March this year. The resolution, backed by 22 member countries, called upon the Government of Sri Lanka to “fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, which is integral to reconciliation and the full enjoyment of human rights by all members of its population, and encouraging the Government to respect local governance, including through the holding of elections for provincial councils, and to ensure that all provincial councils, including the northern and eastern provincial councils, are able to operate effectively, in accordance with the thirteenth amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka.” Although the provincial system came as a response to Tamils’ demand for greater political power, the councils have proved important for all political parties, including in the Sinhala majority south, to keep their machinery well-oiled at the grassroot level. This, despite the Centre — across governments — remaining reluctant to part with land and police powers. The Councils have some legislative powers — by passing statutes — in areas such as agriculture, education, health, housing, and road transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-may-hold-provincial-polls-in-early-2022/article36923536.ece
10 October 2021||Islamabad,||Taliban: won’t cooperate with U.S. to contain Islamic State||The Taliban on Saturday ruled out cooperation with the U.S. to contain extremist groups in Afghanistan, staking out an uncompromising position on a key issue ahead of the first direct talks between the former foes since America withdrew from the country in August. Senior Taliban officials and U.S. representatives are meeting on Saturday and Sunday in Doha. Officials from both sides have said issues include reining in extremist groups and the evacuation of foreign citizens and Afghans from the country. The Taliban have signaled flexibility on evacuations. Taliban political spokesman Suhail Shaheen said there would be no cooperation with Washington on going after the increasingly active Islamic State group affiliate in Afghanistan. IS has taken responsibility for a number of attacks, including Friday’s suicide bombing at a mosque in Kunduz. “We are able to tackle Daesh independently,” Shaheen said, when asked whether the Taliban would work with the U.S. to contain the Islamic State affiliate. He used an Arabic acronym for IS. The weekend meetings in Doha are the first since U.S. forces withdrew from Afghanistan in late August, ending a 20-year military presence, and the Taliban rose to power in the nation. The U.S. has made it clear the talks are not a preamble to recognition. The talks also come on the heels of two days of difficult discussions between Pakistani officials and U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman in Islamabad. The focus of those talks was also Afghanistan. Pakistani officials urged the U.S. to engage with the Taliban and release billions of dollars in international funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-wont-cooperate-with-us-to-contain-islamic-state/article36923549.ece
10 October 2021||Vienna,||Austria’s Kurz steps down as Chancellor||Austria’s Sebastian Kurz on Saturday announced he was stepping down as Chancellor following pressure on him to resign after he was implicated in a corruption scandal. In a televised media statement, Mr. Kurz said he wanted to “make space to prevent chaos”. “We need stability,” the 35-year-old conservative said, adding it would be “irresponsible” to allow Austria to “slide into months of chaos or gridlock” while the EU member fights the pandemic. Mr. Kurz said he would nominate Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg as new Chancellor, while he would stay on as the leader of his People’s Party (OeVP) and a lawmaker in Parliament. Vice-Chancellor and Greens leader Werner Kogler on Friday asked the OeVP to name another Chancellor, saying Mr. Kurz was “no longer fit for office”. Several raids On Wednesday, prosecutors raided several locations linked to the OeVP and announced that Mr. Kurz and nine other individuals were under investigation over claims that government money was used in a corrupt deal to ensure positive media coverage. Mr. Kurz has denied any wrongdoing, reiterating on Saturday that the allegations against him were “false.” “I will be able to clarify it; I’m sure about that,” he said calmly. He said some of the text messages he wrote that got him into hot water were composed in “the heat of the moment”. By stepping down, Mr. Kurz avoids having to face a no-confidence motion, which he was expected to lose after his junior coalition partner, the Greens, turned against him. In the latest scandal, according to prosecutors, the core allegation is that between 2016 and 2018, Finance Ministry resources were used to finance “partially manipulated opinion polls that served an exclusively party political interest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/austrias-kurz-steps-down-as-chancellor/article36923655.ece
10 October 2021||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopian forces strike Tigray rebels||Ethiopian troops and their allies are launching air and ground strikes against Tigray rebels in the northern region of Amhara, humanitarian and rebel sources siad, amid growing speculation of a major offensive. A spokesman for the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which has been locked in a brutal conflict with pro-government forces in northern Ethiopia for 11 months, said Saturday there was a “massive move” against the rebels. Will defend honour: PM The reports come just days after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was sworn in for a new term, vowing to defend “Ethiopia’s honour” despite mounting international criticism of the war and alarm about the desperate humanitarian crisis it has triggered. TPLF spokesman Getachew Reda said there had been “mostly air, drone and artillery bombardment” of rebels, and reported a major troop build-up, saying “tens of thousands are amassed” in northern Amhara including the North Gondar and North Wollo zones. “We are confident we will thwart the offensive in all fronts and more,” he said. “We will stand our ground until the siege is lifted.” Humanitarian sources said that federal soldiers and Amhara regional troops conducted air and ground offensives in the North Wollo area and other locations on Thursday and Friday. Representatives from Amhara, as well as federal and military officials, did not respond to requests for comment and the reported military operations could not be independently confirmed by AFP. The war erupted in November when Mr. Abiy sent troops into Tigray to topple the TPLF, the regional ruling party and former national rulers, a move he said came in response to TPLF attacks on federal army camps. Although government forces quickly took control of Tigray’s cities and towns, the TPLF recaptured most of the region including the capital Mekele by late June and Mr. Abiy later declared a unilateral ceasefire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-forces-launch-offensive-on-tigray-rebels/article36923543.ece
10 October 2021||Beirut,||Blackout in Lebanon after fuel shortage||Lebanon was plunged into a total blackout on Saturday after two main power stations went offline because they ran out of fuel, the state electricity corporation said. The Mediterranean country is battling one of the planet’s worst economic crises since the 1850s, and has in recent months struggled to import enough fuel oil for its power plants. State electricity in most places is barely available for an hour a day amid rolling power cuts, while the fuel needed to power private back-up generators is also in short supply. “After the Deir Ammar power station was forced to stop producing power yesterday morning (Friday) due its gasoil reserves running out, the Zahrani plant also stopped this afternoon for the same reason,” Electricite du Liban said in a statement. This led to the network’s “complete collapse without any possibility of restoring it for the time being”, it said. It was the second such complete outage reported by EDL since the start of the month, after a similar incident last Saturday. A source at the Energy Ministry said that all was being done “to find a way out of the problem”. EDL said that a fuel oil shipment was expected to arrive on Saturday evening, and was expected to unload at the beginning of next week. Restoring electricity is one of the many tough tasks facing Lebanon’s new government, formed last month after 13 months of political wrangling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blackout-in-lebanon-as-power-stations-run-out-of-fuel/article36923546.ece
10 October 2021||Kunduz,||Afghan blast toll crosses 60||Mourners from Afghanistan’s Shia community buried their dead on Saturday after a suicide attack on a mosque killed over 60 people, in the bloodiest assault since U.S. forces’ withdrawal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-blast-toll-crosses-60/article36923538.ece
10 October 2021||Riyadh,||10 hurt in drone attack on Saudi airport blamed on Yemen Huthis||Ten people were wounded in a drone attack on a civilian airport in the Saudi city of Jeddah that was blamed on Yemen’s Iran-backed Houthi rebels, official media said on Saturday. The Saudi-led coalition fighting alongside the Yemeni government, quoted by the Saudi news agency SPA, said travellers and airport employees were among those injured.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/10-hurt-in-drone-attack-on-saudi-airport-blamed-on-yemen-huthis/article36923537.ece
10 October 2021||Prague,||Czech PM wins vote but without majority: preliminary results||Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis won the general election on Saturday but will struggle to put together a parliamentary majority. Preliminary results showed the billionaire’s ANO party came first with 28% of the vote, a week after he was named in the Pandora Papers investigation.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/czech-pm-wins-vote-but-without-majority-preliminary-results/article36923541.ece
10 October 2021||Tehran,||Iran's first president Abolhassan Banisadr dies||Iran’s first President after the 1979 Islamic revolution, Abolhassan Banisadr, died in a Paris hospital on Saturday aged 88, after decades of exile in France following his dismissal by Parliament. Banisadr won Iran's first free election in 1980 to become president hot on the heels of the previous year's Islamic revolution.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-first-president-abolhassan-banisadr-dies/article36923545.ece
10 October 2021||New Delhi,||India may need to rescind digital tax||India may have to withdraw digital services tax or the equalisation levy and give a commitment not to introduce such measures in the future if the global minimum tax deal comes through. In a major reform of the international tax system, 136 countries, including India, have agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15% rate. However, the deal requires countries to remove all digital services tax and other similar measures and to commit not to introduce such measures in the future, the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said in its implementation plan on Friday. “No newly enacted digital services taxes or other relevant similar measures will be imposed on any company from October 8 and until the earlier of December 31, 2023, or the coming into force of the MLC (multilateral convention),” the OECD said. The proposed two-pillar solution of the global tax deal consists of two components — Pillar One which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax subject to tax rules. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this week said that India was “very close” to arriving at the specifics of the two-pillar taxation proposition at the G-20 and was in the last stage of finalising the details. The Finance Ministers of G-20 countries are scheduled to meet on October 13 in Washington and finalise it. “As a significant move, the OECD has sought for an immediate and upfront withdrawal of unilateral digital services tax and a commitment not to introduce such measures in the future,” Nangia Andersen Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said commenting on the OECD’s latest statement. The modality for the removal of existing digital services taxes and other similar measures needs to be appropriately coordinated, Mr. Jhunjhunwala observed. Timeline deferred “Pillar Two which was initially proposed to be brought into effect from 2023 has now been deferred to 2024,” he added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. Partner Gouri Puri said a consensus was key to securing a more stable tax regime for multinationals and governments. “While the fine print is awaited, India is balancing its interests both as an importer and an exporter of capital, goods and services. The deal will prevent a race to the bottom among countries,” Mr. Puri added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-may-need-to-rescind-digital-tax/article36923707.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Expecting 30-40% staff to work from rural areas’||Having successfully operated from a small town like Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu, software provider Zoho Corporation plans to replicate this model in the U.S. The aim is to locate offices in smaller towns Sridhar Vembu, co-founder and CEO, said in a telephonic interview. Excerpts:  Recently, Zoho announced its investment plan in a Bengaluru-based MRI tech start-up Voxelgrids. Why make an investment when you can acquire it? It is a completely different vertical and I do not have any special knowledge on how to run it. If I acquire it, I have to run it since it will be under my leadership. But it already has a leadership team. Arjun is really good. He is a scientist inventor and he has brought the product this far. So, it’s best that it is run independently and they continue to run it. Secondly, this is still work in progress in terms of some R&D. It’s crucial that we allow the team to continue as it is, rather than imposing any revenue requirement. These are reasons why it’s best not to set a target. How do you describe this investment? I would call it more like a strategic know-how investment. It is not really that way. Actually, here the company creates infrastructure and we are investing in them to help. We don’t want to control or run it. That’s all. Will it be an independent company or under the banner of Zoho? Yeah, it’s an independent company. Zoho will have a stake. It will be in our advisory capacity, but we won’t be dictating terms to them that’s all. Will you be a long-term investor in this company? We are planning to stick to this long haul. In fact, that is my request to the founders. That’s the basis on which we are coming in, because we want to fund the long term committed players in this. When do you expect the first product? It should be out in the next 12 months at least, could be next six months. But one reason I don’t specifically pin down timelines is, as I often talk about this on Twitter, when something very complex such as R&D is involved, you cannot really predict timelines. So, best to just be vague about it. What is the average ticket size of your investment in companies such as this? It’s not like we have too many investments. There are like four or five, but the total aggregate was about Rs. 250 crore investment in the last eight or 10 years. So I actually think it’s about Rs. 25-40 crore, in that range. Do you plan for more investments, or only as and when opportunity arises? As the opportunity arises... We are not actually actively scouting for investments like venture capitalists do. But if something that is suitable, that fits with our vision shows up, we will take a look. Going forward, how would you describe Zoho? What percentage of revenue will come from new businesses? Zoho itself remains a software company at its core. vTitan, Voxelgrids are all separate companies, which are doing their thing in their markets. The Zoho Corp mission itself remains very strongly focused on our software offerings. Right now it won’t be very significant. In the near future, say over 5-10 years, that will change. During the pandemic, Zoho opened small regional offices. What’s their status? We have about 20 in operation right now. All are open. In about three to four years, I would like at least 30-40% of our staff to work from rural areas, that’s the goal. And eventually longer term, at least 50% rural and 50% urban would be a good mix. What about your geographical expansion? Middle East has been doing very well. We are also expanding aggressively in the EU, we are opening offices in Germany and soon in France. Even in the U.S., we are moving away from major metros and setting up offices in smaller towns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expecting-30-40-staff-to-work-from-rural-areas/article36923705.ece
10 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||LIC-led insurers posted 22% rise in new premium in Sept.||Life insurers reported a 22.2% increase in first-year premium (FYP) to Rs. 31,001.17 crore in September, helped by market leader and IPO-bound LIC returning to growth after four months. While LIC posted a year-on-year increase in FYP for the second time this fiscal after a robust opening in April, for life insurers collectively it was the first two consecutive months of growth this year, coming on the back of reports of an impending increase in premium. For the six months ended September, the FYP of life insurers stood at Rs. 1,31,981.89 crore, a 5.82% increase from the Rs. 1,24,727.65 crore in the year-earlier period, according to the latest business statement released by IRDAI. An 11.55% increase in FYP last month to Rs. 18,520.21 crore helped LIC reduce the decline thus far this fiscal to 3.3% at Rs. 85,112.59 crore. Private players continued to maintain their momentum, reporting a 42.4% increase in FYP for September to Rs. 12,480.96 crore.  Private firms consolidate For the first half, the premium mobilised by private players was 27.7% higher at Rs. 46,869.30 crore. The market share of private players was 35.5%. Emkay Global Financial Services said the September performance pointed to a long-term trend of a gradual shift of the retail life insurance market toward large private players having a strong brand. Overall, the trend of market share consolidation toward bigger private life insurers continued to play out last month, it added in a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-led-insurers-posted-22-rise-in-new-premium-in-sept/article36923702.ece
10 October 2021||Bengaluru,||‘E-com firms log $2.7 bn in first 4 days of festive sale’||E-commerce platforms, including social commerce and online groceries, garnered $2.7 billion in the first four days of festive season sales between October 2 and 5, according to RedSeer Consulting. The firm said the sector was on its track to achieve $4.8 billion gross merchandise value (GMV) for the whole of the current festive season. The first four days of the festive week in CY20 accounted for 63% of the overall sales of the season, while four days this year brought in 57% of sales. Smartphones contributed some 50% of GMV during the first four days, according to a mid-festive analysis done by RedSeer. “With the festive sales lasting longer than last year [9 days compared with 7 days], we see the customer demand being more spread out across the period than being concentrated in the first half of the festive week,” said Ujjwal Chaudhry, an associate partner at RedSeer. “To that tune, we observed sales of $2.7 bn across e-commerce platforms and we expect another $2.1 bn over the next five days,” he added. About 75% of customers would make purchases equivalent to or more than that of last year, while many sellers would offer ~10-30% discounts on platforms, with the goal of releasing higher volume sales, the firm added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-com-firms-log-27-bn-in-first-4-days-of-festive-sale/article36923703.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Balanced Capitals, crafty Super Kings eye shortest route to final||Chennai Super Kings will take on Delhi Capitals in Dubai in Qualifier 1 of IPL 2021 on Sunday. DC got the better of CSK in both of their meetings during the league stage. The winner of this match will directly qualify for the final. The loser meets the winner of the Eliminator between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders. Three straight losses CSK comes into the match on the back of three successive losses, the last one a crushing defeat against Punjab Kings at the same venue. That loss showed that CSK bowlers struggle in flat conditions. However, they would hope to be better informed about what to do when batters attack them. The top order has been one of the big reasons for CSK’s turnaround this year. Faf du Plessis and Ruturaj Gaikwad set the tone for their entire innings, and CSK would want more of the same. Ruturaj, in red-hot form otherwise, has been dismissed cheaply in the last two games. He hit a short ball from Anrich Nortje straight to mid-wicket the last time these two sides met. Ruturaj can expect another severe examination from the DC quicks. Against Punjab, M.S. Dhoni threatened to break free before being bamboozled by a Ravi Bishnoi wrong ’un. Dhoni should consider sending the in-form Ravindra Jadeja ahead of him, regardless of the situation. DC, on the other hand, needs to work on its fielding. Glenn Maxwell was dropped twice in the same over which dented DC's chances against RCB in the last match. Costly Kagiso Rabada's form at the death this season is a concern as well. He has gone at 10.84 runs per over in the death overs and picked up just four wickets. DC skipper Rishabh Pant also needs to come up with a way of utilising R. Ashwin better. Against RCB, a team with a clutch of right-hand batters, Ashwin bowled just one over. CSK is likely to have a similar make-up should Robin Uthappa play ahead of Suresh Raina. But it will still have two left-handers in the playing XI — Moeen Ali at the top and Ravindra Jadeja in the lower middle-order. DC needs to get more out of its premier off-spinner. How Ashwin is used could have a bearing on the outcome of the match.  DC got the better of CSK in both the league games Dhoni should consider sending the in-form Jadeja ahead of him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balanced-capitals-crafty-super-kings-eye-shortest-route-to-final/article36923639.ece
10 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Rahil returns with a thumping victory||Hyderabad’s Rahil Shetty (Gusto Racing) and local ace K.Y. Ahamed (TVS Racing) scored victories in the two premier Prostock categories in the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship 2021 third round on Saturday. Rahil marked his comeback after a season’s absence with a superb win in the Prostock 301-400cc category ahead of Rajini Krishnan (RACR Castrol Power Racing), the leader in this category, and TVS Racing’s Deepak Ravikumar.   The results (provisional, six laps unless mentioned):   Na tional Championship: Prostock 301-400cc Open (Race-1): 1. Rahil Shetty (Gusto Racing, Hyderabad) 11mins, 18.000secs, 2. Rajini Krishnan (RACR Castrol Power Racing, Chennai) 11:18.246, 3. Deepak Ravikumar (TVS Racing) 11:18.340. Prostock 165cc Open (Race-1): 1. K.Y. Ahmed (TVS Racing, Chennai) 11:44.563, 2. Deepak Ravikumar 11:44.697, 3. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) 11:45.057.   Novice (Stock 165cc) Race-1: 1. Anfal Akdhar (Rockstar Racing, Thrissur) 13:03.524, 2. Allwin Xavier (Sparks Racing, Thrissur) 13:03.577, 3. Sarvesh Balappa (Sparks Racing, Hubballi) 13:07.658.   One-Make Championship (organised by MMSC): Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup–NSF 250R (Race-1): 1. Sarthak Chavan (Pune) 11:10.598, 2. Kevin Quintal (Chennai) 11:10.751, 3. Mohsin Peramban (Malappuram) 11:12.621. Honda Novice (CBR 150): 1. Ikshan Shanbhag (Satara) 13:10.362, 2. Prakash Kamat (Bokaro) 13:10.401, 3. Theopaul Leander (Chennai) 13:19.412. Honda Hornet 2.0 (Race-1): 1. Kevin Kannan (Chennai) 13:24.412, 2. Alwin Sundar (Chennai) 13:25.148, 3. Ullas Santrupt Nanda (Chennai) 13:25.661. TVS Rookie (Apache RTR 200) Race-1: 1. Shreyas Hareesh (Bng) 12:50.036, 2. Vignesh Goud (Hyderabad) 12:50.143, 3. Jinendra Kiran Sangave (Kolhapur) 12:50.220.   TVS Girls (Apache RTR 20 0, Five laps): 1. Rakshita Dave (Chennai) 11:21.032, 2. Adlin Seles (Chennai) 11:21.720, 3. Aditi Krishnan (Bng) 11:22.140.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahil-returns-in-style/article36923715.ece
10 October 2021||MILAN,||Rejuvenated France locks horns with youthful Spain||France has got its groove back as it prepares for the Nations League final against Spain on the back of a thrilling comeback win over Belgium which helped ease the pain of a poor Euro 2020. The Nations League might not be anywhere near as important as the World Cup or Euro, but the wild celebrations among the players and a small group of France fans at the Allianz Stadium showed just how good it felt to play like a World champion again. Asked where the win ranked on the list of his triumphs as France coach, Didier Deschamps said it was “one of the best”. “We had one of the best, if not the best, teams in the world in front of us” France now heads to Milan with a spring in its step, confident that it can see off a Spanish side which stopped Italy’s record run of matches without defeat at 37 with a 2-1 win on Wednesday. ‘Still one of the best’ “So we don’t win all our matches, we don’t win 3-, 4- or 5-0 all the time, but how many competitive matches do we win?” asked Deschamps. “Ok, we were knocked out of the Euro by the Swiss, but the French national team is still here and we’re still one of the best teams around.” Roberto Martinez said after a painful defeat for Belgium that his star-studded team couldn’t handle the weight of expectation that accompanies its matches. However, France will face an opposition with a much more carefree disposition on Sunday. The manner with which a Spanish side containing the youthful likes of 17-year-old Gavi swaggered around the San Siro at times on Wednesday suggested that Spain has genuine hope of success not just for the future, but also right now. Barcelona midfielder Gavi, the team’s youngest-ever player, stunned everyone; Yeremi Pino was also impressive when he replaced two-goal hero Ferran Torres early on in the second half, making his international debut less than two weeks from his 19th birthday. Meanwhile, France’s Adrien Rabiot will miss the final after testing positive for COVID-19, the French Football Federation (FFF) announced on Saturday. The FFF added that every other player returned a negative result on Saturday morning following tests on Friday afternoon ahead of the team’s departure from Turin. UEFA rules for the Nations League Final Four say that matches will be played as long as the teams have 13 players, including at least one goalkeeper, available. France coach Didier Deschamps currently has 21 players from which he can pick his team for the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rejuvenated-france-locks-horns-with-youthful-spain/article36923522.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Want to win the trophy for Kohli: Bharat||After guiding Royal Challengers Bangalore to a thrilling last-ball victory over Delhi Capitals on Friday, K.S. Bharat said he and his teammates were highly motivated to win the trophy and ensure Virat Kohli ends his tenure as RCB skipper on a high. Cherry on the cake “Definitely, winning the cup [will be great] and giving Virat bhai that title will be a cherry on the cake,” Bharat said on Saturday. “But just playing with him is a very big thing. He loves youngsters and rubbing shoulders with him teaches you a lot of discipline. A machine “He works like a machine in the gym, he’s a thorough professional. If he still does it after achieving so much, we are just walking in [to the team] and it’s great motivation.” In a side that also has AB de Villiers and Glenn Maxwell, there are learning opportunities galore. “I am a keen observer of people who do good things and learn from them. So, I wouldn’t be going up to them and asking stuff. I have watched all their routines, their intent in doing things and learnt.” At RCB, there is no pressure to play second fiddle to the superstars during a match, Bharat said. Mini partnerships “There’s nothing like I have to create a platform for them. We, as a team, aim to get those mini partnerships going. It can be AB, or myself, or Virat bhai . We all are prepared to win the game [for our team] and we walk in with that purpose.” Against DC, Bharat got his first half-century of the campaign, but the 28-year-old said he was not looking for personal glory. “These numbers don’t matter as long as you are doing well [for the team].  “In fact, numbers can be limiting sometimes. I understood that over a period of time after playing a lot of domestic cricket. You have to be selfless to succeed at this level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-win-the-trophy-for-kohli-bharat/article36923641.ece
10 October 2021||LIMA,||India clinches three more gold medals||The team of Adarsh Singh, Vijayveer Sidhu, and Anish Bhanwala won the 25-metre rapid fire pistol team gold, beating Germany 10-2, in the junior World Championships here. With only four teams in the race, India was dominant in the two stages of qualification. Losing out Ayushi Podder and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar were strong in the two stages of qualification in the mixed team 50-metre rifle 3-position event, but lost the gold to Germany 17-31. India swept the medals in both the double trap events as the competition had only seven Indians in all. The ISSF categorised it as a Grand Prix, but put the medals in the overall table to boost India’s collection to 13 gold, 11 silver and six bronze. USA stayed in the second spot with six gold, eight silver and six bronze.  The results: Men: 25m rapid fire pistol team: 1. India (Adarsh Singh, Vijayveer Sidhu, Anish Bhanwala) 10 (556) 866, 2. Germany 2 (549) 846, 3. Thailand 9 (532) 803.   Double trap: 1. Vinay Pratap Singh 120, 2. Sehajpreet Singh 114, 3. Mayank Shokeen 111.   Women: Double trap: 1. Manvi Soni 105, 2. Yeshaya Hafiz Contractor 90, 3. Hitasha 76.   Mixed team 50m rifle 3-position: 1. Germany 31 (586) 875, 2. India (Ayushi Podder, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar) 17 (590) 880, 3. Czech Republic 33 (586) 873 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-clinches-three-more-gold-medals/article36923646.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Daksh eases to under-16 boys’ title||Top seed Daksh Prasad cruised to a 6-3, 6-2 victory over second seed Rushil Khosla in the under-16 boys’ final of the National sub-junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Saturday. With both the boys training at the RoundGlass Academy in Chandigarh and coached by Aditya Sachdeva, there was understandable familiarity about each other’s game. The left-handed Rushil was brilliant and erratic in equal measure as he failed to put up a meaningful challenge. Daksh on the other hand stayed calm and maintained a steady game to crown himself the champion. Much in contrast, Suhitha Maruri had to sweat it out in three sets and endure a lot of suspense in the decider to beat the free-stroking Sonal Patil for the girls’ under-16 title. It was a double crown for Suhitha as she had won the doubles title with Ruma Gaikaiwari. In under-14 Rayan Sajjid was quite mature and a notch above the rest, but had to be at his best to get past Venkat Batlanki, who had played the semifinals earlier in the morning. Sajjid prevailed 6-2, 5-7, 7-5. Mahima Khanna subdued a fighting Harithashree Venkatesh for the loss of six games to clinch the girls’ under-14 title. Balram Singh, member National selection committee, presented the prizes.  The results (finals): Under-16: Boys: Daksh Prasad bt Rushil Khosla 6-3, 6-2. Doubles: Jaishnav Shinde & Tanishq Jadhav bt Daksh & Rushil Khosla 6-4, 2-6, [10-1].   Girls: Suhitha Maruri bt Sonal Patil 6-3, 2-6, 6-4. Doubles: Ruma Gaikaiwari & Suhitha bt Abhaya Vemuri & Apurva Vemuri 6-1, 6-0.   Under-14: Boys: Rayan Sajjid bt Venkat Batlanki 6-2, 5-7, 7-5. Doubles: Dhruv Sachdeva & Pratyaksh bt Rethin Pranav & Samprit Sharma 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: Mahika Khanna bt Harithashree Venkatesh 6-3, 6-3. Doubles: Aakruti Sonkusare & Shatakshi Chaudhary bt Harithashree & Manongnya Madasu 2-6, 6-4, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daksh-eases-to-under-16-boys-title/article36923872.ece
10 October 2021||Hyderabad:,||King Roger tipped for Artillery Trophy||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s ward King Roger, who ran second in his last start, should make amends in the Artillery Trophy, the main event of Sunday’s (Oct. 10) races.  TWIN CITIES PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.00 p.m.: 1. Akash (8) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Briar Ridge (11) Kiran Naidu 56, 3. Divine Chakram (10) Aneel 56, 4. Indian Glory (4) Akshay Kumar 56, 5. Tales Of A Legend (3) Md. Ismail 56, 6. Ashwa Pushkin (2) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Despang (9) P. Trevor 54.5, 8. Inception (6) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 9. Most Loveable (1) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 10. Ostentatious (7) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 11. Southern Act (5) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. DESPANG, 2. INDIAN GLORY,   3. ASHWA PUSHKIN   TWIN CITIES PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30: 1. Be Crimson (2) Md. Ismail 56, 2. Cash Register (10) P. Trevor 56, 3. City Of Blessing (7) Mukesh Kumar 56, 4. Magic Mark (1) B. Nikhil 56, 5. Unsung Hero (8) Aneel 56, 6. Ahanu (5) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 7. Cabello (9) G. Naresh 54.5, 8. Exotic Dancer (4) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 9. Kachnar (3) Abhay Singh 54.5 and 10. Serendip (6) Santosh Raj 54.5.  1. CASH REGISTER, 2. CITY OF BLESSING, 3. SERENDIP   TWIN CITIES PLATE (Div. III) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II). 2.05: 1. Blue Origin (5) Akshay Kumar 56, 2. First In Line (4) Khurshad Alam 56, 3. I Am Superman (1) Rafique Sk. 56, 4. Sea Of Class (9) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Challenger (7) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 6. Flower (8) Md. Ismail 54.5, 7. Precious Gift (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 8. Princess Daniale (2) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 9. Racing Rani (3) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 10. Silk (10) B. Nikhil 54.5.  1. BLUE ORIGIN, 2. SEA OF CLASS, 3. PRECIOUS GIFT   RAJA SAHEB OF CHALLAPALLI MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Blink Of An Eye (5) Afroz Khan 60, 2. City Of Blossom (6) Gaurav Singh 60, 3. Burano (3) Ashad Asbar 58.5, 4. Keystone (2) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Rising Queen (7) Abhay Singh 54.5, 6. Aibak (11) Aneel 53.5, 7. Stud Poker (10) P. Sai Kumar 53, 8. Furious Fun (8) G. Naresh 52, 9. California Beauty (12) B.R. Kumar 51.5, 10. Classy Dame (9) R.S. Jodha 51.5, 11. Hashtag (1) Khurshad Alam 51.5 and 12. Thunder Road (4) B. Nikhil 50.  1. KEYSTONE,   2. BLINK OF AN EYE, 3. BURANO   ARTILLERY TROPHY (2,000m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Ashwa Raudee (6) C.S. Jodha 62, 2. King Roger (2) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. November Rain (7) S.S. Tanwar 60, 4. Moringa (8) Surya Prakash 58.5, 5. Forever Bond (4) P. Trevor 54.5, 6. Royal Pal (5) Aneel 54, 7. Prime Gardenia (1) Koushik 53.5, 8. Dream Jewel (—) and 9. Garden Of Eden (3) Abhay Singh 51.  1. KING ROGER, 2. FOREVER BOND, 3. ASHWA RAUDEE   P.V.G. RAJU MEMORIAL CUP (Div. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. Berkeley (1) Kuldeep Singh 62, 2. Rhine (10) B.R. Kumar 62, 3. Epsom (13) N.B. Kuldeep 61.5, 4. Air Salute (3) Afroz Khan 61, 5. Sea Wolf (9) Ajit Singh 60.5, 6. Winning Player (6) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 7. Shelly Anne (7) Santosh Raj 59, 8. Queen Blossom (11) P. Sai Kumar 58.5, 9. Paree (5) Rafique Sk. 58, 10. Ice Berry (4) C.P. Bopanna 57, 11. Theo’s Choice (8) Abhay Singh 56, 12. Proud Legacy (2) Mukesh Kumar 54 and 13. Turf Monarch (12) Surya Prakash 52.5.  1. WINNING PLAYER,   2. RHINE, 3. ICE BERRY   NAWAB SULTAN ALI KHAN MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.25: 1. Four One Four (1) Deepak Singh 61, 2. Red Snaper (13) Kiran Naidu 61, 3. N R I Heights (12) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 4. Star Racer (4) Mukesh Kumar 59, 5. Nearest (10) B.R. Kumar 57, 6. Curcumin (5) Aneel 56.5, 7. Blazing Jupiter (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 8. Gazebo (3) C.P. Bopanna 56, 9. Miss Marvellous (11) Afroz Khan 55.5, 10. Soul Empress (14) R. Ajinkya 55.5, 11. Explosive (2) Kuldeep Singh 55, 12. Sacred Lamp (16) Gaurav Singh 54, 13. Sheldon (9) P. Trevor 53, 14. Dillon (15) B. Nikhil 52, 15. Solo Winner (8) Nakhat Singh 51.5 and 16. Crackershow (7) Surya Prakash 50.  1. N R I HEIGHTS, 2. SHELDON,   3. FOUR ONE FOUR   P.V.G. RAJU MEMORIAL CUP (Div. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Golden Forza (9) Abhay Singh 62, 2. Sun Dancer (3) Akshay Kumar 62, 3. Gurbaaz (12) N.B. Kuldeep 61.5, 4. Fantastic Show (2) R. Ajinkya 60.5, 5. Good Tidings (10) Md. Ismail 59.5, 6. Starwalker (13) G. Naresh 59.5, 7. Royal Girl (5) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 8. Team Player (7) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 9. Fleur (1) B. Nikhil 58, 10. N R I Gift (8) Mukesh Kumar 58, 11. New Hustle (11) Ajit Singh 56, 12. Lightning Pearl (4) Khurshad Alam 53.5 and 13. Royal Avenger (6) Afroz Khan 50.  1. SUN DANCER,   2. GOLDEN FORZA, 3. N R I GIFT  Day’s best: KEYSTONE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/king-roger-tipped-for-artillery-trophy/article36923708.ece
10 October 2021||Gold Coast,||McGrath takes Australia past the finish line||The Indian bowlers put up a valiant effort with very few runs to defend before Tahlia McGrath won the battle of nerves at the death, guiding Australia to a four-wicket victory in the second T20I and helping it clinch the multi-format series 9-5. Inept batting Asked to bat, India put up an inept performance and could muster only 118 for nine. Pooja Vastrakar’s 37 off 26 balls was the highlight of the innings. Australia reached the target in 19.1 overs, courtesy McGrath (42 n.o., 33b, 6x4), who launched into Shikha Pandey’s 18th over, picking up 14 runs. After Shikha breached Alyssa Healy’s defence with a beauty that jagged back a long way, Rajeshwari Gayakwad got rid of Meg Lanning (15). Ashleigh Gardener (1) hit a long hop from Harmanpreet straight to point fielder Rajeshwari. Deepti Sharma got the dangerous Ellyse Perry (1) as Harmanpreet timed her jump to perfection at cover, leaving Australia tottering at 46 for four. Beth Mooney (34 off 36 balls) was cautious for the better part of her innings as McGrath started smashing the bowlers. Both were dropped by wicketkeeper Richa Ghosh in the same over, McGrath’s catch proving costly. Once Mooney was stumped off Rajeshwari and Nicola Carey was also stumped off a rebound off Richa Ghosh’s body, Australia slipped to 94 for six before McGrath stepped up to the plate. Earlier, Pooja’s fine exhibition of power-hitting (37 n.o., 27b, 3x4, 2x6) took India past the hundred mark after it was reeling at 81 for nine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcgrath-takes-australia-past-the-finish-line/article36923650.ece
10 October 2021||Abu Dhabi,||‘Hardik to bowl from next week’||India vice-captain and Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma expects Hardik Pandya to start bowling from “next week” even though he won’t like to put a timeline on the subject. “In terms of his (Hardik) bowling, the physios, trainers are working. He hasn’t bowled a single ball yet. We wanted to take one match at a time and see where he stands,” Rohit said after MI’s last IPL game. “He is getting better day by day. In the next week or so, he might be able to bowl, who knows? Only the doctors and physios will be able to give an update on that.” Hardik also disappointed with the bat, scoring just 127 runs at 14.11 and a strike rate of 113.39. “As far as his batting is concerned, yes, he will be a little disappointed but he is a quality player. He has come back from tough situations before as well,” Rohit said. “Personally for him, he will not be happy with his batting but the team has confidence in his ability. I personally have confidence in his ability. “He is getting better and a player like him is probably just one game away from getting his natural ability back and we have seen it in the past. If I have to put everything together, there is no doubt he will be a valuable asset.” Rohit isn’t too worried about the form of the India players in the Mumbai Indians squad as the T20 World Cup will be a “different ball game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardik-to-bowl-from-next-week/article36923648.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai:,||Logu stars for Mambalam Mosquitos||Mambalam Mosquitos’ B. Logu (five for 21) and P. Gokulkrishnamoorthy (four for six) bundled out Tiger CC for 29 in a D-zone match of the TNCA fourth division league recently. Mambalam Mosquitos reached the target in the eighth over.  The scores: IV-C: Prithvi 128 in 40.1 overs (R. Yashwanth 37, M. Vinoth Kannan 4/39) lost to Youngsters 131/7 in 42.5 overs (S. Prasanth 51, M.D. Bhaskar 3/36); Garnet 199/8 in 50 overs (Akshay Rajendra Sarangdhar 79, A. Joval Calix 50) drew with BRC 172/6 in 41 overs (M. Santhosh Gopi 62, R. Sunil Kumar 3/50). (Match drawn due to rain).   YMA 246/8 in 50 overs (K. Ashok Kumar 73, R. Sukumar 52, A. Santhosh Kumar 33 n.o., S. Shyam Sundar 3/53) bt Bharathi SC 164/9 in 50 overs (K. Akshai 36 n.o., R. Sukumar 4/45).   YMA 159/9 in 50 overs (N.C. Venkatesh 52, A. Dhandapani 41, M. Gowtham 4/40) lost to Venkateswara 161/4 in 39.1 overs (K. Abhinav 58 n.o., M. Prasan Kumar 37 n.o.).   GE T&D India 126 in 44.1 overs (T. Senthamarai Kannan 40, M.A. Stephen Raj 3/18, B. Ajay 4/30) lost to Book Sellers XI 129/6 in 37 overs (Nayef Ahmed 44).   IV-D: Perambur United 224/6 in 50 overs (L. Udhaya Kumar 46, N.G. Dinesh 87 n.o.) drew with SBI 192/9 in 47.2 overs (M. Prasanna 43, I. Prakash 51, S. Prakash 6/56). (Match drawn due to rain).   Royapettah 231/9 in 50 overs (S. Ajith Kumar 54, D. Mani 34, M. Naveen Kumar 47, K. Palanisamy 3/61, J. Ajay Dev 3/57) lost to Bharathi 232/5 in 47.5 overs (A.D. Siyam Vikas 53, K.T.A. Madhava Prasad 84 n.o., P. Logesh Kumar 40 n.o.).   Bharat Petroleum 290 in 40.5 overs (S. Senthamizh Selvan 108, V.K. Nivedhan 34, S. Sachin 72) drew with MRC-B 38/3 in 18 overs. (Match drawn due to rain); Vigneswara 228/8 in 50 overs (S. Shrenik 70, T. Ramesh Thangaraj 69, R. Dinesh 3/38, K. Gokula Krishnan 3/57) lost to Venkat 229/9 in 50 overs (Ra Nithish 41, B. Sreeram 47, Prateek Bokaria 36, S. Kumar 4/62).   Tiger CC 29 in 17.2 overs (B. Logu 5/21, P. Gokulkrishnamoorthy 4/6) lost to Mambalam Mosquitos 31/4 in 7.3 overs.  Cricket tournament GRCA will conduct an u-12 and 16 inter-academy tournament from Oct. 13. Call V.P. Giri Narain (90940 66288) for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/logu-stars-for-mambalam-mosquitos/article36923769.ece
10 October 2021||JAMSHEDPUR,||Dipti shocks Komalika, Parth beats Sukhchain||The unheralded Dipti Kumari stunned World junior champion Komalika Bari to claim her maiden recurve women’s individual title in the 40th NTPC National archery championships at the Tata Archery Academy ground here on Saturday. Dipti, who switched from Indian bow to recurve two years ago, beat Jharkhand Statemate Komalika 7-3 in the final. After losing the first set, Dipti, who was successful in two shoot-offs en route the final, shared honours in the second and won the next three (29-28, 29-28, 27-25). Komalika, also competing in her first National final, crumbled under pressure.  A World junior gold medallist in men’s team and mixed team events, Maharashtra archer Parth Salunkhe defeated a more experienced rival, Sukhchain Singh of Services, 7-3 for his first National gold medal in the men’s individual event.  The results:   Recurve:   Men: Individual: Final: Parth Salunkhe (Mah) bt Sukhchain Singh (SSCB) 7-3.   Third place: Amit Yadav (MP) bt Kapil (RSPB) 6-5 (9*-9).   Women: Individual: Final: Dipti Kumari (Jha) bt Komalika Bari (Jha) 7-3; Third place: Simranjeet Kaur (Pun) bt Ishita (AIP) 7-3.   Mixed Team: Final: Jharkhand bt Uttar Pradesh 5-3; Third place: Rajasthan bt Punjab 5-4 (19-15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dipti-shocks-komalika-parth-beats-sukhchain/article36923636.ece
10 October 2021||SAO PAULO,||Brazil looks to make it 10/10 with Neymar’s return||Brazil has won all nine matches in World Cup qualifying so far and could well make it 10 on Sunday at Colombia. The Brazilians lead the 10-team South American round-robin competition by eight points. But one year before kickoff in Qatar, there are some longtime fans of the Selecao who aren’t happy with the team after Thursday’s lacklustre 3-1 win at Venezuela. And their concerns will be on coach Tite’s mind in Sunday’s match. Argentina, which has recently struggled to get close to a qualifying spot along with Brazil, is comfortably in second place, eyeing even better days ahead due to renewed confidence since winning the latest Copa America title. A home win against rival Uruguay could put Lionel Messi’s team even closer to qualifying directly for Qatar. Brazil leads with 27 points and Argentina has 19 in nine matches — their clash in September was suspended after seven minutes due to COVID-19 protocols. Ecuador and Uruguay have 16 points after 10 matches, but the Ecuadorians have more wins and hold third place. Colombia is fifth with 14 points. The top four teams secure a spot at next year’s World Cup in Qatar. The fifth-place team will enter a playoff against a team from another confederation. Neymar returns to Brazil after a suspension and he’s the only good news for the team after a below-par performance at Venezuela, which led the match until the 71st minute. Tite experimented at several positions against Venezuela, and most proved disappointing against a weak opposition. Left-back Guilherme Arana and midfielders Fabinho and Gerson did not play well and that gave analysts, former players and supporters the impression that Brazil lacks depth in its squad.  Also on Sunday, Ecuador will play at last-place Venezuela. Eighth-place Chile hosts sixth-place Paraguay and ninth-place Bolivia takes on seventh-place Peru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-looks-to-make-it-1010-with-neymars-return/article36923529.ece
10 October 2021||KOCHI,||Meerans-Scoreline bags KFA’s commercial rights for 12 years||This promises to open a new world for Kerala football, the birth of a new pro league in the State and also activate the sport in schools and colleges. The Kerala Football Association (KFA) has offered its commercial rights for 12 years to the Meerans Sports LLP and Scoreline Sports Pvt. Ltd. consortium which promises to change football forever in a State that is passionate about the sport but which lacks big money to implement the big plans. Huge investment With the new partnership, the consortium is confident that the Kerala football ecosystem will see a cumulative investment of close to Rs. 350 crore over the 12-year period. “We want to make football a celebration. People in Kerala are passionate about football but there is a lot of room for improvement. We want to get people out to the ground, want young kids to come out to the ground and play. That’s our goal,” said Feroz Meeran, Director, Meerans Sports and Group Meeran, at the KFA event to announce the new partnership. New pro league As per the agreement which comes into effect immediately, the new company has been given three years to start a new professional league but Sudhir Menon, CEO, Scorline Sports, said the first edition could start in early 2023. It is likely to be an eight-team affair. “This is the first of its kind in the whole country, it will definitely be a case study for all other States, not just for football development but for all sports,” said Sudhir. “There will be visible benefits on the ground for players, coaches, referees and aspiring sports professionals. “We also have plans to start inter-school and inter-collegiate tournaments.” The agreement has been discussed and approved by all the 13 active district associations, said KFA president Tom Jose. The other district, Thiruvananthapuram, has been troubled by internal disputes and is now suspended by the KFA. All the KFA’s existing tournaments, including Kerala Premier League, will continue, assured the State association’s general secretary P. Anilkumar. “The new pro league will create an opportunity for nearly 200 professional players and about 100 coaches. The winner of the new league will play the second division I-League,” said Anilkumar. “The company that has taken the commercial rights will give a guaranteed amount to the KFA, a little over Rs. 1 crore every year. This will allow the KFA to conduct the tournaments in a better manner and 15% of the new company’s profits will be given to the KFA every year.” K.M.I. Mather, honorary president of the State association, made it clear that control of the sport will remain with the KFA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meerans-scoreline-bags-kfas-commercial-rights-for-12-years/article36924120.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘Hard decisions have to be taken’||Indian Olympic Association president Narinder Batra on Friday backed Hockey India’s decision to pull out of next year’s Commonwealth Games to ensure greater focus on the Asiad, saying “hard decisions” have to be taken for bigger goals and it wasn’t feasible to even send a second-string team. Hockey India withdrew from the Games on Tuesday, saying that there was only a 32-day window available between the Birmingham Games (July 28-August 8) and the Hangzhou Asian Games (September 10-25). HI said it was unwilling to risk sending its players to the UK, which has been one of the worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic. Batra said it was the correct call, given that an Asiad gold would ensure direct qualification to the 2024 Paris Olympics. “You will peak at the CWG, come back home for 15 days for a break. “By the time you come back you have to go to China and you have not played for a month, then you want India to win,” said Batra, who is also President of the International Hockey Federation (FIH). Batra made the comments at a function organised by Maharashtra Olympics Association’s Secretary General Namdev Shirgaonkar and the Goa Olympics Association. “These are some hard decisions that you have to take. I will be blamed and become unpopular among players because a gold medal (at CWG) can fetch you Rs. 50 lakh. (But) I have to take a call on what is more important and that is qualifying for the Olympics,” he explained. “If you want to send a B team, there is no B team right now with us. You cannot send players with poor fitness,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hard-decisions-have-to-be-taken/article36923526.ece
10 October 2021||Paris,||Messi, Ronaldo in contention||Six-time winner Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, a five-time victor, were among the 30 names revealed on Friday for the Ballon d’Or award. The serial favourites face competition that includes Kylian Mbappe, Neymar, Karim Benzema, Jorginho and N’Golo Kante who are also considered as leading runners in the list unveiled by France Football magazine. There are also 20 women in the running for their own prize to be announced in Paris on November 29. French champions PSG can boast Messi, a winner in the Copa America this summer, and teammates Mbappe and Neymar who last season took the ambitious club to the Champions League last-four. Italian midfielder Jorginho gets the nod after helping Chelsea to the Champions League title as well as playing a major role as Italy won the delayed Euro 2000. Chelsea teammate Kante, man of the match in the Champions League semi-final and final, is also on the list.  Also in the running are Bayern Munich’s Robert Lewandowski, the top scorer in Europe with 41 goals, as well as Dortmund’s Erling Braut Haaland, the Champions League’s best scorer with 10 goals. Among the women, 2019 winner Megan Rapinoe, whose United States team was knocked out of the Olympics in the quarterfinals, was missing from the nominations. Christine Sinclair, of Olympic gold medal winning Canada, is in the running. Champions League winner Barcelona is represented by Alexia Putellas, already voted UEFA’s best player, and Jennifer Hermoso, joint top-scorer in the Champions League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-ronaldo-in-contention/article36923531.ece
10 October 2021||Chennai,||Kaushik Gandhi to replace Washington||The State Selection Committee of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association has named M. Kaushik Gandhi as a replacement for M.S. Washington Sundar, for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy 2021-22. Washington Sundar suffered a finger injury that has already forced him to miss the IPL and the World T20. Out for six weeks It is understood he will be out of action for another six weeks and won’t be available for the domestic T20 competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaushik-gandhi-to-replace-washington/article36923773.ece
10 October 2021||Indian Wells,||Bopanna & Shapovalov in second round||Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov of Canada beat Felix Auger-Aliassime and Hubert Hurkacz 6-1, 2-6, [10-4] in the doubles first round of the Indian Wells Masters here. Bopanna and Shapovalov may run into sixth seeds Jamie Murray and Bruno Soares in the next round. In the ITF men’s event in Tunisia, Niki Poonacha won the doubles title with Grigoriy Lomakin of Kazakhstan.  The results: Indian Wells Masters: First round: Denis Shapovalov (Can) & Rohan Bopanna bt Felix Auger-Aliassime (Can) & Hubert Hurkacz (Pol) 6-1, 2-6, [10-4].   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Final: Grigoriy Lomakin (Kaz) & Niki Poonacha bt Anis Ghorbel (Tun) & Mirko Martinez (Sui) 6-1, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF men, Cancun: Quarterfinals: Seita Watanabe (Jpn) & Siddhant Banthia bt Giles Hussey & Adam Jones (GBr) 7-6(4), 4-6, [10-5].   $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Final: Julian Cash (GBr) & Christian Sigsgaard (Den) bt Patrik Niklas-Salminen (Fin) & Saketh Myneni 6-4, 6-4; Semifinals: Patrik Niklas-Salminen & Saketh Myneni bt Li Hanwen (Chn) & Beibit Zhukayev (Kaz) 7-6(0), 6-0.   $25,000 ITF women, Redding, USA: Quarterfinals: Katie Swan (GBR) bt Pranjala Yadlapalli 6-4, 7-6(4).   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh: Final: Bai Zhouxuan (Chn) & Punnin Kovapitukted (Tha) bt Rebeka Stolmar (Hun) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-shapovalov-in-second-round/article36923716.ece
10 October 2021||Paris,||Battling wins for the Dutch & Germans||Germany needed a late winner from Thomas Muller to beat Romania 2-1 while the Netherlands eked out a 1-0 win in Latvia to stay on course for the World Cup finals on Friday. In Group E, Aaron Ramsey and Daniel James inspired Wales to a 2-2 draw with the Czech Republic in Prague. Both teams have eight points in the fight for the second spot in Group E, trailing runaway leader Belgium with 16, but Wales has a game in hand.  The results: Group E: Estonia 2 (Sorga 58, Zenjov 90+3) bt Belarus 0; Czech Republic 2 (Pesek 38, Ward 48-og) drew with Wales 2 (Ramsey 36, James 69).   Group G: Gibraltar 0 lost to Montenegro 3 (Marusic 7, Beciraj 44-pen, 68); Latvia 0 lost to the Netherlands 1 (Klaasen 19); Turkey 1 (Akturkoglu 6) drew with Norway 1 (Thorstvedt 41).   Group H: Cyprus 0 lost to Croatia 3 (Perisic 45+2, Gvardiol 80, Livaja 90+2); Malta 0 lost to Slovenia 4 (Ilicic 27, 60, Sporar 50, Sesko 67); Russia 1 (Skriniar 24-og) bt Slovakia 0.   Group J: Germany 2 (Gnabry 52, Muller 81) bt Romania 1 (Hagi 9); Iceland 1 (Johanesson 77) drew with Armenia 1 (Hovhannisyan 35); Liechtenstein 0 lost to North Macedonia 4 (Velkovski 39, Alioski 66-pen, Nikolov 74, Churlinov 83) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/battling-wins-for-the-dutch-germans/article36923777.ece
10 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Want to play in Paris Olympics: Sreejesh||Indian hockey goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh wants to play in the Paris Olympics but said on Saturday that a lot will depend on his fitness and performance in the run-up to the 2024 Games. Asked if he would be taking part at the Paris Olympics, Sreejesh said: “No player will say no to an Olympics. The motivation will always be to work hard and give our best. I have had a career of 21 years. One more match “I will always want to play one more match, one more Olympics. As long as my team members don’t kick me out, I will stay for sure.” During the India Today conclave, Sreejesh added: “Nothing is certain in a sportsperson’s life. There can be an injury, performance can go down, others can do better than me.” Sreejesh’s former teammates Rupinder Pal Singh, Birendra Lakra and S.V. Sunil retired recently following a successful Olympics campaign. When India skipper Manpreet Singh was posed the same question, he said: “He is going to Paris from our side. Sreejesh is the best goalkeeper, so we would want him to be there. We have confidence in him but the rest depends on his fitness and other things.” Sreejesh is confident that both the Indian men’s and women’s teams will make the podium at the 2024 Games, but said the road ahead will be tougher. “The motivation will always be there to change the colour of the medal in Paris. But the road is not easy. We won a medal 41 years ago and after that Indians sent us to Olympics with a lot of expectations. “Now that we have proved we can win, the expectations will be higher when we go to Paris. But it won’t be easy, it doesn’t happen overnight. Sreejesh pulled off a stunning save in the final few seconds of the bronze medal match against Germany at Tokyo. Recollecting those six seconds, he said: “When we got that PC, our reaction was like what will happen now, it can slip away, but there was not much time to think. We had to defend. I was planning my defensive structure. “As a goalkeeper I had my own things, to focus and I was just thinking that I have been playing for so many years, so I just have to save this one.” Turning point The women’s skipper Rani said the disappointing campaign at the 2016 Rio Games was the turning point. “For us, 2016 was the first Olympics, we didn’t win any match and I think it was the turning point because we learnt how to handle pressure in such big event and this was a different Olympics because we lost first three matches but still had the self-belief,” she said.  The motivation will always be there to change the colour of the medal in Paris||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-play-in-paris-olympics-hockey-keeper-sreejesh/article36923524.ece
10 October 2021||CAPE TOWN,||Mahrez stars for Algeria||Riyad Mahrez scored twice as African champion Algeria romped to a 6-1 win over Niger to return to winning ways in World Cup Qualifying football. Egypt took the top spot in its group from Libya by winning 1-0. Ivory Coast claimed the other most significant result of the day as Max-Alain Gradel thumped in a volley to give the team a 3-0 victory in Malawi. Manchester City’s Mahrez opened the scoring for Algeria in the 27th minute in Blida but the other five Algerian goals came in the second-half, including Mahrez’s second from the penalty spot. Islam Slimani also scored a late brace as the Algerians rebounded from a draw in their last qualifier in Burkina Faso. Salah started for Eypt but it was Omar Marmoush’s goal just after half time that gave Egypt three points. Cameroon is in a tussle with Ivory Coast to progress from group D and is a point behind after Bayern Munich’s Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting scored two headers in a 3-1 win over Mozambique.  The results: Group A: Algeria 6 (Mahrez 27, 60-pen, Feghouli 47, Souleymane 70-og, Slimani 76, 88) bt Niger 1 (Sosah 50); Djibouti 0 lost to Burkina Faso 4 (Tapsoba 45+1, 48, Kabore 50, Konate 59).   Group D: Cameroon 3 (Choupo-Moting 28, 51, Toko Ekambi 63) bt Mozambique 1 (Catamo 80); Malawi 0 lost to Ivory Coast 3 (Gradel 35, Sangare 85, Boga 90+5).   Group F: Egypt 1 (Marmoush 49) bt Libya 0; Angola 3 (Zini 25, Papel 56, Buatu 90+1) bt Gabon 1 (Meye 83).   Djibouti and Malawi staged home fixtures at neutral venue because their stadiums do not meet international standards .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahrez-stars-in-algeria-win/article36923528.ece
10 October 2021||Paris,||Grateful to PSG: Messi||Argentine striker Lionel Messi has said he has no regrets about joining PSG. Messi had linked up with PSG in August having spent his entire career with Barcelona at club level. “Barca issued the statement saying that I was not going to continue and from that point on I started to wonder how I was going to bounce back. I had to find a new club to continue my career. I was lucky to be contacted by several clubs including PSG. I am grateful to the club because from the start they treated me very well,” Messi told France Football , as reported by Goal.com . “They showed they really wanted me and took care of me. I thank them because I am very happy today. I received other offers, but ... we came to an agreement with PSG quite quickly. I was obviously won over by the project.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grateful-to-psg-messi/article36923532.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Uphill climb||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uphill-climb/article36924161.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Young Talents is champion||Young Talents beat CCA by 65 runs in the final of the XL1 Supersports u-14 cricket tournament held here.  The scores (final): Young Talent CA 180/7 in 30 overs (V K. Vineeth 37, Josh Shane Francis 42, Kamesh 30, Benny Hinn 45, Shravan 4/30) bt CCA 115/8 in 30 overs (Ashwath Raghavan 31, Sai Rakshith 30) .    Huddle won the SMCA Champions Trophy cricket tournament held here. Since Huddle and SportOn Venture were tied in the end, the side that had lost lesser number of wickets was adjudged the champion.  The scores (final): SportOn Venture 183 in 26.3 overs (Rajesh 38, Muralidharan 29, Lokesh 42, Murali 3/27) lost to Huddle 183/7 in 30 overs (Vignesh 61, Sanjeevan three for 32).    A. Ealumalai's unbeaten 107 powered Prajith CC to a 64-run win over The Cricketers Club in the CDCA second division league recently.  The scores: II div.: Sumangali 218/8 in 30 overs (K. Hari Krishnan 42, S. Raja Ravi Varma 64, V. Kriba Nithyanand 41, B. Arun Deepak 3/37, K. Sunil Prabhu 3/42) bt Medavakkam 158 in 29.3 overs (Jemoh Roshan 41, M. Mohammed Munna 43, S. Sugit Srivatsan 4/32).   Prajith 226/6 in 30 overs (A. Ealumalai 107 n.o., R. Raja Babu 38) bt The Cricketers Club 162/5 in 30 overs (S.Srivatsan 60 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/young-talents-is-champion/article36923772.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Soha Sadiq triumphs||Top seed Soha Sadiq came from a set down to defeat Akanksha Nitture 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 to win the title at the PBI-CSE AITA women’s tennis tournament. The victory came a day after Soha had clinched the doubles title in the company of Akanksha.   B. Bhaskar and Vidya Pillai clinched the men’s and women’s crowns at the State-ranking 6-Red snooker tournament on Saturday.  The results (finals):   Men: B. Bhaskar bt K.S. Naveen 6-2 (42-12, 22-36, 42-17, 13-40, 32-21, 61(61)-08, 57-0, 39-28); Women: Vidya Pillai bt M. Chitra 4-3 (46-32, 58-0, 42(42)-27, 22-45, 30-39, 08-43, 30-11).   Final rankings: Men: 1. B. Bhaskar, 2. K.S. Naveen, 3. Sean Davis, 4. Francis Joe; Women: 1. Vidya Pillai, 2. M. Chitra, 3. P. Keerthana, 4. Varshaa Sanjeev .    Amogha Udupa’s four-wicket haul (4/18) was the highlight of Chintamani SA’s seven-wicket win over Bangalore Occasionals in the KSCA (Group I) under-16 inter-club tournament.  The scores:   BUCC (1) 121 in 31.5 overs (Tanish R. Shah 30, Pranav Abhijit Bhattad 3/23) lost to Sir Syed Cricketers 122/3 in 23.4 overs (Drishya Pandey 54 n.o., Tanav Prasad 26).   Century Cricketers 133 in 40.4 overs (G. Udhay 41, N. Bhuvan Gowda 3/19) lost to Engrades 134/4 in 35.4 overs (Aalim Oliyath 50, M.G. Shiva Guru Rakshith 60).   Bangalore Occasionals 76 in 26.2 overs (Amogha Udupa 4/18) lost to Chintamani SA 77/3 in 18.2 overs (Rishab Thotapally 26 n.o.).   Modern 93 in 37 overs (Abishek Mohan 28, A.G. Adithya 3/6) lost to Young Lions Club 95/4 in 15 overs (Srinivas Bhargav 25, Mohammed Faiz 3/32).   Visweswarapuram (2) 52 in 22.4 overs (Samyak Vellalore 3/8, B. Srikanth 3/15) lost to Jawahar SC (1) 53/2 in 13.4 overs (H. Samit Ramesh 27 n.o.).   The Bangalore Cricketers 224/9 in 45 overs (S. Daivik 66, M. Vishruth 35) lost to Jolly Cricketers 228/4 in 40.2 overs (Vaasav Venkatesh 26, K.S. Kaustubh 44, K. Nihal Gowda 53 n.o., Sachin Bharadwaj 41). Match reduced to 45 overs per side because of wet outfield.   FUCC (2) 143 in 46.3 overs (N. Nitin Reddy 28, Kritin 40, Ansh Aima 3/30, Manikanth Shivanand 3/12) lost to Vultures 144/1 in 31.3 overs (Atharv Malviya 33, Pragyan Hota 76 n.o.).   FUCC (1) 159/7 in 26 overs (Ravi Kairav Reddy 48, Aditya Navalgund 44, Ronith Iyengar 25 n.o., G.S. Raiyan Malik 3/24) bt RVCE 104/7 in 26 overs (J.H. Samrudh 32). Match revised to 26 overs per side because of wet outfield.    The Karnataka State Billiards Association will conduct its veterans tournament from October 18. All members of KSBA and affiliated clubs/ associations aged 55 and above are eligible. Alongside the veterans tournament, the markers’ tournament will also be held. Entries for both close on October 15.     Reynash Jalan and Tanishka Kapil Kalbhairav emerged the boys’ and girls’ hopes category champions at the Karnataka State-ranking table tennis tournament, hosted by Malleswaram Association.  The results (final):   Hopes category: Reyansh Jalan bt Pratham V. Rao 11-5, 11-3, 13-11; Girls: Tanishka Kapil Kalbhairav bt Raashi V. Rao 11-4, 11-6, 11-3 .     Bangalore Youth Football League (BYFL) entered the final of the Bangalore Pro Football League tournament with a 4-2 penalty shoot-out victory over Raman Sports Academy. The tie was locked at 1-1 after regulation time. In the summit clash, BYFL will meet Roots Football School which beat Mysore Vijayanagar 3-1.  The result: BYFL 1 (Abhishek Chettry 46) bt Raman Sports Academy 1 (Avinash 40) [4-2 on penalties].   Roots Football School 3 (Vishal 26, 43, 50) bt Mysore Vijayanagar 1 (Sharath 35).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soha-sadiq-triumphs/article36923712.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Md. Ayaan and Khatri bowl well||Good spells by Mohd. Ayaan Ahmed (seven for 47) for Vijaypuri Willowmen and Devarsh Khatri (six for 28) for Crown CC were some of the highlights of the A2-Division (two-day league cricket championship here on Friday.  The scores: A2-Div. (two-day): Vijaypuri Willowmen 350 in 77.2 overs (Karan Yadav 76, Aashlesh Vaman 58, Sathwik Singareddy 55, V.M. Dhanush 84, P. Sai Murali 3/24, P. Kalyan Mani 3/53) bt Eleven Masters 125 in 37 overs (S. Pranav 30, Akshay Kumar 57, Mohammed Ayaan Ahmed 7/47).   Crown 217 in 53. 2 overs (Tarun Sai Krishna 64, Adithya Varma 41, Devara Aditya 4/35) bt Hyderabad Union 171 in 62.1 overs (Kamal Yadav 56, Devarsh Khatri 6/28).   Deccan Wanderers 235 in 78.2 overs bt Pasha Beedies 218 in 86.3 overs (Sujeet Prabatani 30, Faiz Ahmed 78, B. Rilasa Reddy 52, Praveen 31, G. Eshwar 3/37).   WMCC 355 in 87.1 overs bt Elegant 243 in 66.4 overs (Nenavath Shashi Kiran 57, Mirza Nomaan Baig 53, Pashwin Sooraj 72, Rafeeque Khan 4/40).   CCOB 150 in 48.4 overs bt Team Speed 139 in 61.2 overs (Shivanand Deekshith 56, Rahat Ali Khan 4/42).   Ours 148 in 46.1 overs (Vikyath 58, Traun Singh 5/21) bt Cheerful Chums 122 in 34 overs (Akshar Goud 39, D. Manish 3/27, Vikyath 3.4).   Venus Cybertech 238 in 49.4 overs bt Mega City 142 in 41 overs (Romith Reddy 102, R. Pranav Adithya 3/38, Mahboob Akthar 3/31).   Bharat 358 in 75.4 overs (Nidhish Dasawani 3/52) bt Hyderabad Panthers 200 in 50 overs (Shirshendu Sarkar 48, Shivananad Yadav 52, V.A. Lakshan Shiva Keerth 3/40, Anshul Konda 3/26).   Manchester 153 in 40.2 overs lost to Golconda 154/8 in 74.2 overs (Jagadish Reddy 32, Shiva Charan 30, Vineeth 3/29).   Warangal Dist.271 in 67.4 overs bt Greenlands 122 in 53 overs (Babarr Khan 30, N. Saketh Reddy 4/27, G. Pavan 4/21).    B. Yashavasin (Anandnagar Welfare Association Academy) and B. Srividya (Gujarati Seva Mandal) won the boys’ and girls’ titles respectively in the St. Paul’s annual Telangana inter-district table tennis championship for under-11 years.  The results: Boys: 1. B. Yashavasin (AWA), 2. Vevaan Bhatia (AWA), 3. V. Suhan Ratnam (VPG), 4. Amber (AWA); Girls: 1. B. Srividya (GSM), 2. Sri Saanvi (MLR), 3. G. Vaishnavi, 4. Debanshi (MLR) .     Amogha D. Varsha of Hyderabad Polo and Riding Club clinched honours in the Open category show jumping event for seniors of the Hyderabad equestrian meet organised by HPRC at Aziznagar near here.  The results: Dressage: Children II: 1. K. Venkata Srisanth (HPRC), 2. P. Ayaan(HPRC), 3. R. Aarush Reddy (HPRC); Children II: 1. Aluka Srini (HPRC), 2. D. Srivatsankit Rama Varma (HPRC), 3. Ch. Vibhu (HPRC); Juniors: 1. Ammara Bashir Babu Khan (HPRC), 2. Laasya Sri Sangishetti (MHRA); Show jumping: Open: 60 cm: 1. Dr. Veerendra Kaja (HRC), 2. Karan Kumar (HRC), 3. N. Sarayu (Nasr Polo) & K. Jaswanth (THRA); Open 1m: 80 cm: 1. Dr. Veerendra Khaja, 2. K. Shiva Reddy; Open: 1m: 1. Amogha D. Varsha (HPRC), 2. K. Venkata Srisanth; Hacks children II: 1. Ayaan, 2. Aarush Reddy & Maryem Sartaj Khan (THRA), 3. P. Aditya Karthikey (HPRC) & Ch. Viraat (HPRC).   Children I: 1. T. Ishanvi, 2. Ch. Vibhu & Sakhamuri Kirani (THRA), 3. Aluka Srini & Hanna Shalapur (HPRC).   Juniors: 1. Ch. Ritesh Goud (HPRC), 2. G. Shruthi (THRA), 3. Jaitra Arjun Yadav (THRA) & K. Gagan Sai (IHRS).   Seniors: 1. M. Sandeep (HPRC), 2. Waha Niyazi (THRA) & Karan Kumar (IHRS), 3. N. Yogitha Yadav (THRA).   Show jumping: Children II: 1. K.V. Srisanth.   Children I: 1. D. Srivatsankit Rama Varma, 2. Amogha.   Open juniors: 1. K. Venkata Srisanth, 2. Amogha, 3. Karan Kumar.   Open seniors: 1. Amogha, 2. Karan Kumar (HRC), 3. Dr. Veerendra Kaja .    Jatin Dev of St. Paul’s HS and N. Bhaavitha of Gujarati Seva Mandal won the boys’ and girls’ singles respectively of the Loknath Samal 8th Telangana Stag inter-district and state table tennis championship (under-19) at the Somnath Ghosh MLR-UTT Academy here on Saturday.  The results (of winners in super league): Boys: Jatin Dev bt Saikiran (AWA) 11-8, 11-4, 8-11, 11-8; Jatin lost to Anop Amara (AWA) 11-6, 10-12, 7-11, 11-6, 3-11); Jatin bt Kesavan Kannan (SG-MLR) 11-5, 11-13, 11-6, 11-6; Jatin bt K. Ishant (SPHS) 11-9, 9-11, 7-11, 11-7, 11-8; Jatin bt Raghuram (Nlg) 12-10, 11-7, 11-9; Jatin bt Trishul Mehra (LBS) 11-9, 11-13, 15-13, 11-9); Jatin bt Dhanush (AWA) 11-6, 11-6, 11-8.   Girls: N. Bhaavitha bt K. Pooja 11-7, 11-6, 11-9; Bhaavitha bt H.S. Nandini (VPG) 11-4, 11-3, 11-5; Bhaavitha bt Kavya (AWA) 11-8, 11-6, 11-6; Bhaavitha bt H.S. Nikhita (VPG) 11-6, 11-5, 11-5; Bhaavitha bt J. Gouri (SG-MLR) 11-9, 11-2, 11-3; N. Bhaavitha bt Devishree (SG-MLR) 11-6, 11-3, 11-9; Bhaavitha bt P. Mercy 11-4, 11-6, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/md-ayaan-and-khatri-bowl-well/article36923992.ece
10 October 2021||ISTANBUL,||Hamilton sizzles but Bottas on pole||Lewis Hamilton dominated qualifying on Saturday for the Turkish GP but Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas will start from pole as the Brit incurred a 10-place grid penalty for changing his engine. Hamilton, the championship leader, set a new lap record three times in qualifying. His closest rival for the title, Max Verstappen of Red Bull, will start alongside Bottas on the front row. Hamilton improved his time in each of the three qualifying phases. After breaking the 16-year-old track record in practice on Friday, he broke it again in each of the three qualifying sessions.  The grid: Row 1: Bottas (Mercedes), Verstappen (Red Bull); Row 2: Leclerc (Ferrari), Gasly (AlphaTauri); Row 3: Alonso (Alpine), Perez (Red Bull); Row 4: Norris (McLaren), Stroll (Aston Martin); Row 5: Tsunoda (AlphaTauri), Vettel (Aston Martin); Row 6: Hamilton (Mercedes), Ocon (Alpine); Row 7: Russell (Williams), Schumacher (Haas); Row 8: Ricciardo (McLaren), Latifi (Williams); Row 9: Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); Row 10: Mazepin (Haas), Sainz (Ferrari) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-sizzles-but-bottas-on-pole/article36923638.ece
10 October 2021||KARACHI,||Malik replaces Maqsood in Pakistan squad||Veteran batsman Shoaib Malik has been included in Pakistan's Twenty20 World Cup squad, replacing top-order batter Sohaib Maqsood, who was ruled out with a back problem, the selectors said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malik-replaces-maqsood-in-pakistan-squad/article36923671.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 07:30 IST,||Sudoku — October 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-10-2021/article36924334.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||SOS call ahead of the monsoon||With the North-East monsoon in the offing, residents of Venkatarathinam Nagar in Adyar have issued an SOS call, seeking that Greater Chennai Corporation clean and desilt the soak pits and stormwater drains without any delay. They have also requested that the damaged stormwater drains be repaired, which include replacing manholes that have broken lids and ears. As per the natural course, rainwater from the drain network on Venkatrathinam Nagar should flow through Kasturba Nagar, Venkatrathinam Nagar, Indira Nagar First Avenue and Indira Nagar Second Avenue to Buckingham Canal, but due to blocks and encroachments in stormwater drain network at the intersection of First and Second Avenue, Indira Nagar, rainwater does not flow into the Buckingham Canal, which results in stretches getting flooded. Shanthi TS Kamalsekaran, social activist and a member of Venkata Rathinam Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, says: “If they are not able to remove the encroachments, steps should be taken to clean the soak pits, desilt and remove water from the manholes through sucker machines. The process is not being followed due to cemented grills on soak pits, and damaged manholes lids.” As most drivers park their vehicles on soak pits, and manhole lids it gets damaged.  A GCC official has promised to take steps to do the needful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sos-call-ahead-of-the-monsoon/article36923334.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A colourful start to the academic session||Classrooms in three government schools are being readied to give studenys a warm and vibrant welcome, thanks to an initiative by NGO Thuvakkam. The drab walls of the classrooms are not only getting a fresh coat of paint but are also being decorated with paintings on environment themes and social messages. Thuvakkam with the support of HCL has adopted Government Model Higher Secondary School at Nandanam, Government Adi Dravida School at Avadi and Chennai High School at Sholinganallur for the next one year where it will be carrying out various initiatives, paintings the classroom improvement being the first on its agenda. Recently, the non-profit organised a 14-hour Paint-a-thon and clean-up after dark at the school in Nandanam, where volunteers from HCL and local volunteers also took part. “For all our clean-ups we post messages on social media inviting interested volunteers to come and help us, so we had 40 people come forward for it. A 14-year-old was one of the youngest participants,” says Krishnakumar, founder, Thuvakkam. For the clean-up after dark intiative, the group is hoping that more local volunteers from the area sign up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-colourful-start-to-the-academic-session/article36923339.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Thalambur residents dread the monsoon’||Residents of Thalambur and Semmancheri fear this year’s monsoon, replaying in their mind what transpired during last year’s — many residents taking up temporary accommodation elsewhere due to inundation. The fear stems from the fact that during the recent rains, Vedanthangal Nagar and Gandhi Nagar faced heavy waterlogging. Other significant factors fuelling this fear are: One, the widening of Nookampalayam bridge near Tsunami Colony in Semmencheri being incomplete. Two, the temporary blocking of a small link canal in Elzhil Nagar reportedly to check water flowing in from the Semmancheri canal. Due to this measure, water does not drain out. Three, the culvert carrying water from Navalur lake has been widened on the upstream on the Navalur-Thalambur roadside, but not on the downstream on the Gandhi Nagar side, leading to an increase in the volume of water flowing downstream. Further, the late start of desilting work on the Ottiyambakkam canal; and Culvert 31 on OMR being overrun still with the prosopis juliflora are worrying. Preparing for the worst, some residents have made arrangements for temporary accommodation elsewhere and these include senior citizens, and expectant mothers.  Bhuvana Raj and MB Chandramouli are residents of Thalambur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thalambur-residents-dread-the-monsoon/article36923338.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Velachery RWA honours conservancy workers||On October 2, at 2 p.m., the banquet hall at Sangeetha restaurant on 100 Ft Bypass Road in Velachery had been set ready for a rather rare celebration. Conservancy workers who collect garbage from AGS Colony in Velachery West and sweep the locality, walked in around 2 p.m., the time the shift ends. They were being hosted by AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association who had booked the hall to celebrate these conservancy for their service throughout the pandemic. The event had been set to October 2, the day marking the launch of Clean India Mission. Association members welcomed the conservancy workers into the hall with a round of applause. “We organised this lunch (south Indian full meals) for the 45 workers of Wards 177 and 178 of Zone 13- Adyar, as a small token of gratitude. They put themselves at risk and collected waste from households whose members were infected with COVID 19. Besides the workers, their supervisors were also invited,” says Association secretary Geetha Ganesh. Since October 2, 2015, a year after the launch of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Campaign), the Association has been celebrating the day by distributing sweet boxes to conservancy workers of their colony. Geetha says: “These workers are attached to Urbaser Sumeet Facilities Limited, the company appointed by Greater Chennai Corporation to carry out conservancy operations in the Adyar zone. Urbaser’s head for Adyar Zone M N Bhimrao took part in the celebration. Every October 2, we would like to have a get-together with conservancy workers. This gathering followed all COVID-19 safety guidelines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/velachery-rwa-honours-conservancy-workers/article36923330.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam gets bigger||The Hindu Group’s Kolu Kondattam is back, but on a different dimension being organised in four cities — Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Open for residents across Chennai, ‘Kolu Kondattam 2021’ requires participants to send a picture of their Kolu display along with the contestant's image. Each picture should not exceed 3MB. Participants can up their chances of winning by having a pack of Mangaldeep Agarbatti in their Kolu display photos. The kolu display photos can be uploaded on https://bit.ly/KOLU21 or Scan the QR Code. Last date for Registrations is 10th October 2021. The Kolu will be judged based on the theme and description. Description should include details of the Kolu arrangement and the elements of creativity that went into it. Our jury members will pay a visit to the top 25 shortlisted participants to choose the final three Winners of the contest. There is the possibility of a surprise visit from celebrities. The contest would be conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Covid-appropriate behaviour would be followed by all visiting the houses. The Kolu Kondattam 2021 prize details are: State wnner (overall, cash component) — first prize: 25,000; second prize: 15,000; and third prize: 10,000. To know more about city-specific prize details, visit the microsite. For more details, call Chennai: 9841298938. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances is the title sponsor. The event is powered by Mangaldeep. It is organised in association with Naga Food Products. SSVM Institutions is the education partner; Nippon Paint, the colour partner; Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. Associate sponsors are Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s. Gift sponsors are Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Stilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-gets-bigger/article36923333.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Seeking inclusive educataion for autistic children||A group including both autistic and neurotypical children put their hands up in support of inclusive education for autistic children in schools, at the inauguration of a wall-painting intiative on October 2 in Sholinganallur on Old Mahabalipuram Road. They left imprints of their hands on the wall, thereby indelibly registering this support. Part of Singara Chennai 2.0, the painting on the compound wall of a government school had been carried out by differently-abled artist Sakthivel and his team, on behalf of Autism Solutions, which works with children on the spectrum. The painting, carried out after obtaining permission from local Greater Chennai Corporation officials, seeks to capture the world and mind of the autistic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/seeking-inclusive-educataion-for-autistic-children/article36923336.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The unkindest cut of all||The countdown for the north-east monsoon having begun, local-body administrations must be on a tree-pruning spree. The blow has to be dealt. The cuts serve a larger good. The unkindest cut of all however is to walk away without binding the “wounds”. “When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter. The cut sections would have to be covered with wax or some kind of a sheet that prevents water from entering and creating holes that would give these borers, which are larvae of certain insects, a foothold. From there, a lot of things can happen. Repeated borer infestations can weaken a tree and cause it to fall. These trees can dry up or die,” says D Narasimhan, member of the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board. As the process of decay happens unnoticed over a lengthy passage of time, the plague afflicting trees with branches exposed from pruning goes unaddressed. Botanists and horticulturists agree that the process of borer infestation can be triggered by any form of injury to the tree. It is for this reason that the practice of nailing boards on trees is frowned upon. However, oddly enough, not securing and treating pruned sections with pest-control solutions rarely makes it to the radar. K Rajamani, professor and head of floriculture and medicinal crops at TNAU Coimbatore, spotlights the fact that when a tree has suffered any form of injury — a catchall that includes cuts resulting from pruning exercises — dealing with borers would require elaborate measures chalked up by an entomologist, and even then, control of the situation can prove frustratingly elusive. Trees can be plagued by fungal as well as pest infestation, but the striking distinction between the two lies in their diagnosis. Narasimhan elaborates: “Fungal infection is caused by a group of fungi called wood rot fungi which can affect the trunk even without a cut. Fungal infections are also a threat, but they can be detected. Insect borers go inside and damage the core of the trunk, undetected.” As a matter of best practice, the pruned section needs to be protected, says Rajamani, adding that the least that can be done is using readily available fungicidal solutions. “Fytolan, blue copper and bavistin are chemicals used as fungicide and are easily available. Just two grams of any of these chemicals in a bit of water will make a paste that can be applied to the cut portion,” Rajamani explains. K Raghavendra Rao, an organic farmer who has consulted for tree groups like Nizhal and even briefly ran a tree clinic many years ago, brings an organic perspective to the question. “The cutting has to be carried out without the branch breaking at the joint. On the flat surface, organic biocontrol fungicide and pesticide should be applied. The paste of pseudomonas and trichoderma can be mixed and applied to the cut portions. Pseudomonas will take care of fungi and trichoderma, insect pests. If the cost and availability of these solutions are a concerns, the easiest option would be to go in for copper oxychloride, which serves as fungicide, and lime, which can keep insect-pests at bay,” explains Raghavendra. While injuries can raise the risk of borer attacks in any tree, ageing trees are more susceptible to them. Raghavendra believes “older trees — those that are 25 to 30 years old and above — can be notified and take care of”. “Coconut trees are commonly infested with borers, with rhinozeros weevil — black-coloured with horns — being the agent of destruction. This weevil is commonly found in Chennai. It damages the leaf axils and feed on the newly emerging fronds in coconut trees,” says Rajamani. Raghavendra makes his observation: “Weevils are a big problem — when weevil grubs get in behind the bark, they can eat into the tree quietly unnoticed.” Trees suffer health complications that usually result from extraneous factors, and Shobha Menon, founder-trustee of tree NGO Nizhal, believes a tree health management plan has to be drawn up, whereby trees regularly receive “health check-ups”. Says Shobha: “We have been asking the local-body officials that we have to have a sensitive tree health management plan. We are looking at green and living infrastructure to be maintained. Trees give back to us in so many wonderful ways, and the least we can do is ensure they stay healthy and continue this generosity.”  When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-unkindest-cut-of-all/article36923371.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The tuk tuk hits a new trail||Packed to the rafters with commuters, these autorickshaws best capture the hustle and bustle of urban living in these parts. They have now slowed down to a trot, having settled down to an altogether different assignment. Share autorickshaws and maxi cabs are the new vaccination clinic, as Greater Chennai Corporation has employed them for vaccination drives in “unreached” areas. Over the last few weeks, a “vaccination auto” or a mobile vaccination unit has been doing the rounds in sections of Arumbakkam, MMDA Colony and other areas where camps could not be conducted earlier. N Adiyaman, a volunteer, points out that a doctor and a nurse are part of the team on board the vehicle. Priority is given to areas where vaccination eagerness is not seen, he says. These vehicles are also pressed into service when the health staff notice long queues of people at a camp and to help manage the crowd. “They also visit homes of senior citizens who cannot come to a nearby facility,” says Adiyaman. The doctor on board is expected to check the key health parameters of a person before administering the vaccine. On October 10, GCC is conducting a mega vaccination camp in various areas and these vehicles are expected to be on the move.  These vehicles also visit homes of senior citizens who cannot go to a nearby facility for vaccination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-tuk-tuk-hits-a-new-trail/article36923352.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiac surgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||Borers are like Macavity the Mystery Cat whose presence is felt only by the visible results of their hidden and unsettling behaviour. They are mysteriously absent from the scene of crime. Tree branches may dry up and fall, suggesting an insidious process within. Larvae of certain insects, borers operate concealed and therefore the blame cannot be laid confidently at these unseen larvae’s prolegs. Over a decade ago, Dr Janardhana Reddy found trees at his farm display telltale signs of borer-infestation. Due to the regular lack of clarity about whether and where they are nestling, measures to check borers are usually stabs in the dark. With the extent of borer-driven damage remaining unknown, one cannot be sure if the damage control exercise is adequate to the danger posed by them. As a cardiac surgeon, Dr Janardhana is accustomed to working with certainties, made possible by advanced imaging technologies. He had an Eureka moment, and before doubts could strangulate the idea, like wild creepers do hapless plants, he acted upon it. He started treating the trees as if they were a part of a human body that can be subjected to imaging studies. From trees suspected to be infested with borers, small and relevant branches — two-and-half feet long and three to four inches in diameter — would be removed and put through a flurry of xrays (dental xRays). CT and MRI scans were also run on these specimens. A series of 16 xRays on a specimen log of tree, taken over a period of time, showed the borers grow and leave, shares Dr. Janardhana, who is Chief Cardiovascular Surgeon at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram. The doctor underlines the effectiveness of MRI scans in detailing the presence of borers. He found moringa oleifera (drumstick) tree to be particularly susceptible to borer-infestation, and the coconut and mango trees were far behind. Tiny notches on the surface of coconut trees may indicate borer activity, the doctor adds. Mango trees are known to an easy target for borer infestions, and he discloses that around 25 years ago he had studied borers in the mango trees through cut branches, with the help of farmers. By using imaging technology to study these pests, he was only building upon an already deeply ensconced interest. The doctor discloses how he created presentation of his studies and placed it before people in the thick of tree care. On what benefits can accrue from such imaging studies, D Narasimhan, botanist and member of Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board notes that knowing the extent of damage and which section of the tree is infested can make for a targetted treatment plan. He says: “Insecticide can be injected into appropriate sections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiac-surgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923370.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Free hospice care unit finds a new address||Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) recently relocated its free hospice services to Villivakkam, bringing to a close four years of service from a familiar address in Sholavaram. In a journey that started in 2014, CPPC has moved campus twice. What began as a volunteering initiative at the Oncology Ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with the professional support of three nurses, would in 2017 start functioning from Sholavaram as a full-fledged facility with in-patient pain management and relief through what it called ‘Abhayam’. The terminally-ill patients being cared for at the unit were abandoned by their family members or had none who could take care of them. Its flagship initiative is offering free service at the doorstep of the terminally-ill. In seven years, CPPC has reportedly reached out to 4000 people with the support of its volunteers. “Except for the health care professionals, drivers, administrative staff and cooks, CPPC consists of volunteers. Of the 200 resident-volunteers registered with us, around 50 help us with field support,” says P Prakash, secretary of CPPC who works with Integral Coach Factory. “In 2015, we got an ambulance through donation and that made doorstep service easier,” says Prakash. The following year, CPPC received one more ambulance. “We had 180-200 patients in our database in the early years and we could make at least two visits a month to these homes,” says Prakash. A few key initiatives that has helped the non-profit be on its feet include empowering volunteers through workshops and trainings and the way its mobilises funds. “We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares,” says P T Ali, one of the founders and an entrepreneur. Families facing financial strain are offered monetary assistance. “If the patient is having financial problems at home or needs to fund a family member’s education, we try to help them with crowd-funding,” says Ali. Besides the medical personnel who handle the medical aspect of hospice care, volunteers take up a variety of roles including locating needy patients, spending time with the terminally ill and fundraising. Says Ali, “The idea is to interact with the patient and their family to bring a little happiness into their lives.” Donation boxes Donation boxes are kept at tea shops and lodges to support CPPC. “Around 300 tea shops in Chennai have donation boxes, which are an important source of funding. Besides, people contribute on a monthly basis,” says 70-year-old C K Gangadharan, advisor and a resident of Triplicane who does home care in Mylapore and surrounding neighbourhoods. He says CPPC has a convenor for every area in Chennai who is the point of contact. The Kerala model Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) has been inspired by Kerela-based Pain and Palliative Care Society (PPCS) with its community-based hospice care. PPCS — founded by Dr M R Rajagopal and Dr Suresh Kumar (now Director, WHO Collaborating Centre for Community Participation in Palliative care) — at the Institute of Palliative Medicine, Government Medical College in Kozhikode in 1993, is an exemplar of “Neighbourhood Networks in Palliative Care”, an alternative to institutional, hospital-based hospice care. “The model is popular in Kerala where palliative care centres are run by community-based organisations and NGOs,” says Ali. The Tamil Nadu government has launched ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, a ‘doorstep healthcare’ initiative that eliminates the need for patients to visit hospitals for treating non-communicable diseases. KP Suresh Babu, founder-trustee, says with the support from civil society groups the model can be taken to other districts. For details on how to volunteer, visit chennaipainandpalliativecare.org  We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-hospice-care-unit-finds-a-new-address/article36923383.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A natural pest control agent?||With its reputation as “woodworker” preceding it, a woodpecker may carry blood on its head that it never spilt. The uninformed and superficial observer may take every tap of its beak on wood for hole-making, territory-expanding self-aggrandisement. Having wrapped ts head neatly around the 80-20 pareto principle, the woodpecker makes its job easier by seeking out dead or partly weakened trees to drill its nest in, and invariably leaves the hole behind as a hand-me-down for other bird species to occupy and raise their young. More about this “altruism” later. With almost every other tap, the woodpecker is prospecting for insects that occupy the furrows and crevices of the bark. It can also look for insects in damaged sections of trees, and may in the process even get rid of certain tree-boring insects what larvae can damage trees unseen. ‘Borer’ signifies one stage in the development cycle of these insects, when as larvae, they do the damage. The black-rumped flameback occurs commonly in Chennai and surrounding areas, even in urban patches marked by a thick stand of trees, and a familiar snapshot is that of the bird at its post, diligently pecking away at a coconut tree. Scour eBird for black-rumped flameback sightings in Chennai, and the effort would dredge up addresses that connote the hubbub of city life. However, a black-rumped flameback sighting in urban spaces is hardly effortless, and there are obvious advantages in trying to turn this situation around. We will get to the how of it in a while. “There are a lot of studies in different places in the past that have shown that woodpeckers can control insect infestation of trees to some degree in temperate regions. But now, despite greater diversity of tree life, tropical regions are commonly hit by pest infestations on account of monoculture,” remarks ornithologist V Santharam, who has himself conducted an elaborate study of the eight woodpecker species found in the western ghats. While conceding that woodpeckers make short work of insects they find on tree surfaces, including exposed parts of cut branches, he is not certain if they would go to the trouble of drilling to get at borer-insects, actually their larvae. “Talking of insects that bore into wood, you need a woodpecker species that feeds on insects by making a hole. Woodpeckers have long, sticky tongues that they can insert into those galleries and grab insects. The larvae of borer-insects make holes as they go in, and woodpeckers may slightly enlarge the hole made by the borers and stick the tongue in and get them. When I studied the eight woodpecker species in the Western ghats at Peechi wildlife sanctuary, I found that many of the woodpeckers were reluctant to dig into the wood. To drill into the tree, they have to expend lot more energy pecking at the tree. Most of the time, they were feeding on insects found on the surface. They can get at the termites by digging a little bit and slightly disturbing the gallery. The ants are similarly taken. When food is available in plenty on the surface, why would they want to drill holes to reach for borers? Of course, if the borer-larvae are just under the barks, the woodpeckers will surely take them. Woodpeckers sometimes take insects that can harm trees and are therefore known as wood doctors.” The shape of the beak is a factor deciding how far a woodpecker would go for a meal. “The beak structure would to some extent tell you whether the bird is capable of making that hole. The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor. Out of the eight species I studied, two — the greater golden-backed woodpecker and the black woodpecker — were spending more time getting things done inside the tree and not just on the surface.” While fungi infestation is not good news for a tree, it certainly is for a woodpecker. “Many of the woodpeckers use trees that are infested with fungi so that boring a hole becomes much easier. Once woodpeckers make a hole in a dead tree — as decay happens slowly, the tree would be standing for 10 to 15 years — it is available for other hole-nesting birds like mynahs and parakeets and barbets. In my study, I noticed that 40 p.c. of the birds found in that forest were hole nesters and they depended on cavities created by woodpeckers for nesting.”  The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-natural-pest-control-agent/article36923376.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||Rajakilpakkam resident Vedic Ravi’s Navaratri invitation to friends is warm, but does not shy away from spelling out “the pandemic code”. “We would love to have you over to see our kolu, take thamulam and prasadham, but as we are still amidst the pandemic, we have listed a few precautions for everyone's safety and wellness.” Besides reminders on masking up and maintaining social distance, the invite urges those with any telltale symptoms to avoid going to gatherings and have themselves tested immediately. “As you enter our home, kindly wash your hands and legs or use sanitiser kept outside our home” Invited families are required to inform the host about the date and time of their visit so that crowding can be avoided. It does not seek to learn about the guest’s vaccination status but makes an important point – “If you are fully vaccinated it is good for yourself and society.” The invite ends with: “We are proud to inform you that our family is fully vaccinated.” While some families are baulking at inviting friends home to see the kolu arrangement, there are those who are making the nine-day festival a space to highlight importance of vaccination, among other things. Rani Sairam has included vaccination theme in her arrangement. It shows a “Vaccinated Family” with a child attending online classes and father working, both masked and maintaining social distancing. “I was a teacher for many years, so I was particular that my display had a takeaway for children. I did not find kolu dolls with masks and so, I created them by improvisinguponexisting sets. As schools are opening up and children have to maintain social distance in class, I have created a separate section at my home that highlights it,” says Rani, a resident of Vadapalani. As she lives in a 50-unit apartment complex, Rani has five different families come over every day to see her kolu alangarams. This year, her thamboolam pack comes with yet another addition. Apart from hand sanitiser, mask, gloves, there’s a short write-up tagged to the set that talks about vaccination. “I have not made it wordy or tried to be preachy but wanted to create awareness among those who are yet to take the vaccine that it is important,” says Rani. Ravi, who is also conducting a kolu contest in and around the neighbourhood, says it’s important that families celebrating Navaratri take utmost care while inviting guests. Asking someone their vaccination status might be an uncomfortable question but through the invite people can send across a message that it is the need of the hour. “We usually invite 200 people over for kolu , but this time our guest list has been trimmed to 50-60 families,” says Ravi. He says the Sembakkam municipality has placed “vaccine stickers” at homes where all members have taken the jab and this is an important thing to watch out for this festival season. At the home of SKPB Gopinath, managing director of Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks, a thermal checking instrument will scan guests before allowing them in. “The last three days of the festival is when we usually have maximum people coming home and when dinner is also served. This time, we have restricted the guest list and decided not to serve dinner but at the same time we have made sure all the rituals that are part of the festival are being observed,” says Gopinath. Some gated communities that are opening their clubhouses for organising Navaratri events are regulating the flow of residents. At SSPDL Crescent in Kelambakkam, every block is allotted a particular day when its members can make their visit . “We have five blocks and we want only 10-15 people from each wing visiting the club house where the arrangements are displayed,” says Manju Pandit, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923381.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambattur RWA giving GCC park a facelift||The Greater Chennai Corporation park on CTH Road in Ambattur is being given a makeover by Kochar Panchsheel Apartment Owners Association, after obtaining permission from the civic body. “In November 2019, the Association submitted a letter to GCC seeking permission to maintain the OSR park and in March 2020, we got an approval letter from GCC. The Association decided to maintain the park because it was badly maintained and many illegal activities were taking place there” says Uthra Renganathan, a resident of the apartments who volunteers for park maintenance. In the 1197.92 sq.m, various species of plants are being planted, including ornamental and medicinal plants. Among the tree varieties are vanni , sorghum , illuppai , koyya , vembu , maamaram , mantharai and naaval . “We have a set of plants that will blossom in the morning. They include hibiscus, rose, and canna. While those plants benefit the morning walkers, we also have jasmine and Mirabilis jalapa, commonly known as four o'clock flower and in Tamil as Anjumanipoo or Andhimandharai to greet the evening visitors,” says R. Sumathi, another resident volunteer. One of the challenges the Association confronted was water supply “The motor in the park was out of order. But it was addressed by channeling the water from the sewage treatment plant. Later, the Association set right the motor. It also attended to the lights in the park that were not burning,” says Uthra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ambattur-rwa-giving-gcc-park-a-facelift/article36923348.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambattur residents seek underground power cables||It is a decade since Ambattur was merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation. However, the area has not been provided with underground electricity cable facility. Residents of Thiruvengada Nagar have planted a good number of avenue trees to make their colony green and beautiful. Now, these trees have grown up tall. But they need to be pruned regularly as the branches often touch the power lines. Due to this, the streets of the colony do not enjoy dense tree canopies. While the State is encouraging its citizens to plant trees, it should also render support in sustaining such green exercises by providing underground power cables. S .Suresh is the general secretary of United Welfare Associations Ambattur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ambattur-residents-seek-underground-power-cables/article36923356.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A colourful start to the academic session||Classrooms in three government schools are being readied to give students a warm and vibrant welcome, thanks to an initiative by NGO Thuvakkam. The drab walls of the classrooms are not only getting a fresh coat of paint but are also being decorated with paintings on environment themes and social messages. Thuvakkam with the support of HCL has adopted Government Model Higher Secondary School at Nandanam, Government Adi Dravida School at Avadi and Chennai High School at Sholinganallur for the next one year where it will be carrying out various initiatives, paintings the classroom being the first on its agenda. Recently, the non-profit organised a 14-hour Paint-a-thon and clean-up after dark at the school in Nandanam, where volunteers from HCL and local volunteers also took part. “For all our clean-ups we post messages on social media inviting interested volunteers to come and help us, so we had 40 people come forward for it. A 14-year-old was one of the youngest participants,” says Krishnakumar, founder, Thuvakkam. For the clean-up after dark intiative, the group is hoping that more local volunteers from the area sign up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-colourful-start-to-the-academic-session/article36923364.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating a market for products by the differently-abled||It is a busy time of the year for organisations and institutions that serve adults with disabilities. Some of them are racing against a deadline to meet the festival requirement from customers, which includes designing torans , diyas , eco-friendly bags, potlis and decorative candles. At Rehoboth, a free home for the mentally-challenged destitute women, an average of 100 products are made every day – this is a steep rise from earlier months when 50 are done. This centre at Paraniputhur, near Porur, is home to more than 150 destitute women, so it has the advantage of working on an order request from a customer on a need basis. Of the 53 young adults on the rolls of the vocational unit at the Spastic Society of Tamilnadu (SPASTN), currently 10 who are fully vaccinated come to the centre on a staggered basis. Others have a parent collecting the materials from the institute and work on them from their home. Shopping for products made by the differently-abled may be a gentle reminder to practise inclusiveness and for the producer, it is a big step toward being self-reliant and independent. However, the journey for those working to empower such adults is not easy. Sumita Verghese, project coordinator, Rehoboth, says they look at the vocational skills picked up by their residents as “occupational therapy.” “Making profits selling products made by our residents is not our motive. Our larger aim is to mainstream these women,” says Sumita. She says fingers of these residents are not very deft and it is only with time that they improve. Most of these institutions with vocational units ask for ample time before an order can be delivered. At V-Excel Educational Trust, paper bag making is an everyday activity for the students in their two vocational units at Sastri Nagar and Mylapore. “But most of them have their mood swings and either do not turn up at the unit or refuse to work. So it is important to give them their space and, if need be, show them other skills to break the monotony,” says Charumathi Sriram, vocational coordinator, V-Excel. Sometimes letting them know where their work goes and the difference they bring to lives can generate new ideas. “In September, we took our students to Kuralagam, which is a big showroom for Navarathri shopping as we wanted to give them an experience of where their products go after they are made, how it is displayed at stores and help them understand shoppers’ preferences,” says Charumathi. Capacity building Non-profits like Special Needs Empowerment Hub (SNEH) and GiftAbled ensure products made by the differently-abled find right buyers. They help bring orders, suggest innovative ideas that are sought-after in the market, play on the strength of each institution and even carry out trials on the products before launching them. This is a big boost for these vocational units as Sumita says they neither have the resource nor the time to market the products. “L&T was the first corporate that supported our project and since then the support has come by word of mouth,” says Sumita. LV Jayashree, director, SPASTN, says one drawback most institutions with vocational units faced was they were not market-oriented and were not in a position to create market. “We work with SNEH and they drive product development for us, guiding us design a range of products targetting different segments of people for various occasions,” says Jayashree. Financial empowerment Jayashree says making them economically independent is an important step towards empowering the neuro-diverse individuals. “We are looking at bringing a stipend component once pandemic improves and all our students are back to the campus, for which we will have to come out with a workable model so that one is compensated based on his/her input and production capacity,” says Jayashree. V-Excel offer a small stipend to students involved in working at their units. Anuradha Mahesh of SNEH, a not-for-profit that works to bring institutions for special needs together and create employment opportunities, says with market slowly opening up, there are plenty of opportunities that can be tapped. “During the pandemic, we saw demand for items that employees need while working from home. Now, it is corporate gifting time and we need to leverage the goodness of the season,” says Anuradha. Visit snehindia.com or call 9840076322 to know how you could partner with them as a corporate, special school or as an an individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-a-market-for-products-by-the-differently-abled/article36923379.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam gets bigger||The Hindu Group’s Kolu Kondattam is back, but on a different dimension being organised in four cities — Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Open for residents across Chennai, ‘Kolu Kondattam 2021’ requires participants to send a picture of their Kolu display along with the contestant's image. Each picture should not exceed 3MB. Participants can up their chances of winning by having a pack of Mangaldeep Agarbatti in their Kolu display photos. The kolu display photos can be uploaded on https://bit.ly/KOLU21 or Scan the QR Code. Last date for Registrations is 10th October 2021. The Kolu will be judged based on the theme and description. Description should include details of the Kolu arrangement and the elements of creativity that went into it. Our jury members will pay a visit to the top 25 shortlisted participants to choose the final three Winners of the contest. There is the possibility of a surprise visit from celebrities. The contest would be conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Covid-appropriate behaviour would be followed by all visiting the houses. The Kolu Kondattam 2021 prize details are: State wnner (overall, cash component) — first prize: 25,000; second prize: 15,000; and third prize: 10,000. To know more about city-specific prize details, visit the microsite. For more details, call Chennai: 9841298938. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances is the title sponsor. The event is powered by Mangaldeep. It is organised in association with Naga Food Products. SSVM Institutions is the education partner; Nippon Paint, the colour partner; Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. Associate sponsors are Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s. Gift sponsors are Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Stilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-gets-bigger/article36923344.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Walkways at Tower Park are battered’||The walkways and the roads within the Dr Visvesvaraya Tower Park in Anna Nagar are battered. Visitors to the park, especially senior citizens, have to be cautious while they walk around the facility. Despite repeated complaints toGreater Chennai Corporation, no remedial action has been taken. D. Parandaman is a resident of Anna Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/walkways-at-tower-park-are-battered/article36923358.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The patient’s condition defines the volunteer’s role||Volunteers with Chennai Pain and Palliative Care have inspirational stories to share, a majority of which is about caring for strangers as if they were family. There are also a few stories of volunteers caring for their own flesh and blood — relatives who are terminally ill. Vijayan Kanayi was attending to a terminally-ill cancer patient at the latter’s home in Pattabiram when this reporter called him recently. Vijyan explained that the 43-year-old patient had to be brought to the hospice centre at Villivakkam in an ambulance. Vijayan, an employee of Heavy Vehicles Factory, says: “I work on different shifts, which enables me to adjust my time, including my weekly off, which I set aside for a home visit.” Vijayan underlines that there are 20 patients he is committed to taking care of. When homemaker Sajini Vijayakumar joined as a volunteer more than four years ago, she had specified that 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. would be her preferred timings. However, over the years she got so involved with the centre’s work that Sajini would not say no even if a request came late in the night. “Once you volunteer for palliative care, you bear one fact in mind. There is no telling when a patient would be in pain. You just need to be there for the family,” says Sajini, who coordinates for patients from Royapuram to Manali New Town. In one of her early assignments, the patient required to be given a bath and fed. “An important aspects of the care extended to a patient is to provide them with the food they want. Fulfilling the small desires of a dying person is important to see the person leave peacefully,” she says. Sindu Sunilkumar, former principal of a special school, says the role is not spelt out for a volunteer. “During home visits, we clean the premises if we find it dirty, cut the patient’s nails, spoon-feed them if necessary, buy medicines and most important offer emotional support to make sure they have a peaceful death,” says the Virugambakkam resident, who along with her neighbour does home visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-patients-condition-defines-the-volunteers-role/article36923384.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC to further extend care for pruned trees, says Bedi||There is strong indication that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will soon give trees that are pruned a healing touch. In an interaction with The Hindu , GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi announced that the civic body would explore what solutions can be applied to the cut portions of trees to prevent any damage that may result from exposure to opportunistic pests. He pointed out the process would be worked out with the help of the assistant directors for the horticulture department who are currently on deputation to GCC, and operating in its three regions: south, central and north. He also communicated the civic body’s openness to having citizens on board in this matter, by inviting suggestions from them. The commissioner said that the new measure would be an extension of a culture of care towards trees GCC promoted. Even now, “minimal cutting” was the catchphrase; and that only the section that was going to touch the power lines in the event of a gust or any other disturbance could be cut. Bedi underlined that standing instructions to workers on tree-pruning work — now as part of monsoon-preparedness and through the year, as part of regular maintenance — were that pruning should be executed carefully to prevent any harm to the tree, and the cut sections of a branch should be removed immediately. The commissioner also pointed out that the civic body had two specialised tree-pruning machines for each of the three regions. In addition to that, there were all the regular equipment including power saws, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-to-further-extend-care-for-pruned-trees-says-bedi/article36923374.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination camp at VR Mall||If you are yet to take the jab, you can head to VR Mall. A team from Greater Chennai Corporation is setting up a camp at the mall on October 10 from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. to encourage shoppers who are yet to take the vaccine to do so. Make sure to carry the relevant documents. The Sunday camp is not new. Ravikumar, health inspector, Division 99, says they have conducted four camps at the mall so far. “We got an average of 350 people taking the jab every Sunday, so there is a plan to extend this even during weekdays,” says Ravikumar. To make sure shoppers do not miss the team parked at the entrance of the mall they have also another set of health care professionals waiting to invite people coming from the parking area. “The mall authorities have been supporting us by making announcements about the vaccination facility,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vaccination-camp-at-vr-mall/article36923349.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Talk on mental health||To create awareness on World Mental Health Day, Yuvathi and Mind Cafe at Nithra, Anna Nagar, are conducting an interactive session with Dr. Vijayakarthikeyan, secretary, Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission on October 16 at 4 p.m. He will share his insights on the current mental health scenario, said a release. It will be followed by a talk by Radha Mohan, professor of psychology, on ‘Are we losing the art of conversations?’ Yuvathi is an NGO working to promote mental health. To register and for other details, contact 9094999955, 44 43502252, 9150727744.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/talk-on-mental-health/article36923359.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Blood donation camp held||Hundred units of blood was collected recently at a camp organised by Rotary Club of Chennai Bharathi and Mufaddal Polyclinic, Royapuram. The event was held to commemorate Chehlum, an Islamic observance, and was led by Dawoodi Bohra community’s philanthropic arm, Project Rise. MLA of Royapuram R. Moorthi and A. Ravindran, District Chairman of Rotary Club of Chennai Mitra, took part in the camp. Ravindran has donated blood a hundred times, said a release. Project Rise has been organising vaccination camps along with the Greater Chennai Corporation and have vaccinated 12,000 people till date, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/blood-donation-camp-held/article36923362.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Give those trees to the wood doctor||Ornithologist V Santharam spells out two factors that enable the black-rumped flameback to “adopt” a patch. 1. “Leave the odd large old tree that is dead or have dead branches, provided it is not a hazard to passersby. Obviously, such a tree should be in a space that people do not venture into. Woodpeckers require such large trees , especially the black-rumped flameback, as they enable to drill a nest with minimal effort.” 2. Besides,the bird needs an adequate stand of healthy trees to meet it insect-dominated diet plan. “The structure of the tree and barks are very important. In some cases, the bark is very smooth, as in eucalyptus trees. There are not many ridges. They do go on eucalyptus trees, but it is not convenient for them. In some of the native trees such as neem and tamarind, the bark is furrowed and harbour insects in plenty. Woodpeckers find it convenient to hunt for insects there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/give-those-trees-to-the-wood-doctor/article36923372.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923346.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiosurgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiosurgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923354.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Free hospice care unit finds a new address||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-hospice-care-unit-finds-a-new-address/article36923341.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-balancing-act/article36923361.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The unkindest cut of all||The countdown for the north-east monsoon having begun, local-body administrations must be on a tree-pruning spree. The blow has to be dealt. The cuts serve a larger good. The unkindest cut of all however is to walk away without binding the “wounds”. “When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter. The cut sections would have to be covered with wax or some kind of a sheet that prevents water from entering and creating holes that would give these borers, which are larvae of certain insects, a foothold. From there, a lot of things can happen. Repeated borer infestations can weaken a tree and cause it to fall. These trees can dry up or die,” says D Narasimhan, member of the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board. As the process of decay happens unnoticed over a lengthy passage of time, the plague afflicting trees with branches exposed from pruning goes unaddressed. Botanists and horticulturists agree that the process of borer infestation can be triggered by any form of injury to the tree. It is for this reason that the practice of nailing boards on trees is frowned upon. However, oddly enough, not securing and treating pruned sections with pest-control solutions rarely makes it to the radar. K Rajamani, professor and head of floriculture and medicinal crops at TNAU Coimbatore, spotlights the fact that when a tree has suffered any form of injury — a catchall that includes cuts resulting from pruning exercises — dealing with borers would require elaborate measures chalked up by an entomologist, and even then, control of the situation can prove frustratingly elusive. Trees can be plagued by fungal as well as pest infestation, but the striking distinction between the two lies in their diagnosis. Narasimhan elaborates: “Fungal infection is caused by a group of fungi called wood rot fungi which can affect the trunk even without a cut. Fungal infections are also a threat, but they can be detected. Insect borers go inside and damage the core of the trunk, undetected.” As a matter of best practice, the pruned section needs to be protected, says Rajamani, adding that the least that can be done is using readily available fungicidal solutions. “Fytolan, blue copper and bavistin are chemicals used as fungicide and are easily available. Just two grams of any of these chemicals in a bit of water will make a paste that can be applied to the cut portion,” Rajamani explains. K Raghavendra Rao, an organic farmer who has consulted for tree groups like Nizhal and even briefly ran a tree clinic many years ago, brings an organic perspective to the question. “The cutting has to be carried out without the branch breaking at the joint. On the flat surface, organic biocontrol fungicide and pesticide should be applied. The paste of pseudomonas and trichoderma can be mixed and applied to the cut portions. Pseudomonas will take care of fungi and trichoderma, insect pests. If the cost and availability of these solutions are a concerns, the easiest option would be to go in for copper oxychloride, which serves as fungicide, and lime, which can keep insect-pests at bay,” explains Raghavendra. While injuries can raise the risk of borer attacks in any tree, ageing trees are more susceptible to them. Raghavendra believes “older trees — those that are 25 to 30 years old and above — can be notified and take care of”. “Coconut trees are commonly infested with borers, with rhinozeros weevil — black-coloured with horns — being the agent of destruction. This weevil is commonly found in Chennai. It damages the leaf axils and feed on the newly emerging fronds in coconut trees,” says Rajamani. Raghavendra makes his observation: “Weevils are a big problem — when weevil grubs get in behind the bark, they can eat into the tree quietly unnoticed.” Trees suffer health complications that usually result from extraneous factors, and Shobha Menon, founder-trustee of tree NGO Nizhal, believes a tree health management plan has to be drawn up, whereby trees regularly receive “health check-ups”. Says Shobha: “We have been asking the local-body officials that we have to have a sensitive tree health management plan. We are looking at green and living infrastructure to be maintained. Trees give back to us in so many wonderful ways, and the least we can do is ensure they stay healthy and continue this generosity.”  When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-unkindest-cut-of-all/article36923395.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiac surgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||Borers are like Macavity the Mystery Cat whose presence is felt only by the visible results of their hidden and unsettling behaviour. They are mysteriously absent from the scene of crime. Tree branches may dry up and fall, suggesting an insidious process within. Larvae of certain insects, borers operate concealed and therefore the blame cannot be laid confidently at these unseen larvae’s prolegs. Over a decade ago, Dr Janardhana Reddy found trees at his farm display telltale signs of borer-infestation. Due to the regular lack of clarity about whether and where they are nestling, measures to check borers are usually stabs in the dark. With the extent of borer-driven damage remaining unknown, one cannot be sure if the damage control exercise is adequate to the danger posed by them. As a cardiac surgeon, Dr Janardhana is accustomed to working with certainties, made possible by advanced imaging technologies. He had an Eureka moment, and before doubts could strangulate the idea, like wild creepers do hapless plants, he acted upon it. He started treating the trees as if they were a part of a human body that can be subjected to imaging studies. From trees suspected to be infested with borers, small and relevant branches — two-and-half feet long and three to four inches in diameter — would be removed and put through a flurry of xrays (dental xRays). CT and MRI scans were also run on these specimens. A series of 16 xRays on a specimen log of tree, taken over a period of time, showed the borers grow and leave, shares Dr. Janardhana, who is Chief Cardiovascular Surgeon at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram. The doctor underlines the effectiveness of MRI scans in detailing the presence of borers. He found moringa oleifera (drumstick) tree to be particularly susceptible to borer-infestation, and the coconut and mango trees were far behind. Tiny notches on the surface of coconut trees may indicate borer activity, the doctor adds. Mango trees are known to an easy target for borer infestions, and he discloses that around 25 years ago he had studied borers in the mango trees through cut branches, with the help of farmers. By using imaging technology to study these pests, he was only building upon an already deeply ensconced interest. The doctor discloses how he created presentation of his studies and placed it before people in the thick of tree care. On what benefits can accrue from such imaging studies, D Narasimhan, botanist and member of Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board notes that knowing the extent of damage and which section of the tree is infested can make for a targetted treatment plan. He says: “Insecticide can be injected into appropriate sections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiac-surgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923394.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Free hospice care unit finds a new address||Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) recently relocated its free hospice services to Villivakkam, bringing to a close four years of service from a familiar address in Sholavaram. In a journey that started in 2014, CPPC has moved campus twice. What began as a volunteering initiative at the Oncology Ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with the professional support of three nurses, would in 2017 start functioning from Sholavaram as a full-fledged facility with in-patient pain management and relief through what it called ‘Abhayam’. The terminally-ill patients being cared for at the unit were abandoned by their family members or had none who could take care of them. Its flagship initiative is offering free service at the doorstep of the terminally-ill. In seven years, CPPC has reportedly reached out to 4000 people with the support of its volunteers. “Except for the health care professionals, drivers, administrative staff and cooks, CPPC consists of volunteers. Of the 200 resident-volunteers registered with us, around 50 help us with field support,” says P Prakash, secretary of CPPC who works with Integral Coach Factory. “In 2015, we got an ambulance through donation and that made doorstep service easier,” says Prakash. The following year, CPPC received one more ambulance. “We had 180-200 patients in our database in the early years and we could make at least two visits a month to these homes,” says Prakash. A few key initiatives that has helped the non-profit be on its feet include empowering volunteers through workshops and trainings and the way its mobilises funds. “We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares,” says P T Ali, one of the founders and an entrepreneur. Families facing financial strain are offered monetary assistance. “If the patient is having financial problems at home or needs to fund a family member’s education, we try to help them with crowd-funding,” says Ali. Besides the medical personnel who handle the medical aspect of hospice care, volunteers take up a variety of roles including locating needy patients, spending time with the terminally ill and fundraising. Says Ali, “The idea is to interact with the patient and their family to bring a little happiness into their lives.” Donation boxes Donation boxes are kept at tea shops and lodges to support CPPC. “Around 300 tea shops in Chennai have donation boxes, which are an important source of funding. Besides, people contribute on a monthly basis,” says 70-year-old C K Gangadharan, advisor and a resident of Triplicane who does home care in Mylapore and surrounding neighbourhoods. He says CPPC has a convenor for every area in Chennai who is the point of contact. The Kerala model Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) has been inspired by Kerela-based Pain and Palliative Care Society (PPCS) with its community-based hospice care. PPCS — founded by Dr M R Rajagopal and Dr Suresh Kumar (now Director, WHO Collaborating Centre for Community Participation in Palliative care) — at the Institute of Palliative Medicine, Government Medical College in Kozhikode in 1993, is an exemplar of “Neighbourhood Networks in Palliative Care”, an alternative to institutional, hospital-based hospice care. “The model is popular in Kerala where palliative care centres are run by community-based organisations and NGOs,” says Ali. The Tamil Nadu government has launched ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, a ‘doorstep healthcare’ initiative that eliminates the need for patients to visit hospitals for treating non-communicable diseases. KP Suresh Babu, founder-trustee, says with the support from civil society groups the model can be taken to other districts. For details on how to volunteer, visit chennaipainandpalliativecare.org  We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-hospice-care-unit-finds-a-new-address/article36923401.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A natural pest control agent?||With its reputation as “woodworker” preceding it, a woodpecker may carry blood on its head that it never spilt. The uninformed and superficial observer may take every tap of its beak on wood for hole-making, territory-expanding self-aggrandisement. Having wrapped ts head neatly around the 80-20 pareto principle, the woodpecker makes its job easier by seeking out dead or partly weakened trees to drill its nest in, and invariably leaves the hole behind as a hand-me-down for other bird species to occupy and raise their young. More about this “altruism” later. With almost every other tap, the woodpecker is prospecting for insects that occupy the furrows and crevices of the bark. It can also look for insects in damaged sections of trees, and may in the process even get rid of certain tree-boring insects what larvae can damage trees unseen. ‘Borer’ signifies one stage in the development cycle of these insects, when as larvae, they do the damage. The black-rumped flameback occurs commonly in Chennai and surrounding areas, even in urban patches marked by a thick stand of trees, and a familiar snapshot is that of the bird at its post, diligently pecking away at a coconut tree. Scour eBird for black-rumped flameback sightings in Chennai, and the effort would dredge up addresses that connote the hubbub of city life. However, a black-rumped flameback sighting in urban spaces is hardly effortless, and there are obvious advantages in trying to turn this situation around. We will get to the how of it in a while. “There are a lot of studies in different places in the past that have shown that woodpeckers can control insect infestation of trees to some degree in temperate regions. But now, despite greater diversity of tree life, tropical regions are commonly hit by pest infestations on account of monoculture,” remarks ornithologist V Santharam, who has himself conducted an elaborate study of the eight woodpecker species found in the western ghats. While conceding that woodpeckers make short work of insects they find on tree surfaces, including exposed parts of cut branches, he is not certain if they would go to the trouble of drilling to get at borer-insects, actually their larvae. “Talking of insects that bore into wood, you need a woodpecker species that feeds on insects by making a hole. Woodpeckers have long, sticky tongues that they can insert into those galleries and grab insects. The larvae of borer-insects make holes as they go in, and woodpeckers may slightly enlarge the hole made by the borers and stick the tongue in and get them. When I studied the eight woodpecker species in the Western ghats at Peechi wildlife sanctuary, I found that many of the woodpeckers were reluctant to dig into the wood. To drill into the tree, they have to expend lot more energy pecking at the tree. Most of the time, they were feeding on insects found on the surface. They can get at the termites by digging a little bit and slightly disturbing the gallery. The ants are similarly taken. When food is available in plenty on the surface, why would they want to drill holes to reach for borers? Of course, if the borer-larvae are just under the barks, the woodpeckers will surely take them. Woodpeckers sometimes take insects that can harm trees and are therefore known as wood doctors.” The shape of the beak is a factor deciding how far a woodpecker would go for a meal. “The beak structure would to some extent tell you whether the bird is capable of making that hole. The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor. Out of the eight species I studied, two — the greater golden-backed woodpecker and the black woodpecker — were spending more time getting things done inside the tree and not just on the surface.” While fungi infestation is not good news for a tree, it certainly is for a woodpecker. “Many of the woodpeckers use trees that are infested with fungi so that boring a hole becomes much easier. Once woodpeckers make a hole in a dead tree — as decay happens slowly, the tree would be standing for 10 to 15 years — it is available for other hole-nesting birds like mynahs and parakeets and barbets. In my study, I noticed that 40 p.c. of the birds found in that forest were hole nesters and they depended on cavities created by woodpeckers for nesting.”  The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-natural-pest-control-agent/article36923398.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||Rajakilpakkam resident Vedic Ravi’s Navaratri invitation to friends is warm, but does not shy away from spelling out “the pandemic code”. “We would love to have you over to see our kolu, take thamulam and prasadham, but as we are still amidst the pandemic, we have listed a few precautions for everyone's safety and wellness.” Besides reminders on masking up and maintaining social distance, the invite urges those with any telltale symptoms to avoid going to gatherings and have themselves tested immediately. “As you enter our home, kindly wash your hands and legs or use sanitiser kept outside our home” Invited families are required to inform the host about the date and time of their visit so that crowding can be avoided. It does not seek to learn about the guest’s vaccination status but makes an important point – “If you are fully vaccinated it is good for yourself and society.” The invite ends with: “We are proud to inform you that our family is fully vaccinated.” While some families are baulking at inviting friends home to see the kolu arrangement, there are those who are making the nine-day festival a space to highlight importance of vaccination, among other things. Rani Sairam has included vaccination theme in her arrangement. It shows a “Vaccinated Family” with a child attending online classes and father working, both masked and maintaining social distancing. “I was a teacher for many years, so I was particular that my display had a takeaway for children. I did not find kolu dolls with masks and so, I created them by improvisinguponexisting sets. As schools are opening up and children have to maintain social distance in class, I have created a separate section at my home that highlights it,” says Rani, a resident of Vadapalani. As she lives in a 50-unit apartment complex, Rani has five different families come over every day to see her kolu alangarams. This year, her thamboolam pack comes with yet another addition. Apart from hand sanitiser, mask, gloves, there’s a short write-up tagged to the set that talks about vaccination. “I have not made it wordy or tried to be preachy but wanted to create awareness among those who are yet to take the vaccine that it is important,” says Rani. Ravi, who is also conducting a kolu contest in and around the neighbourhood, says it’s important that families celebrating Navaratri take utmost care while inviting guests. Asking someone their vaccination status might be an uncomfortable question but through the invite people can send across a message that it is the need of the hour. “We usually invite 200 people over for kolu , but this time our guest list has been trimmed to 50-60 families,” says Ravi. He says the Sembakkam municipality has placed “vaccine stickers” at homes where all members have taken the jab and this is an important thing to watch out for this festival season. At the home of SKPB Gopinath, managing director of Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks, a thermal checking instrument will scan guests before allowing them in. “The last three days of the festival is when we usually have maximum people coming home and when dinner is also served. This time, we have restricted the guest list and decided not to serve dinner but at the same time we have made sure all the rituals that are part of the festival are being observed,” says Gopinath. Some gated communities that are opening their clubhouses for organising Navaratri events are regulating the flow of residents. At SSPDL Crescent in Kelambakkam, every block is allotted a particular day when its members can make their visit . “We have five blocks and we want only 10-15 people from each wing visiting the club house where the arrangements are displayed,” says Manju Pandit, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923400.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden blooms out of a crematorium||Instead of cribbing over his workplace, the crematorium at Aaduthotti in Saidapet, which was nothing short of an eyesore, Jeganathan B gave it a fresh and vibrant look. On October 1 last, the 28-year-old started his first job with Urbaser Sumeet Facilities Limited as a unit officer. Then, his duty was to manage the conservancy operations in Saidapet, Adyar, Kotturpuram, and Raja Annamalaipuram. His job had nothing to do with the Greater Chennai Corporation-run crematorium. It was just a place designated by the Corporation for the assembly of conservancy workers in the morning and evening. However, Jaganathan was drawn to the unkempt crematorium which was overrun with vegetation and littered with all kinds of waste, including plastic items and garbage. He felt impelled to set things right there. And he did this with the support of a few conservancy workers. Due to his efforts in the last one year, a garden has been raised “It was all possible because of Jerusalem Samuel, the supervisor, and some conservancy workers who reside near the the crematorium. We used to stay back after our duty hours, that is after 3 p.m., and spend some time cleaning the place and started raising a garden. Now we have planted papaya, jackfruit, neem, coconuts and a few more trees,” says Jaganathan who resides at Triplicane. The commerce graduate was earlier a boxing coach. “Next, I have plans to raise a garden in the crematorium on Guru Nanak Salai in Velachery. That is again another assembly point for the conservancy workers. There, battery-operated vehicles are also parked,” says Jaganathan. Now, he is in charge of the conservancy operations in Maduvankarai, Aadambakkkam and Saidpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garden-blooms-out-of-a-crematorium/article36923387.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Snapshot of a rejuvenated street||Following beautification, Kalvivaru Street looks fetching. The street begins with a broad pavement for pedestrians. The middle section is marked by the presence of a children’s play area on an adjacent space. At the end, a gate opens to the Buckingham Canal. The colourfully painted walls add beauty to this street. While clearing abandoned vehicles is a task yet to be completed, this is definitely a great beginning. Ridding the canal of sewage inflows and bringing back boat rides would do much for local tourism. Subha Dilip is a resident of Royapettah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/snapshot-of-a-rejuvenated-street/article36923392.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating a market for products by the differently-abled||It is a busy time of the year for organisations and institutions that serve adults with disabilities. Some of them are racing against a deadline to meet the festival requirement from customers, which includes designing torans , diyas , eco-friendly bags, potlis and decorative candles. At Rehoboth, a free home for the mentally-challenged destitute women, an average of 100 products are made every day – this is a steep rise from earlier months when 50 are done. This centre at Paraniputhur, near Porur, is home to more than 150 destitute women, so it has the advantage of working on an order request from a customer on a need basis. Of the 53 young adults on the rolls of the vocational unit at the Spastic Society of Tamilnadu (SPASTN), currently 10 who are fully vaccinated come to the centre on a staggered basis. Others have a parent collecting the materials from the institute and work on them from their home. Shopping for products made by the differently-abled may be a gentle reminder to practise inclusiveness and for the producer, it is a big step toward being self-reliant and independent. However, the journey for those working to empower such adults is not easy. Sumita Verghese, project coordinator, Rehoboth, says they look at the vocational skills picked up by their residents as “occupational therapy.” “Making profits selling products made by our residents is not our motive. Our larger aim is to mainstream these women,” says Sumita. She says fingers of these residents are not very deft and it is only with time that they improve. Most of these institutions with vocational units ask for ample time before an order can be delivered. At V-Excel Educational Trust, paper bag making is an everyday activity for the students in their two vocational units at Sastri Nagar and Mylapore. “But most of them have their mood swings and either do not turn up at the unit or refuse to work. So it is important to give them their space and, if need be, show them other skills to break the monotony,” says Charumathi Sriram, vocational coordinator, V-Excel. Sometimes letting them know where their work goes and the difference they bring to lives can generate new ideas. “In September, we took our students to Kuralagam, which is a big showroom for Navarathri shopping as we wanted to give them an experience of where their products go after they are made, how it is displayed at stores and help them understand shoppers’ preferences,” says Charumathi. Capacity building Non-profits like Special Needs Empowerment Hub (SNEH) and GiftAbled ensure products made by the differently-abled find right buyers. They help bring orders, suggest innovative ideas that are sought-after in the market, play on the strength of each institution and even carry out trials on the products before launching them. This is a big boost for these vocational units as Sumita says they neither have the resource nor the time to market the products. “L&T was the first corporate that supported our project and since then the support has come by word of mouth,” says Sumita. LV Jayashree, director, SPASTN, says one drawback most institutions with vocational units faced was they were not market-oriented and were not in a position to create market. “We work with SNEH and they drive product development for us, guiding us design a range of products targetting different segments of people for various occasions,” says Jayashree. Financial empowerment Jayashree says making them economically independent is an important step towards empowering the neuro-diverse individuals. “We are looking at bringing a stipend component once pandemic improves and all our students are back to the campus, for which we will have to come out with a workable model so that one is compensated based on his/her input and production capacity,” says Jayashree. V-Excel offer a small stipend to students involved in working at their units. Anuradha Mahesh of SNEH, a not-for-profit that works to bring institutions for special needs together and create employment opportunities, says with market slowly opening up, there are plenty of opportunities that can be tapped. “During the pandemic, we saw demand for items that employees need while working from home. Now, it is corporate gifting time and we need to leverage the goodness of the season,” says Anuradha. Visit snehindia.com or call 9840076322 to know how you could partner with them as a corporate, special school or as an an individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-a-market-for-products-by-the-differently-abled/article36923399.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam gets bigger||The Hindu Group’s Kolu Kondattam is back, but on a different dimension being organised in four cities — Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Open for residents across Chennai, ‘Kolu Kondattam 2021’ requires participants to send a picture of their Kolu display along with the contestant's image. Each picture should not exceed 3MB. Participants can up their chances of winning by having a pack of Mangaldeep Agarbatti in their Kolu display photos. The kolu display photos can be uploaded on https://bit.ly/KOLU21 or Scan the QR Code. Last date for Registrations is 10th October 2021. The Kolu will be judged based on the theme and description. Description should include details of the Kolu arrangement and the elements of creativity that went into it. Our jury members will pay a visit to the top 25 shortlisted participants to choose the final three Winners of the contest. There is the possibility of a surprise visit from celebrities. The contest would be conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Covid-appropriate behaviour would be followed by all visiting the houses. The Kolu Kondattam 2021 prize details are: State wnner (overall, cash component) — first prize: 25,000; second prize: 15,000; and third prize: 10,000. To know more about city-specific prize details, visit the microsite. For more details, call Chennai: 9841298938. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances is the title sponsor. The event is powered by Mangaldeep. It is organised in association with Naga Food Products. SSVM Institutions is the education partner; Nippon Paint, the colour partner; Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. Associate sponsors are Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s. Gift sponsors are Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Stilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-gets-bigger/article36923389.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The patient’s condition defines the volunteer’s role||Volunteers with Chennai Pain and Palliative Care have inspirational stories to share, a majority of which is about caring for strangers as if they were family. There are also a few stories of volunteers caring for their own flesh and blood — relatives who are terminally ill. Vijayan Kanayi was attending to a terminally-ill cancer patient at the latter’s home in Pattabiram when this reporter called him recently. Vijyan explained that the 43-year-old patient had to be brought to the hospice centre at Villivakkam in an ambulance. Vijayan, an employee of Heavy Vehicles Factory, says: “I work on different shifts, which enables me to adjust my time, including my weekly off, which I set aside for a home visit.” Vijayan underlines that there are 20 patients he is committed to taking care of. When homemaker Sajini Vijayakumar joined as a volunteer more than four years ago, she had specified that 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. would be her preferred timings. However, over the years she got so involved with the centre’s work that Sajini would not say no even if a request came late in the night. “Once you volunteer for palliative care, you bear one fact in mind. There is no telling when a patient would be in pain. You just need to be there for the family,” says Sajini, who coordinates for patients from Royapuram to Manali New Town. In one of her early assignments, the patient required to be given a bath and fed. “An important aspects of the care extended to a patient is to provide them with the food they want. Fulfilling the small desires of a dying person is important to see the person leave peacefully,” she says. Sindu Sunilkumar, former principal of a special school, says the role is not spelt out for a volunteer. “During home visits, we clean the premises if we find it dirty, cut the patient’s nails, spoon-feed them if necessary, buy medicines and most important offer emotional support to make sure they have a peaceful death,” says the Virugambakkam resident, who along with her neighbour does home visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-patients-condition-defines-the-volunteers-role/article36923402.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Blood donation camp held||Hundred units of blood was collected recently at a camp organised by Rotary Club of Chennai Bharathi and Mufaddal Polyclinic, Royapuram. The event was held to commemorate Chehlum, an Islamic observance, and was led by Dawoodi Bohra community’s philanthropic arm, Project Rise. MLA of Royapuram R. Moorthi and A. Ravindran, District Chairman of Rotary Club of Chennai Mitra, took part in the camp. Ravindran has donated blood a hundred times, said a release. Project Rise has been organising vaccination camps along with the Greater Chennai Corporation and have vaccinated 12,000 people till date, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/blood-donation-camp-held/article36923388.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC to further extend care for pruned trees, says Bedi||There is strong indication that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will soon give trees that are pruned a healing touch. In an interaction with The Hindu , GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi announced that the civic body would explore what solutions can be applied to the cut portions of trees to prevent any damage that may result from exposure to opportunistic pests. He pointed out the process would be worked out with the help of the assistant directors for the horticulture department who are currently on deputation to GCC, and operating in its three regions: south, central and north. He also communicated the civic body’s openness to having citizens on board in this matter, by inviting suggestions from them. The commissioner said that the new measure would be an extension of a culture of care towards trees GCC promoted. Even now, “minimal cutting” was the catchphrase; and that only the section that was going to touch the power lines in the event of a gust or any other disturbance could be cut. Bedi underlined that standing instructions to workers on tree-pruning work — now as part of monsoon-preparedness and through the year, as part of regular maintenance — were that pruning should be executed carefully to prevent any harm to the tree, and the cut sections of a branch should be removed immediately. The commissioner also pointed out that the civic body had two specialised tree-pruning machines for each of the three regions. In addition to that, there were all the regular equipment including power saws, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-to-further-extend-care-for-pruned-trees-says-bedi/article36923397.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu exhibition at Poompuhar||The Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Limited, popularly known as Poompuhar, is conducting an exhibition-cum-sale of ‘Kolu Toys’ till October 20 at 108, Anna Salai. Figures of of Gods and Goddesses and other festival set figures made out of clay, papier mache, terracotta, marble dust, Kolkatta clay, white marble stone, wood, cloth dolls will be displayed. Sets of Dasavatharam, Vinayagar, Ashtalakshmi, Sangeetha Mummoorthigal and Mamallapuram are some the others in the collection. A discount of 10% is being offered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-exhibition-at-poompuhar/article36923390.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Give those trees to the wood doctor||Ornithologist V Santharam spells out two factors that enable the black-rumped flameback to “adopt” a patch. 1. “Leave the odd large old tree that is dead or have dead branches, provided it is not a hazard to passersby. Obviously, such a tree should be in a space that people do not venture into. Woodpeckers require such large trees , especially the black-rumped flameback, as they enable to drill a nest with minimal effort.” 2. Besides,the bird needs an adequate stand of healthy trees to meet it insect-dominated diet plan. “The structure of the tree and barks are very important. In some cases, the bark is very smooth, as in eucalyptus trees. There are not many ridges. They do go on eucalyptus trees, but it is not convenient for them. In some of the native trees such as neem and tamarind, the bark is furrowed and harbour insects in plenty. Woodpeckers find it convenient to hunt for insects there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/give-those-trees-to-the-wood-doctor/article36923396.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36923393.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The unkindest cut of all||The countdown for the north-east monsoon having begun, local-body administrations must be on a tree-pruning spree. The blow has to be dealt. The cuts serve a larger good. The unkindest cut of all however is to walk away without binding the “wounds”. “When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter. The cut sections would have to be covered with wax or some kind of a sheet that prevents water from entering and creating holes that would give these borers, which are larvae of certain insects, a foothold. From there, a lot of things can happen. Repeated borer infestations can weaken a tree and cause it to fall. These trees can dry up or die,” says D Narasimhan, member of the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board. As the process of decay happens unnoticed over a lengthy passage of time, the plague afflicting trees with branches exposed from pruning goes unaddressed. Botanists and horticulturists agree that the process of borer infestation can be triggered by any form of injury to the tree. It is for this reason that the practice of nailing boards on trees is frowned upon. However, oddly enough, not securing and treating pruned sections with pest-control solutions rarely makes it to the radar. K Rajamani, professor and head of floriculture and medicinal crops at TNAU Coimbatore, spotlights the fact that when a tree has suffered any form of injury — a catchall that includes cuts resulting from pruning exercises — dealing with borers would require elaborate measures chalked up by an entomologist, and even then, control of the situation can prove frustratingly elusive. Trees can be plagued by fungal as well as pest infestation, but the striking distinction between the two lies in their diagnosis. Narasimhan elaborates: “Fungal infection is caused by a group of fungi called wood rot fungi which can affect the trunk even without a cut. Fungal infections are also a threat, but they can be detected. Insect borers go inside and damage the core of the trunk, undetected.” As a matter of best practice, the pruned section needs to be protected, says Rajamani, adding that the least that can be done is using readily available fungicidal solutions. “Fytolan, blue copper and bavistin are chemicals used as fungicide and are easily available. Just two grams of any of these chemicals in a bit of water will make a paste that can be applied to the cut portion,” Rajamani explains. K Raghavendra Rao, an organic farmer who has consulted for tree groups like Nizhal and even briefly ran a tree clinic many years ago, brings an organic perspective to the question. “The cutting has to be carried out without the branch breaking at the joint. On the flat surface, organic biocontrol fungicide and pesticide should be applied. The paste of pseudomonas and trichoderma can be mixed and applied to the cut portions. Pseudomonas will take care of fungi and trichoderma, insect pests. If the cost and availability of these solutions are a concerns, the easiest option would be to go in for copper oxychloride, which serves as fungicide, and lime, which can keep insect-pests at bay,” explains Raghavendra. While injuries can raise the risk of borer attacks in any tree, ageing trees are more susceptible to them. Raghavendra believes “older trees — those that are 25 to 30 years old and above — can be notified and take care of”. “Coconut trees are commonly infested with borers, with rhinozeros weevil — black-coloured with horns — being the agent of destruction. This weevil is commonly found in Chennai. It damages the leaf axils and feed on the newly emerging fronds in coconut trees,” says Rajamani. Raghavendra makes his observation: “Weevils are a big problem — when weevil grubs get in behind the bark, they can eat into the tree quietly unnoticed.” Trees suffer health complications that usually result from extraneous factors, and Shobha Menon, founder-trustee of tree NGO Nizhal, believes a tree health management plan has to be drawn up, whereby trees regularly receive “health check-ups”. Says Shobha: “We have been asking the local-body officials that we have to have a sensitive tree health management plan. We are looking at green and living infrastructure to be maintained. Trees give back to us in so many wonderful ways, and the least we can do is ensure they stay healthy and continue this generosity.”  When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-unkindest-cut-of-all/article36923446.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiac surgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||Borers are like Macavity the Mystery Cat whose presence is felt only by the visible results of their hidden and unsettling behaviour. They are mysteriously absent from the scene of crime. Tree branches may dry up and fall, suggesting an insidious process within. Larvae of certain insects, borers operate concealed and therefore the blame cannot be laid confidently at these unseen larvae’s prolegs. Over a decade ago, Dr Janardhana Reddy found trees at his farm display telltale signs of borer-infestation. Due to the regular lack of clarity about whether and where they are nestling, measures to check borers are usually stabs in the dark. With the extent of borer-driven damage remaining unknown, one cannot be sure if the damage control exercise is adequate to the danger posed by them. As a cardiac surgeon, Dr Janardhana is accustomed to working with certainties, made possible by advanced imaging technologies. He had an Eureka moment, and before doubts could strangulate the idea, like wild creepers do hapless plants, he acted upon it. He started treating the trees as if they were a part of a human body that can be subjected to imaging studies. From trees suspected to be infested with borers, small and relevant branches — two-and-half feet long and three to four inches in diameter — would be removed and put through a flurry of xrays (dental xRays). CT and MRI scans were also run on these specimens. A series of 16 xRays on a specimen log of tree, taken over a period of time, showed the borers grow and leave, shares Dr. Janardhana, who is Chief Cardiovascular Surgeon at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram. The doctor underlines the effectiveness of MRI scans in detailing the presence of borers. He found moringa oleifera (drumstick) tree to be particularly susceptible to borer-infestation, and the coconut and mango trees were far behind. Tiny notches on the surface of coconut trees may indicate borer activity, the doctor adds. Mango trees are known to an easy target for borer infestions, and he discloses that around 25 years ago he had studied borers in the mango trees through cut branches, with the help of farmers. By using imaging technology to study these pests, he was only building upon an already deeply ensconced interest. The doctor discloses how he created presentation of his studies and placed it before people in the thick of tree care. On what benefits can accrue from such imaging studies, D Narasimhan, botanist and member of Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board notes that knowing the extent of damage and which section of the tree is infested can make for a targetted treatment plan. He says: “Insecticide can be injected into appropriate sections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiac-surgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923444.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Free hospice care unit finds a new address||Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) recently relocated its free hospice services to Villivakkam, bringing to a close four years of service from a familiar address in Sholavaram. In a journey that started in 2014, CPPC has moved campus twice. What began as a volunteering initiative at the Oncology Ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with the professional support of three nurses, would in 2017 start functioning from Sholavaram as a full-fledged facility with in-patient pain management and relief through what it called ‘Abhayam’. The terminally-ill patients being cared for at the unit were abandoned by their family members or had none who could take care of them. Its flagship initiative is offering free service at the doorstep of the terminally-ill. In seven years, CPPC has reportedly reached out to 4000 people with the support of its volunteers. “Except for the health care professionals, drivers, administrative staff and cooks, CPPC consists of volunteers. Of the 200 resident-volunteers registered with us, around 50 help us with field support,” says P Prakash, secretary of CPPC who works with Integral Coach Factory. “In 2015, we got an ambulance through donation and that made doorstep service easier,” says Prakash. The following year, CPPC received one more ambulance. “We had 180-200 patients in our database in the early years and we could make at least two visits a month to these homes,” says Prakash. A few key initiatives that has helped the non-profit be on its feet include empowering volunteers through workshops and trainings and the way its mobilises funds. “We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares,” says P T Ali, one of the founders and an entrepreneur. Families facing financial strain are offered monetary assistance. “If the patient is having financial problems at home or needs to fund a family member’s education, we try to help them with crowd-funding,” says Ali. Besides the medical personnel who handle the medical aspect of hospice care, volunteers take up a variety of roles including locating needy patients, spending time with the terminally ill and fundraising. Says Ali, “The idea is to interact with the patient and their family to bring a little happiness into their lives.” Donation boxes Donation boxes are kept at tea shops and lodges to support CPPC. “Around 300 tea shops in Chennai have donation boxes, which are an important source of funding. Besides, people contribute on a monthly basis,” says 70-year-old C K Gangadharan, advisor and a resident of Triplicane who does home care in Mylapore and surrounding neighbourhoods. He says CPPC has a convenor for every area in Chennai who is the point of contact. The Kerala model Chennai Pain and Palliative Centre (CPPC) has been inspired by Kerela-based Pain and Palliative Care Society (PPCS) with its community-based hospice care. PPCS — founded by Dr M R Rajagopal and Dr Suresh Kumar (now Director, WHO Collaborating Centre for Community Participation in Palliative care) — at the Institute of Palliative Medicine, Government Medical College in Kozhikode in 1993, is an exemplar of “Neighbourhood Networks in Palliative Care”, an alternative to institutional, hospital-based hospice care. “The model is popular in Kerala where palliative care centres are run by community-based organisations and NGOs,” says Ali. The Tamil Nadu government has launched ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, a ‘doorstep healthcare’ initiative that eliminates the need for patients to visit hospitals for treating non-communicable diseases. KP Suresh Babu, founder-trustee, says with the support from civil society groups the model can be taken to other districts. For details on how to volunteer, visit chennaipainandpalliativecare.org  We are all trained to help reduce the mental and physical agony that a dying patient is going through, and it begins with showing them that there is someone who cares||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-hospice-care-unit-finds-a-new-address/article36923452.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden blooms out of a ramshackle crematorium||Instead of cribbing over his workplace, the crematorium at Aaduthotti in Saidapet, which was nothing short of an eyesore, Jeganathan B gave it a new lease of life. On October 1 last, the 28-year-old started his first job with Urbaser Sumeet Facilities Limited as a unit officer. Then, his duty was to manage the conservancy operations in Saidapet, Adyar, Kotturpuram, and Raja Annamalaipuram. His job had nothing to do with the Greater Chennai Corporation-run crematorium. It was just a place designated by the Corporation for the assembly of conservancy workers in the morning and evening. However, Jaganathan was drawn to the unkempt crematorium which was overrun with vegetation and littered with all kinds of waste, including plastic items and garbage. He felt impelled to set things right there. And he did this with the support of a few conservancy workers. Due to his efforts in the last one year, a garden has been raised “It was all possible because of Jerusalem Samuel, the supervisor, and some conservancy workers who reside near the the crematorium. We used to stay back after our duty hours, that is after 3 p.m., and spend some time cleaning the place and started raising a garden. Now we have planted papaya, jackfruit, neem, coconuts and a few more trees,” says Jaganathan who resides at Triplicane. The commerce graduate was earlier a boxing coach. “Next, I have plans to raise a garden in the crematorium on Guru Nanak Salai in Velachery. That is again another assembly point for the conservancy workers. There, battery-operated vehicles are also parked,” says Jaganathan. Now, he is in charge of the conservancy operations in Maduvankarai, Aadambakkkam and Saidpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garden-blooms-out-of-a-ramshackle-crematorium/article36923442.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A natural pest control agent?||With its reputation as “woodworker” preceding it, a woodpecker may carry blood on its head that it never spilt. The uninformed and superficial observer may take every tap of its beak on wood for hole-making, territory-expanding self-aggrandisement. Having wrapped ts head neatly around the 80-20 pareto principle, the woodpecker makes its job easier by seeking out dead or partly weakened trees to drill its nest in, and invariably leaves the hole behind as a hand-me-down for other bird species to occupy and raise their young. More about this “altruism” later. With almost every other tap, the woodpecker is prospecting for insects that occupy the furrows and crevices of the bark. It can also look for insects in damaged sections of trees, and may in the process even get rid of certain tree-boring insects what larvae can damage trees unseen. ‘Borer’ signifies one stage in the development cycle of these insects, when as larvae, they do the damage. The black-rumped flameback occurs commonly in Chennai and surrounding areas, even in urban patches marked by a thick stand of trees, and a familiar snapshot is that of the bird at its post, diligently pecking away at a coconut tree. Scour eBird for black-rumped flameback sightings in Chennai, and the effort would dredge up addresses that connote the hubbub of city life. However, a black-rumped flameback sighting in urban spaces is hardly effortless, and there are obvious advantages in trying to turn this situation around. We will get to the how of it in a while. “There are a lot of studies in different places in the past that have shown that woodpeckers can control insect infestation of trees to some degree in temperate regions. But now, despite greater diversity of tree life, tropical regions are commonly hit by pest infestations on account of monoculture,” remarks ornithologist V Santharam, who has himself conducted an elaborate study of the eight woodpecker species found in the western ghats. While conceding that woodpeckers make short work of insects they find on tree surfaces, including exposed parts of cut branches, he is not certain if they would go to the trouble of drilling to get at borer-insects, actually their larvae. “Talking of insects that bore into wood, you need a woodpecker species that feeds on insects by making a hole. Woodpeckers have long, sticky tongues that they can insert into those galleries and grab insects. The larvae of borer-insects make holes as they go in, and woodpeckers may slightly enlarge the hole made by the borers and stick the tongue in and get them. When I studied the eight woodpecker species in the Western ghats at Peechi wildlife sanctuary, I found that many of the woodpeckers were reluctant to dig into the wood. To drill into the tree, they have to expend lot more energy pecking at the tree. Most of the time, they were feeding on insects found on the surface. They can get at the termites by digging a little bit and slightly disturbing the gallery. The ants are similarly taken. When food is available in plenty on the surface, why would they want to drill holes to reach for borers? Of course, if the borer-larvae are just under the barks, the woodpeckers will surely take them. Woodpeckers sometimes take insects that can harm trees and are therefore known as wood doctors.” The shape of the beak is a factor deciding how far a woodpecker would go for a meal. “The beak structure would to some extent tell you whether the bird is capable of making that hole. The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor. Out of the eight species I studied, two — the greater golden-backed woodpecker and the black woodpecker — were spending more time getting things done inside the tree and not just on the surface.” While fungi infestation is not good news for a tree, it certainly is for a woodpecker. “Many of the woodpeckers use trees that are infested with fungi so that boring a hole becomes much easier. Once woodpeckers make a hole in a dead tree — as decay happens slowly, the tree would be standing for 10 to 15 years — it is available for other hole-nesting birds like mynahs and parakeets and barbets. In my study, I noticed that 40 p.c. of the birds found in that forest were hole nesters and they depended on cavities created by woodpeckers for nesting.”  The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-natural-pest-control-agent/article36923449.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyperlocal commerce driven by a snail and the monsoon||At a fish market in Karambakkam, Porur, apple snails lie in clumps on a sheet. When the north-east monsoon sets in, there would be more such sheets topped with more clumps of this freshwater mollusc. It would drive a miniature huperlocal economy in an unobtrusive way. During the monsoon, when the locally occuring apple snail pila globosa be found in plentiful numbers, the sale would often not make the distance to the market. In areas on the fringes of Chennai and those technically falling in Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts that are dotted with lakes and paddyfields, the catch and the sale would be swift, not going beyond the spot. In many cases, particularly in paddy fields, the apple snails would be out there for the asking. Pests that can damage the crops, farmers would either collect them for the table, or may only be glad to see them cleared by others, the arrangement working out to the benefit of both parties. It serves as a form of a barter system. “In paddyfields overrun with pila globosa , the paddy crop would tilt and start floating, because it will graze on the shaft under the water. Local farmers would take a bucket, go all along the paddy field and collect the apple snails. The ricefield crab, also edible, would also snip the root and eat. They would collect both in the same bucket and take them home,” shares naturalist and ecology teacher M Yuvan, and recalls how “the non-teaching staff at our school in the outskirts of Chennai would collect it from the paddy fields, put it in a bucket and take it home.” Even before the monsoon — when it is said to be out of season — pila globosa that are caught from lakes is popularly-priced, helping those whom cost is a huge constaint. At the Karambakkam-Porur market, each clump of apple snails, numbering anywhere between 40 and 50, was selling at Rs. 100, and this was in September-end. “It is an economically viable option for many people. Apple snails caught from freshwater waterbodies would be brought to the fish markets and sold along with the fish and other seafood caught at marine environments,” observes Yuvan. Apple snails are also brought to the Nocchi Kuppam fish market. He underlines that during the monsoon, when pila globosa would emerge out of its hibernation in the soil, seeing them would be easier than rolling off a log, with even puddles serving as their hangout. “ Pila Globosa is a freshwater generalist found in any freshwater wetland. You can see it in typha jheels. In October and November, it would be found everywhere. It would be grazing in puddles. There is a cattle tank near the Perungudi railway station that is enlosed where I find it every time I gothere.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hyperlocal-commerce-driven-by-a-snail-and-the-monsoon/article36923437.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||Rajakilpakkam resident Vedic Ravi’s Navaratri invitation to friends is warm, but does not shy away from spelling out “the pandemic code”. “We would love to have you over to see our kolu, take thamulam and prasadham, but as we are still amidst the pandemic, we have listed a few precautions for everyone's safety and wellness.” Besides reminders on masking up and maintaining social distance, the invite urges those with any telltale symptoms to avoid going to gatherings and have themselves tested immediately. “As you enter our home, kindly wash your hands and legs or use sanitiser kept outside our home” Invited families are required to inform the host about the date and time of their visit so that crowding can be avoided. It does not seek to learn about the guest’s vaccination status but makes an important point – “If you are fully vaccinated it is good for yourself and society.” The invite ends with: “We are proud to inform you that our family is fully vaccinated.” While some families are baulking at inviting friends home to see the kolu arrangement, there are those who are making the nine-day festival a space to highlight importance of vaccination, among other things. Rani Sairam has included vaccination theme in her arrangement. It shows a “Vaccinated Family” with a child attending online classes and father working, both masked and maintaining social distancing. “I was a teacher for many years, so I was particular that my display had a takeaway for children. I did not find kolu dolls with masks and so, I created them by improvisinguponexisting sets. As schools are opening up and children have to maintain social distance in class, I have created a separate section at my home that highlights it,” says Rani, a resident of Vadapalani. As she lives in a 50-unit apartment complex, Rani has five different families come over every day to see her kolu alangarams. This year, her thamboolam pack comes with yet another addition. Apart from hand sanitiser, mask, gloves, there’s a short write-up tagged to the set that talks about vaccination. “I have not made it wordy or tried to be preachy but wanted to create awareness among those who are yet to take the vaccine that it is important,” says Rani. Ravi, who is also conducting a kolu contest in and around the neighbourhood, says it’s important that families celebrating Navaratri take utmost care while inviting guests. Asking someone their vaccination status might be an uncomfortable question but through the invite people can send across a message that it is the need of the hour. “We usually invite 200 people over for kolu , but this time our guest list has been trimmed to 50-60 families,” says Ravi. He says the Sembakkam municipality has placed “vaccine stickers” at homes where all members have taken the jab and this is an important thing to watch out for this festival season. At the home of SKPB Gopinath, managing director of Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks, a thermal checking instrument will scan guests before allowing them in. “The last three days of the festival is when we usually have maximum people coming home and when dinner is also served. This time, we have restricted the guest list and decided not to serve dinner but at the same time we have made sure all the rituals that are part of the festival are being observed,” says Gopinath. Some gated communities that are opening their clubhouses for organising Navaratri events are regulating the flow of residents. At SSPDL Crescent in Kelambakkam, every block is allotted a particular day when its members can make their visit . “We have five blocks and we want only 10-15 people from each wing visiting the club house where the arrangements are displayed,” says Manju Pandit, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923451.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam gets bigger||The Hindu Group’s Kolu Kondattam is back, but on a different dimension being organised in four cities — Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Open for residents across Chennai, ‘Kolu Kondattam 2021’ requires participants to send a picture of their Kolu display along with the contestant's image. Each picture should not exceed 3MB. Participants can up their chances of winning by having a pack of Mangaldeep Agarbatti in their Kolu display photos. The kolu display photos can be uploaded on https://bit.ly/KOLU21 or Scan the QR Code. Last date for Registrations is 10th October 2021. The Kolu will be judged based on the theme and description. Description should include details of the Kolu arrangement and the elements of creativity that went into it. Our jury members will pay a visit to the top 25 shortlisted participants to choose the final three Winners of the contest. There is the possibility of a surprise visit from celebrities. The contest would be conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Covid-appropriate behaviour would be followed by all visiting the houses. The Kolu Kondattam 2021 prize details are: State wnner (overall, cash component) — first prize: 25,000; second prize: 15,000; and third prize: 10,000. To know more about city-specific prize details, visit the microsite. For more details, call Chennai: 9841298938. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances is the title sponsor. The event is powered by Mangaldeep. It is organised in association with Naga Food Products. SSVM Institutions is the education partner; Nippon Paint, the colour partner; Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. Associate sponsors are Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s. Gift sponsors are Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Stilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-gets-bigger/article36923432.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Jeeva Park walkers’ group revives old initiative||The Jeeva Park Walkers and Joggers Association has revived the practice of honouring a fitness enthusiast every week. For many years, we have been organising various activities at Jeeva Park, T Nagar to strengthen the bond among fitness-walkers and also to motivate each other to stick to their walking plan. Due to the pandemic, there was a lull in these activities. As a majority of our members are senior citizens, they had to find new spaces to walk, and they did — some walked on their terrace, some took to the street and some others to the treadmill. Only in the last few months is our group walking again in the park, after ensuring they had taken the two doses of the vaccine. So, we revived the old initiative of honouring a health enthusiast. In 2016, when we started this practice, Mrs Jamuna was the first recipient of this honour. A team lead by Rajagopal, Gupta and Balaraman would select the individuals. There is a tree under whose shade we conduct this felicitation ceremony. Recipients of the honour in the last few months include Kavitha Suresh, Manish, Jayashree Chari, Akila Srinivasan, Nanda Vasudev and Dhakshayani. We believe each of these individuals is creating a positive impact in the minds of the walkers — by turning up at the park at a fixed time, diligently exercising and crossing new milestones. AV Balaraman, who is among the ‘fastesest walkers’ in the group, brings up a “walking-raincoat”, one he has reserved for his walks at the park during the rainy season. “Without a brisk walk, I do not get sleep,” says this resident of Nathamuni Street. Radha Venkatesan treads 20 minutes walking from her home to the park and spends 30 to 45 minutes walking alone. “In the last 20 years, if my sugar levels are under control, it is because of the regular walks I take,” says 73-year-old Radha. Not everyone honoured under this initiative is a member of our walking club.  (K C Srinivasa Desikan is a member of Jeeva Park Walkers and Joggers Association and a resident of T Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/jeeva-park-walkers-group-revives-old-initiative/article36923430.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A word of praise and a request from Lambert Nagar residents||Kudos to the Valasarawakkam staff and officials at the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) for prompt restoration of electricity on September 25, after the transformer on First Main Road in Lambert Nagar in Virugambakkam went off in a flash of light and sound. In the past, such cases had taken at least a day to be resolved, but not on this day. Power was restored four hours later, around 11 p.m. We request Tangedco to provide underground electricity cable work in Lambert Nagar, which would enable us to grow tall avenue trees. Freddy R Jayapalan is the president of Lambert Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Virugambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-word-of-praise-and-a-request-from-lambert-nagar-residents/article36923434.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating a market for products by the differently-abled||It is a busy time of the year for organisations and institutions that serve adults with disabilities. Some of them are racing against a deadline to meet the festival requirement from customers, which includes designing torans , diyas , eco-friendly bags, potlis and decorative candles. At Rehoboth, a free home for the mentally-challenged destitute women, an average of 100 products are made every day – this is a steep rise from earlier months when 50 are done. This centre at Paraniputhur, near Porur, is home to more than 150 destitute women, so it has the advantage of working on an order request from a customer on a need basis. Of the 53 young adults on the rolls of the vocational unit at the Spastic Society of Tamilnadu (SPASTN), currently 10 who are fully vaccinated come to the centre on a staggered basis. Others have a parent collecting the materials from the institute and work on them from their home. Shopping for products made by the differently-abled may be a gentle reminder to practise inclusiveness and for the producer, it is a big step toward being self-reliant and independent. However, the journey for those working to empower such adults is not easy. Sumita Verghese, project coordinator, Rehoboth, says they look at the vocational skills picked up by their residents as “occupational therapy.” “Making profits selling products made by our residents is not our motive. Our larger aim is to mainstream these women,” says Sumita. She says fingers of these residents are not very deft and it is only with time that they improve. Most of these institutions with vocational units ask for ample time before an order can be delivered. At V-Excel Educational Trust, paper bag making is an everyday activity for the students in their two vocational units at Sastri Nagar and Mylapore. “But most of them have their mood swings and either do not turn up at the unit or refuse to work. So it is important to give them their space and, if need be, show them other skills to break the monotony,” says Charumathi Sriram, vocational coordinator, V-Excel. Sometimes letting them know where their work goes and the difference they bring to lives can generate new ideas. “In September, we took our students to Kuralagam, which is a big showroom for Navarathri shopping as we wanted to give them an experience of where their products go after they are made, how it is displayed at stores and help them understand shoppers’ preferences,” says Charumathi. Capacity building Non-profits like Special Needs Empowerment Hub (SNEH) and GiftAbled ensure products made by the differently-abled find right buyers. They help bring orders, suggest innovative ideas that are sought-after in the market, play on the strength of each institution and even carry out trials on the products before launching them. This is a big boost for these vocational units as Sumita says they neither have the resource nor the time to market the products. “L&T was the first corporate that supported our project and since then the support has come by word of mouth,” says Sumita. LV Jayashree, director, SPASTN, says one drawback most institutions with vocational units faced was they were not market-oriented and were not in a position to create market. “We work with SNEH and they drive product development for us, guiding us design a range of products targetting different segments of people for various occasions,” says Jayashree. Financial empowerment Jayashree says making them economically independent is an important step towards empowering the neuro-diverse individuals. “We are looking at bringing a stipend component once pandemic improves and all our students are back to the campus, for which we will have to come out with a workable model so that one is compensated based on his/her input and production capacity,” says Jayashree. V-Excel offer a small stipend to students involved in working at their units. Anuradha Mahesh of SNEH, a not-for-profit that works to bring institutions for special needs together and create employment opportunities, says with market slowly opening up, there are plenty of opportunities that can be tapped. “During the pandemic, we saw demand for items that employees need while working from home. Now, it is corporate gifting time and we need to leverage the goodness of the season,” says Anuradha. Visit snehindia.com or call 9840076322 to know how you could partner with them as a corporate, special school or as an an individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-a-market-for-products-by-the-differently-abled/article36923450.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Unused badminton court at Nungambakkam park irks visitors||The badminton court at Greater Chennai Corporation’s Independence Day Park in Nungambakkam is out of bounds for visitors. The watchman at the park points out that a GCC official has instructed him to ensure the court remains unused to protect the saplings planted within it. Why should saplings be planted in a space earmarked for playing badminton? I would like to remind GCC officials that during the State Assembly election campaign early this year, Dr N Ezhilan, now the MLA of Thousand Lights Assembly constituency, played shuttle with us on this court and assured that the facility would be improved. But the Corporation is keeping people from using it. N. Ravikkumaar is a resident of Nungambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/unused-badminton-court-at-nungambakkam-park-irks-visitors/article36923441.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Desiltsing exercise skips drains in interior roads’||Following the recent showers, sewage overflows from the manholes at Kaveri Rangan Nagar in Saligramam. It indicates that the sewage drains need to be desilted. As the north-east monsoon is fast approaching, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) is cleaning the sewage drains. But the exercise is restricted to main roads — KK Salai and Abu Salai being two striking examples — and not in the interior roads such as Indira Gandhi Street, Durai Arasan Street, MGR Street, Bharatiyar Street, Pillayar Kovil Street, Navaneethammal Street and Hare Krishna Street. NS Ramachandran is the secretary of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram, a residents’ welfare association in Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/desiltsing-exercise-skips-drains-in-interior-roads/article36923436.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The patient’s condition defines the volunteer’s role||Volunteers with Chennai Pain and Palliative Care have inspirational stories to share, a majority of which is about caring for strangers as if they were family. There are also a few stories of volunteers caring for their own flesh and blood — relatives who are terminally ill. Vijayan Kanayi was attending to a terminally-ill cancer patient at the latter’s home in Pattabiram when this reporter called him recently. Vijyan explained that the 43-year-old patient had to be brought to the hospice centre at Villivakkam in an ambulance. Vijayan, an employee of Heavy Vehicles Factory, says: “I work on different shifts, which enables me to adjust my time, including my weekly off, which I set aside for a home visit.” Vijayan underlines that there are 20 patients he is committed to taking care of. When homemaker Sajini Vijayakumar joined as a volunteer more than four years ago, she had specified that 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. would be her preferred timings. However, over the years she got so involved with the centre’s work that Sajini would not say no even if a request came late in the night. “Once you volunteer for palliative care, you bear one fact in mind. There is no telling when a patient would be in pain. You just need to be there for the family,” says Sajini, who coordinates for patients from Royapuram to Manali New Town. In one of her early assignments, the patient required to be given a bath and fed. “An important aspects of the care extended to a patient is to provide them with the food they want. Fulfilling the small desires of a dying person is important to see the person leave peacefully,” she says. Sindu Sunilkumar, former principal of a special school, says the role is not spelt out for a volunteer. “During home visits, we clean the premises if we find it dirty, cut the patient’s nails, spoon-feed them if necessary, buy medicines and most important offer emotional support to make sure they have a peaceful death,” says the Virugambakkam resident, who along with her neighbour does home visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-patients-condition-defines-the-volunteers-role/article36923453.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC to further extend care for pruned trees, says Bedi||There is strong indication that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will soon give trees that are pruned a healing touch. In an interaction with The Hindu , GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi announced that the civic body would explore what solutions can be applied to the cut portions of trees to prevent any damage that may result from exposure to opportunistic pests. He pointed out the process would be worked out with the help of the assistant directors for the horticulture department who are currently on deputation to GCC, and operating in its three regions: south, central and north. He also communicated the civic body’s openness to having citizens on board in this matter, by inviting suggestions from them. The commissioner said that the new measure would be an extension of a culture of care towards trees GCC promoted. Even now, “minimal cutting” was the catchphrase; and that only the section that was going to touch the power lines in the event of a gust or any other disturbance could be cut. Bedi underlined that standing instructions to workers on tree-pruning work — now as part of monsoon-preparedness and through the year, as part of regular maintenance — were that pruning should be executed carefully to prevent any harm to the tree, and the cut sections of a branch should be removed immediately. The commissioner also pointed out that the civic body had two specialised tree-pruning machines for each of the three regions. In addition to that, there were all the regular equipment including power saws, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-to-further-extend-care-for-pruned-trees-says-bedi/article36923448.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Give those trees to the wood doctor||Ornithologist V Santharam spells out two factors that enable the black-rumped flameback to “adopt” a patch. 1. “Leave the odd large old tree that is dead or have dead branches, provided it is not a hazard to passersby. Obviously, such a tree should be in a space that people do not venture into. Woodpeckers require such large trees , especially the black-rumped flameback, as they enable to drill a nest with minimal effort.” 2. Besides,the bird needs an adequate stand of healthy trees to meet it insect-dominated diet plan. “The structure of the tree and barks are very important. In some cases, the bark is very smooth, as in eucalyptus trees. There are not many ridges. They do go on eucalyptus trees, but it is not convenient for them. In some of the native trees such as neem and tamarind, the bark is furrowed and harbour insects in plenty. Woodpeckers find it convenient to hunt for insects there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/give-those-trees-to-the-wood-doctor/article36923447.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A colourful start to the academic session||Classrooms in three government schools are gearing up to welcome students with an added zeal thanks to an initiative by NGO Thuvakkam. The drab walls of the classrooms are not only getting a fresh coat of paint but are also being coloured with paintings that reflect themes on environment and social messages. Thuvakkam with the support of HCL has adopted Government Model Higher Secondary School at Nandanam, Government Adi Dravida School at Avadi and Chennai High School at Sholinganallur for the next one year where it will be carrying out various initiatives. Paintings the classrooms being the first on its agenda. Recently, the non-profit organised a 14-hour Paint-a-thon and clean-up after dark at the school in Nandanam, where volunteers from HCL and local volunteers also took part. “For all our clean-ups we post messages on social media inviting interested volunteers to come and help us, so we had 40 people come forward. A 14-year-old was one of the youngest participant,” says Krishnakumar, founder, Thuvakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-colourful-start-to-the-academic-session/article36923443.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||battered arcot road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/battered-arcot-road/article36923439.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The unkindest cut of all||The countdown for the north-east monsoon having begun, local-body administrations must be on a tree-pruning spree. The blow has to be dealt. The cuts serve a larger good. The unkindest cut of all however is to walk away without binding the “wounds”. “When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter. The cut sections would have to be covered with wax or some kind of a sheet that prevents water from entering and creating holes that would give these borers, which are larvae of certain insects, a foothold. From there, a lot of things can happen. Repeated borer infestations can weaken a tree and cause it to fall. These trees can dry up or die,” says D Narasimhan, member of the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board. As the process of decay happens unnoticed over a lengthy passage of time, the plague afflicting trees with branches exposed from pruning goes unaddressed. Botanists and horticulturists agree that the process of borer infestation can be triggered by any form of injury to the tree. It is for this reason that the practice of nailing boards on trees is frowned upon. However, oddly enough, not securing and treating pruned sections with pest-control solutions rarely makes it to the radar. K Rajamani, professor and head of floriculture and medicinal crops at TNAU Coimbatore, spotlights the fact that when a tree has suffered any form of injury — a catchall that includes cuts resulting from pruning exercises — dealing with borers would require elaborate measures chalked up by an entomologist, and even then, control of the situation can prove frustratingly elusive. Trees can be plagued by fungal as well as pest infestation, but the striking distinction between the two lies in their diagnosis. Narasimhan elaborates: “Fungal infection is caused by a group of fungi called wood rot fungi which can affect the trunk even without a cut. Fungal infections are also a threat, but they can be detected. Insect borers go inside and damage the core of the trunk, undetected.” As a matter of best practice, the pruned section needs to be protected, says Rajamani, adding that the least that can be done is using readily available fungicidal solutions. “Fytolan, blue copper and bavistin are chemicals used as fungicide and are easily available. Just two grams of any of these chemicals in a bit of water will make a paste that can be applied to the cut portion,” Rajamani explains. K Raghavendra Rao, an organic farmer who has consulted for tree groups like Nizhal and even briefly ran a tree clinic many years ago, brings an organic perspective to the question. “The cutting has to be carried out without the branch breaking at the joint. On the flat surface, organic biocontrol fungicide and pesticide should be applied. The paste of pseudomonas and trichoderma can be mixed and applied to the cut portions. Pseudomonas will take care of fungi and trichoderma, insect pests. If the cost and availability of these solutions are a concerns, the easiest option would be to go in for copper oxychloride, which serves as fungicide, and lime, which can keep insect-pests at bay,” explains Raghavendra. While injuries can raise the risk of borer attacks in any tree, ageing trees are more susceptible to them. Raghavendra believes “older trees — those that are 25 to 30 years old and above — can be notified and take care of”. “Coconut trees are commonly infested with borers, with rhinozeros weevil — black-coloured with horns — being the agent of destruction. This weevil is commonly found in Chennai. It damages the leaf axils and feed on the newly emerging fronds in coconut trees,” says Rajamani. Raghavendra makes his observation: “Weevils are a big problem — when weevil grubs get in behind the bark, they can eat into the tree quietly unnoticed.” Trees suffer health complications that usually result from extraneous factors, and Shobha Menon, founder-trustee of tree NGO Nizhal, believes a tree health management plan has to be drawn up, whereby trees regularly receive “health check-ups”. Says Shobha: “We have been asking the local-body officials that we have to have a sensitive tree health management plan. We are looking at green and living infrastructure to be maintained. Trees give back to us in so many wonderful ways, and the least we can do is ensure they stay healthy and continue this generosity.”  When trees are pruned and the cut sections are not covered properly till the wounds heal, the door is being left open for borers to enter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-unkindest-cut-of-all/article36923423.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiac surgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||Borers are like Macavity the Mystery Cat whose presence is felt only by the visible results of their hidden and unsettling behaviour. They are mysteriously absent from the scene of crime. Tree branches may dry up and fall, suggesting an insidious process within. Larvae of certain insects, borers operate concealed and therefore the blame cannot be laid confidently at these unseen larvae’s prolegs. Over a decade ago, Dr Janardhana Reddy found trees at his farm display telltale signs of borer-infestation. Due to the regular lack of clarity about whether and where they are nestling, measures to check borers are usually stabs in the dark. With the extent of borer-driven damage remaining unknown, one cannot be sure if the damage control exercise is adequate to the danger posed by them. As a cardiac surgeon, Dr Janardhana is accustomed to working with certainties, made possible by advanced imaging technologies. He had an Eureka moment, and before doubts could strangulate the idea, like wild creepers do hapless plants, he acted upon it. He started treating the trees as if they were a part of a human body that can be subjected to imaging studies. From trees suspected to be infested with borers, small and relevant branches — two-and-half feet long and three to four inches in diameter — would be removed and put through a flurry of xrays (dental xRays). CT and MRI scans were also run on these specimens. A series of 16 xRays on a specimen log of tree, taken over a period of time, showed the borers grow and leave, shares Dr. Janardhana, who is Chief Cardiovascular Surgeon at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram. The doctor underlines the effectiveness of MRI scans in detailing the presence of borers. He found moringa oleifera (drumstick) tree to be particularly susceptible to borer-infestation, and the coconut and mango trees were far behind. Tiny notches on the surface of coconut trees may indicate borer activity, the doctor adds. Mango trees are known to an easy target for borer infestions, and he discloses that around 25 years ago he had studied borers in the mango trees through cut branches, with the help of farmers. By using imaging technology to study these pests, he was only building upon an already deeply ensconced interest. The doctor discloses how he created presentation of his studies and placed it before people in the thick of tree care. On what benefits can accrue from such imaging studies, D Narasimhan, botanist and member of Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board notes that knowing the extent of damage and which section of the tree is infested can make for a targetted treatment plan. He says: “Insecticide can be injected into appropriate sections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiac-surgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923422.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden blooms out of a ramshackle crematorium||Instead of cribbing over his workplace, the crematorium at Aaduthotti in Saidapet, which was nothing short of an eyesore, Jeganathan B gave it a new lease of life. On October 1 last, the 28-year-old started his first job with Urbaser Sumeet Facilities Limited as a unit officer. Then, his duty was to manage the conservancy operations in Saidapet, Adyar, Kotturpuram, and Raja Annamalaipuram. His job had nothing to do with the Greater Chennai Corporation-run crematorium. It was just a place designated by the Corporation for the assembly of conservancy workers in the morning and evening. However, Jaganathan was drawn to the unkempt crematorium which was overrun with vegetation and littered with all kinds of waste, including plastic items and garbage. He felt impelled to set things right there. And he did this with the support of a few conservancy workers. Due to his efforts in the last one year, a garden has been raised “It was all possible because of Jerusalem Samuel, the supervisor, and some conservancy workers who reside near the the crematorium. We used to stay back after our duty hours, that is after 3 p.m., and spend some time cleaning the place and started raising a garden. Now we have planted papaya, jackfruit, neem, coconuts and a few more trees,” says Jaganathan who resides at Triplicane. The commerce graduate was earlier a boxing coach. “Next, I have plans to raise a garden in the crematorium on Guru Nanak Salai in Velachery. That is again another assembly point for the conservancy workers. There, battery-operated vehicles are also parked,” says Jaganathan. Now, he is in charge of the conservancy operations in Maduvankarai, Aadambakkkam and Saidpet.  I have plans to raise a garden at the crematorium on Guru Nanak Salai in Velachery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garden-blooms-out-of-a-ramshackle-crematorium/article36923427.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A natural pest control agent?||With its reputation as “woodworker” preceding it, a woodpecker may carry blood on its head that it never spilt. The uninformed and superficial observer may take every tap of its beak on wood for hole-making, territory-expanding self-aggrandisement. Having wrapped ts head neatly around the 80-20 pareto principle, the woodpecker makes its job easier by seeking out dead or partly weakened trees to drill its nest in, and invariably leaves the hole behind as a hand-me-down for other bird species to occupy and raise their young. More about this “altruism” later. With almost every other tap, the woodpecker is prospecting for insects that occupy the furrows and crevices of the bark. It can also look for insects in damaged sections of trees, and may in the process even get rid of certain tree-boring insects what larvae can damage trees unseen. ‘Borer’ signifies one stage in the development cycle of these insects, when as larvae, they do the damage. The black-rumped flameback occurs commonly in Chennai and surrounding areas, even in urban patches marked by a thick stand of trees, and a familiar snapshot is that of the bird at its post, diligently pecking away at a coconut tree. Scour eBird for black-rumped flameback sightings in Chennai, and the effort would dredge up addresses that connote the hubbub of city life. However, a black-rumped flameback sighting in urban spaces is hardly effortless, and there are obvious advantages in trying to turn this situation around. We will get to the how of it in a while. “There are a lot of studies in different places in the past that have shown that woodpeckers can control insect infestation of trees to some degree in temperate regions. But now, despite greater diversity of tree life, tropical regions are commonly hit by pest infestations on account of monoculture,” remarks ornithologist V Santharam, who has himself conducted an elaborate study of the eight woodpecker species found in the western ghats. While conceding that woodpeckers make short work of insects they find on tree surfaces, including exposed parts of cut branches, he is not certain if they would go to the trouble of drilling to get at borer-insects, actually their larvae. “Talking of insects that bore into wood, you need a woodpecker species that feeds on insects by making a hole. Woodpeckers have long, sticky tongues that they can insert into those galleries and grab insects. The larvae of borer-insects make holes as they go in, and woodpeckers may slightly enlarge the hole made by the borers and stick the tongue in and get them. When I studied the eight woodpecker species in the Western ghats at Peechi wildlife sanctuary, I found that many of the woodpeckers were reluctant to dig into the wood. To drill into the tree, they have to expend lot more energy pecking at the tree. Most of the time, they were feeding on insects found on the surface. They can get at the termites by digging a little bit and slightly disturbing the gallery. The ants are similarly taken. When food is available in plenty on the surface, why would they want to drill holes to reach for borers? Of course, if the borer-larvae are just under the barks, the woodpeckers will surely take them. Woodpeckers sometimes take insects that can harm trees and are therefore known as wood doctors.” The shape of the beak is a factor deciding how far a woodpecker would go for a meal. “The beak structure would to some extent tell you whether the bird is capable of making that hole. The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor. Out of the eight species I studied, two — the greater golden-backed woodpecker and the black woodpecker — were spending more time getting things done inside the tree and not just on the surface.” While fungi infestation is not good news for a tree, it certainly is for a woodpecker. “Many of the woodpeckers use trees that are infested with fungi so that boring a hole becomes much easier. Once woodpeckers make a hole in a dead tree — as decay happens slowly, the tree would be standing for 10 to 15 years — it is available for other hole-nesting birds like mynahs and parakeets and barbets. In my study, I noticed that 40 p.c. of the birds found in that forest were hole nesters and they depended on cavities created by woodpeckers for nesting.”  The black-rumped flameback has a bill that is slightly curved, which can be a limiting factor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-natural-pest-control-agent/article36923426.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Tambaram Sanatorium subway cries for attention||The staircase at both the entrances of the Tambaram Sanatorium subway need to be rebuilt. It is broken and dilapidated. Pedestrians have to exercise caution while climbing up and down the steep staircase. The pedestrian subway comes under the purview of the Southern Railway. “Without much delay, the staircases need to be reconstructed. Because, it is unsafe for senior citizens,” says K. Dayanand, a resident of Chitlapakkam. Constructed across Tambaram Sanatorium railway station, the subway connects Tambaram Sanatorium (West) on Grand Southern Trunk Road and Tambaram Sanatorium (East) on Chitlapakkam Second Main Road. “Due to poor maintenance, the staircases are in bad shape. People can fall down and get injured while climbing up and down the staircases,” says Sam Johnson Abraham, a resident of East Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tambaram-sanatorium-subway-cries-for-attention/article36923414.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||Rajakilpakkam resident Vedic Ravi’s Navaratri invitation to friends is warm, but does not shy away from spelling out “the pandemic code”. “We would love to have you over to see our kolu, take thamulam and prasadham, but as we are still amidst the pandemic, we have listed a few precautions for everyone's safety and wellness.” Besides reminders on masking up and maintaining social distance, the invite urges those with any telltale symptoms to avoid going to gatherings and have themselves tested immediately. “As you enter our home, kindly wash your hands and legs or use sanitiser kept outside our home” Invited families are required to inform the host about the date and time of their visit so that crowding can be avoided. It does not seek to learn about the guest’s vaccination status but makes an important point – “If you are fully vaccinated it is good for yourself and society.” The invite ends with: “We are proud to inform you that our family is fully vaccinated.” While some families are baulking at inviting friends home to see the kolu arrangement, there are those who are making the nine-day festival a space to highlight importance of vaccination, among other things. Rani Sairam has included vaccination theme in her arrangement. It shows a “Vaccinated Family” with a child attending online classes and father working, both masked and maintaining social distancing. “I was a teacher for many years, so I was particular that my display had a takeaway for children. I did not find kolu dolls with masks and so, I created them by improvisinguponexisting sets. As schools are opening up and children have to maintain social distance in class, I have created a separate section at my home that highlights it,” says Rani, a resident of Vadapalani. As she lives in a 50-unit apartment complex, Rani has five different families come over every day to see her kolu alangarams. This year, her thamboolam pack comes with yet another addition. Apart from hand sanitiser, mask, gloves, there’s a short write-up tagged to the set that talks about vaccination. “I have not made it wordy or tried to be preachy but wanted to create awareness among those who are yet to take the vaccine that it is important,” says Rani. Ravi, who is also conducting a kolu contest in and around the neighbourhood, says it’s important that families celebrating Navaratri take utmost care while inviting guests. Asking someone their vaccination status might be an uncomfortable question but through the invite people can send across a message that it is the need of the hour. “We usually invite 200 people over for kolu , but this time our guest list has been trimmed to 50-60 families,” says Ravi. He says the Sembakkam municipality has placed “vaccine stickers” at homes where all members have taken the jab and this is an important thing to watch out for this festival season. At the home of SKPB Gopinath, managing director of Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks, a thermal checking instrument will scan guests before allowing them in. “The last three days of the festival is when we usually have maximum people coming home and when dinner is also served. This time, we have restricted the guest list and decided not to serve dinner but at the same time we have made sure all the rituals that are part of the festival are being observed,” says Gopinath. Some gated communities that are opening their clubhouses for organising Navaratri events are regulating the flow of residents. At SSPDL Crescent in Kelambakkam, every block is allotted a particular day when its members can make their visit . “We have five blocks and we want only 10-15 people from each wing visiting the club house where the arrangements are displayed,” says Manju Pandit, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923428.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyperlocal commerce driven by a snail and the monsoon||At a fish market in Karambakkam, Porur, apple snails lie in clumps on a sheet. When the north-east monsoon sets in, there would be more such sheets topped with more clumps of this freshwater mollusc. It would drive a miniature huperlocal economy in an unobtrusive way. During the monsoon, when the locally occuring apple snail pila globosa be found in plentiful numbers, the sale would often not make the distance to the market. In areas on the fringes of Chennai and those technically falling in Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts that are dotted with lakes and paddyfields, the catch and the sale would be swift, not going beyond the spot. In many cases, particularly in paddy fields, the apple snails would be out there for the asking. Pests that can damage the crops, farmers would either collect them for the table, or may only be glad to see them cleared by others, the arrangement working out to the benefit of both parties. It serves as a form of a barter system. “In paddyfields overrun with pila globosa , the paddy crop would tilt and start floating, because it will graze on the shaft under the water. Local farmers would take a bucket, go all along the paddy field and collect the apple snails. The ricefield crab, also edible, would also snip the root and eat. They would collect both in the same bucket and take them home,” shares naturalist and ecology teacher M Yuvan, and recalls how “the non-teaching staff at our school in the outskirts of Chennai would collect it from the paddy fields, put it in a bucket and take it home.” Even before the monsoon — when it is said to be out of season — pila globosa that are caught from lakes is popularly-priced, helping those whom cost is a huge constaint. At the Karambakkam-Porur market, each clump of apple snails, numbering anywhere between 40 and 50, was selling at Rs. 100, and this was in September-end. “It is an economically viable option for many people. Apple snails caught from freshwater waterbodies would be brought to the fish markets and sold along with the fish and other seafood caught at marine environments,” observes Yuvan. Apple snails are also brought to the Nocchi Kuppam fish market. He underlines that during the monsoon, when pila globosa would emerge out of its hibernation in the soil, seeing them would be easier than rolling off a log, with even puddles serving as their hangout. “ Pila Globosa is a freshwater generalist found in any freshwater wetland. You can see it in typha jheels. In October and November, it would be found everywhere. It would be grazing in puddles. There is a cattle tank near the Perungudi railway station that is enlosed where I find it every time I gothere.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hyperlocal-commerce-driven-by-a-snail-and-the-monsoon/article36923407.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Chromepet railway station awaits CCTV cameras||Chromepet Rail Users’ Forum has requested the Southern Railway to install surveillance cameras on the premises of the Chromepet railway station. The appeal comes in the wake of an unidentified person being found dead at the station on October 7. “It is five years since it was decided that surveillance cameras would be installed in more than 900 railway stations in the country under the Nirbhaya Fund. However, Chromepet railway station is yet to get this facility,” says V. Santhanam, the forum’s secretary. Further, the forum points out that the refreshment stalls remain locked at the station for the past few years. “This station witnesses good footfall. But there is no food outlet at such an important station. Therefore, commuters have to go out of the station to buy snacks and food. Stalls at railway stations sell food at much cheaper prices. But commuters are denied this option at Chromepet station,” says M. Subramanian, a resident of Chromepet. Next, the forum has requested the Railway Protection Force and Southern Railway to intensify patrolling along the railway tracks. “Miscreants have damaged a portion of a compound wall belonging to the Southern Railway on Railway Station Border Road in Chromepet,” adds Santhanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chromepet-railway-station-awaits-cctv-cameras/article36923418.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Light up Adhanur Link Road’||Adhanur Link Road presents an eerie picture after 10 p.m., thanks to non-functional street lights. Motorists and residents of Urapakkam say the problem with lighting on this stretch is not new. In the past too, people have complained about it, and only after that has the issue been fixed. The flyover is a major symbol of connectivity for residents of Balaji Nagar, Dhanalakshmi Nagar, Swamy Nagar and Selvaraj Nagar, as it flyover provides access to roads leading to Oragadam, Padappai, Kancheepuram and Madambakkam. The flyover is used by pedestrians to avoid crossing the tracks between Urapakkam and Vandalur railway stations. V. Venkatasubramanian, a social activist,and a member of Urapakkam Residents’ Welfare Association, says: “In 2018, we took up the issue with the Special Secretary, Urapakkam Panchayat but no action has been taken.” Last month, Association members met Chengalpet District Collector and raised the issue with him. After sunset, the space below the flyover is occupied by tipplers. There have been chain snatching incidents and robberies, complain residents. N. Mohanan, secretary, Kolatchi Amman Temple, Urapakkam, has installed 10 lamp posts along the temple for better visibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/light-up-adhanur-link-road/article36923404.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Safety rules flouted at Mahalakshmi Nagar junction’||Safety rules are violated at the intersection of Chitlapakkam Main Road and Velachery Main Road in Mahalakshmi Nagar. As per rules, motorists coming from Chitlapakkam Main Road and proceeding towards Camp Road should take a left turn at this intersection and take a u-turn at the next intersection of Velachery Main Road and Madambakkam Main Road in Rajakilpakkam. However, to avoid this roundabout route, motorists violate the rules by taking a right turn at the junction of Chitlapakkam Main Road and Velachery Main Road in Mahalakshmi Nagar. Pedestrians are also finding it difficult to cross the intersection. Hence, I request the Greater Chennai City Traffic Police to enforce the rules and make the junction safe. K. Dayanand is a resident of Pradeep and Karthik Avenue in Chitlapakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/safety-rules-flouted-at-mahalakshmi-nagar-junction/article36923412.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC to further extend care for pruned trees, says Bedi||There is strong indication that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will soon give trees that are pruned a healing touch. In an interaction with The Hindu , GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi announced that the civic body would explore what solutions can be applied to the cut portions of trees to prevent any damage that may result from exposure to opportunistic pests. He pointed out the process would be worked out with the help of the assistant directors for the horticulture department who are currently on deputation to GCC, and operating in its three regions: south, central and north. He also communicated the civic body’s openness to having citizens on board in this matter, by inviting suggestions from them. The commissioner said that the new measure would be an extension of a culture of care towards trees GCC promoted. Even now, “minimal cutting” was the catchphrase; and that only the section that was going to touch the power lines in the event of a gust or any other disturbance could be cut. Bedi underlined that standing instructions to workers on tree-pruning work — now as part of monsoon-preparedness and through the year, as part of regular maintenance — were that pruning should be executed carefully to prevent any harm to the tree, and the cut sections of a branch should be removed immediately. The commissioner also pointed out that the civic body had two specialised tree-pruning machines for each of the three regions. In addition to that, there were all the regular equipment including power saws, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-to-further-extend-care-for-pruned-trees-says-bedi/article36923425.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolu Kondattam gets bigger||The Hindu Group’s Kolu Kondattam is back, but on a different dimension being organised in four cities — Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Open for residents across Chennai, ‘Kolu Kondattam 2021’ requires participants to send a picture of their Kolu display along with the contestant's image. Each picture should not exceed 3MB. Participants can up their chances of winning by having a pack of Mangaldeep Agarbatti in their Kolu display photos. The kolu display photos can be uploaded on https://bit.ly/KOLU21 or Scan the QR Code. Last date for Registrations is 10th October 2021. The Kolu will be judged based on the theme and description. Description should include details of the Kolu arrangement and the elements of creativity that went into it. Our jury members will pay a visit to the top 25 shortlisted participants to choose the final three Winners of the contest. There is the possibility of a surprise visit from celebrities. The contest would be conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Madurai. Covid-appropriate behaviour would be followed by all visiting the houses. The Kolu Kondattam 2021 prize details are: State wnner (overall, cash component) — first prize: 25,000; second prize: 15,000; and third prize: 10,000. To know more about city-specific prize details, visit the microsite. For more details, call Chennai: 9841298938. Vidiem Kitchen Appliances is the title sponsor. The event is powered by Mangaldeep. It is organised in association with Naga Food Products. SSVM Institutions is the education partner; Nippon Paint, the colour partner; Saraswathi Vidyalaya, the school partner. Associate sponsors are Kancheepuram Vara Mahalakshmi Silks & Freshey’s. Gift sponsors are Aachi Masala; Cotton House; G Organics; Stilo Clothing; Saaral Foods; PS Tamarind; RCL Foods; Selai Nayaki; Supreme Furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kolu-kondattam-gets-bigger/article36923421.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Give those trees to the wood doctor||Ornithologist V Santharam spells out two factors that enable the black-rumped flameback to “adopt” a patch. 1. “Leave the odd large old tree that is dead or have dead branches, provided it is not a hazard to passersby. Obviously, such a tree should be in a space that people do not venture into. Woodpeckers require such large trees , especially the black-rumped flameback, as they enable to drill a nest with minimal effort.” 2. Besides,the bird needs an adequate stand of healthy trees to meet it insect-dominated diet plan. “The structure of the tree and barks are very important. In some cases, the bark is very smooth, as in eucalyptus trees. There are not many ridges. They do go on eucalyptus trees, but it is not convenient for them. In some of the native trees such as neem and tamarind, the bark is furrowed and harbour insects in plenty. Woodpeckers find it convenient to hunt for insects there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/give-those-trees-to-the-wood-doctor/article36923424.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cardiac surgeon by day and a tree doctor at night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cardiac-surgeon-by-day-and-a-tree-doctor-at-night/article36923415.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic themes take centre stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pandemic-themes-take-centre-stage/article36923416.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GOOD TURNOUT FOR LOCAL BODY POLLS||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/good-turnout-for-local-body-polls/article36923410.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Should a deity have two arms or more?||In Kushan coins, minted over 1,800 years ago, we come across images of a woman holding the horn of plenty. She is identified with the Roman Goddess Fortuna, the Greek goddess Tyche, the Central Asian Ardochsho, the Buddhist Hariti, and the Hindu goddess Lakshmi. Images of Lakshmi are also found on pillars and medallions of early Buddhist stupas. She is visualised there as a bejewelled woman, standing in a pond of lotus flowers, surrounded by elephants, very similar to Lakshmi images found in Hindu homes today. But there is one crucial difference. Lakshmi images today show her as four-armed, not two-armed. The transformation of two-armed Lakshmi into four-armed Lakshmi happened in the Gupta period, 1,700 years ago, when the old Vedic way reinforced its power by redefining itself through the Puranas, and pushed back on Buddhist popularity. The shift began in the earlier Kushan period. The rise of four-armed deities effectively marks a turning point in assertive Hindu art. Not more than two The earliest Indian art comes from Harappa. Here we have images of men meditating, or escaping from tigers, or leaping on bulls, and women in procession, or resolving conflicts. All human characters have only two arms. Nearly 2,000 years after the Harappan period, we have the remarkably evolved Gandharan and Mathura art, mostly Buddhist, telling stories from the life of the Buddha and folktales inspired by Jataka tales. In Mathura art, we find the earliest image of Saraswati, from a Jain site, seated with a book in her hand. She too has two arms. Here we find celestial beings with wings, heads, and bodies of horses, indicating the clear influence of Greek and Persian art. But no four-armed beings. The earliest images of Hindu gods are found on coins. Indo-Greek coins from 200 BCE have images of Krishna holding a wheel; he is two-armed. Kushan coins from 200 CE have images of Shiva holding a trident, many showing him with four arms. But the oldest Shiva lingam at Gudimallam, Andhra Pradesh, dated to 300 CE, shows Shiva with two arms only. From the Kushan period, we have the earliest images of Durga, showing her killing a buffalo. She too has multiple arms. The Kushans were migrants from South-West China and had no religious affiliations, which is why their coins in the western edge of their empire show Greco-Roman-Scyhtian influence while their coins in the eastern edge show Buddhist and Hindu influences. By the time of the Guptas, the Buddhist influence was on the wane. The earliest Hindu iconography showing a four-armed Vishnu has been found in Malhar in Madhya Pradesh, dating to 100 BCE. It becomes more explicit in the Hindu temple in Deogarh that dates to the Gupta period, where we find the four-armed Vishnu in three forms: riding Garuda, reclining on Shesha, and as a teacher. When he is reclining, Lakshmi is at his feet. But she has only two arms. The sprouting of multiple arms and later, multiple heads, differentiated supernatural beings from regular humans. In Buddhist art, Brahma and Indra are often shown bowing to the Buddha. How does one know they are not just any kings or priests? Brahma is shown with four arms, establishing his divine status and Hindu roots. In early Jain art, we find four images of the Tirthankara Rishabhdev facing four directions. But in Hindu art, we find chatur-mukha lingas showing Shiva’s head on four sides. In Jain art, we do find four-armed yakshas and yakshis, but the Tirthankara is never given supernatural form. At best, his limbs are longer than usual, reaching up to the knee, an indicator of being special. No icons here The idea of a god with multiple heads, arms and feet is first found in Vedic literature, and finds expression also in the Bhagavad Gita where Krishna takes his cosmic form, one that pervades every corner of the universe by expanding his form and by multiplying heads, arms, legs. The Vedic priests visualised the gods but did not turn them into icons of stone and metal. Local tribes gave form to their gods, but represented them symbolically through rocks, trees, rivers, or pots and baskets filled with food and water. Anthropomorphic images, where gods have human form, came much later. And images of gods with many heads and hands came even later. Tamil Sangam literature refers to gods like Mayon and Ceyon and Perumal, with their complexion, their abode, their banners, and sacred animals, but does not mention multiple arms. Supernatural beings The Mahayana and later the Tantrik schools introduced the idea of supernatural beings with multiple heads and arms into Buddhist art. But the form was associated with Bodhisattva, who is still to attain Buddhahood. He sprouts many heads and hands to see, hear and help the many suffering souls of the cosmos. On attaining Buddha status, he may have giant form, but retains only two arms. Adi Shankaracharya is said to have established the worship of goddess Sharda, who is identified as Saraswati, nearly 12 centuries earlier. Early 20th century prints of the goddess show her as two-armed but new prints show her as four-armed. How do we resolve this mystery? Was she a Buddhist goddess who became Hindu under Shankara’s influence? Shankara was after all described by his opponents as Prachanna Buddha or crypto-Buddhist. And he did play a key role in eclipsing Buddhism from the Indian landscape. We will never know for sure. But what we do know is that today, Hindu gods from Lakshmi to Ganesha to Saraswati are always depicted with four or more arms. They are two-armed only when they take mortal form, like Ram or Krishna. Four arms do what the halo did in Christian art — help the viewer quickly establish who is divine, who is supernatural, and who is worthy of veneration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/should-a-deity-have-two-arms-or-more/article36923519.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||At a dangerous crossroad||Harsh and dark phrases are usually deployed to signal the end of democracy, but Debasish Roy Chowdhury and John Keane refreshingly use history, marshal facts and weave a complex and compelling narrative on why India’s democracy stands at a dangerous crossroad. Wide gap The book’s fundamental argument is that there is a wide gap between India’s political reality, which offers political equality, and its social reality. The absence of egalitarian values in India’s social life has finally caught up with its political project under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since 2014. This is not too far from Dr. Ambedkar’s warning in an interview to the BBC in 1953 that the authors quote. Frustrated by opposition to his plans to reform Hindu personal laws, he did not think much of the chances of Indian democracy surviving “for the simple reason that we have got a social structure which is totally incompatible with parliamentary democracy.” It is ironic that with an Indian government which is trying hard to embed ‘democracy’ as central to its international and strategic outreach, the Indian edition of the book has been hard to procure, with little clarity on whether it will be printed here, thus lowering the cover price, or be imported. Keane’s The New Despotism on ills plaguing several democracies including India was valuable in understanding the contemporary crises, where he argued that elections and popular will were being used to conjure up support for despotic and authoritarian rule. This, he argued, was not just an imposition. A significant section of the population was willingly supporting the despot. The missing essence Roy and Keane invoke Periyar’s worldview, of the essence of democracy being equality and freedom for each of its members. It is not limited to elections where “bread and fish” secure votes and sap the system of its essence. A “well-functioning democracy requires a special kind of social life. Democracy is freedom from hunger, humiliation and violence... It’s freedom from fear and the right not to be killed. It’s equal access to decent medical care and sympathy for those who have fallen behind. Democracy is a learned sense of worldly wonder. It’s the everyday ability to handle unexpected situations wisely. It’s the rejection of the dogma that things can’t be changed because they’re ‘naturally’ fixed in stone.” By meticulously recording the degrading of life in India for an average citizen, the authors conclude that India had been setting itself up for a collapse. The dangers of the promise of equality, once it remained unfulfilled, lead to a contempt for democracy when large sections begin to thirst for someone who could cut through the system and deliver. “Give me a despot,” they said. The despotism in India has come combined with Hindutva ideology, which as a consequence of electoral dominance, is trying to fundamentally remake the nation as an ethnic democracy. Even though this was pointedly negated during the freedom struggle and the crafting of the Constitution. Where we stand There is, generally speaking, a desire to see whatever degradation we see around us, as historical baggage, of bitter fruits of a past when Indian society was always prone to privileging powerful sections with others falling in line. The other view is to prioritise the present, and blame it all on events, a single person or party in power. What this book tries to do is get away from choosing one or the other of the reasons to account for where India stands today. It connects all that has been achieved by India by adhering to its constitutional values as its desired ideals. It is also able to measure the large gaps between socially acceptable norms which were left mostly uncontested even as India went to boldly embrace universal progressive values. You would not be wrong to argue that this book is an expansion of Ambedkar’s address to the Constituent Assembly on November 25, 1949. It was in that speech that he clearly spelt out his worries for India’s future, when politics guarantees one man being equal to one vote but within a social reality which does not accord each citizen an equal value. He was convinced that unless dealt with, the divergence will tear the modern Indian project apart. A pushback But as they conclude, the authors spot hope due to substantial counter-currents against the current regime. The authors see challenges to authoritarian decisions in numerous protests and India’s diversity. This diversity, they say, could serve as the most effective counter to the ruling dispensation’s ideology of one-nation and one-everything. This important and well-written book’s title is inspired by the Harper Lee classic, To Kill a Mocking Bird . Democracy is ultimately “insubordination: the refusal to put up with everyday forms of snobbery and toad-eating, idolatry and lying, bullshit and bullying.” The problem that the reader is left with is, can this be done in the absence of social democracy? As the authors conclude, “if despotism replaces democracy then this isn’t because despotic power is somehow inevitable, but because citizens allow it to happen.” Citizens will have to be the proverbial Atticus Finch to prevent the killing of India’s democracy.  The reviewer is a journalist-writer based in New Delhi.  To Kill a Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism Debasish Roy Chowdhury, John Keane Oxford University Press  Rs. 995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/at-a-dangerous-crossroad/article36923491.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Art will always rise up to face adversity and succeed’||With the shortlist for the JCB Prize for Literature 2021 announced last week, excitement about the winner (to be declared on November 13) is mounting. Now in its forth edition, the JCB Prize has already become one of the most coveted literary prizes in India, not the least because it is the most expensive, with the winner getting Rs. 25 lakh. The JCB Prize is special also because it awards translators — if the winning work is a translation, the translator gets an additional Rs. 10 lakh. Two of the five books in the 2021 shortlist are translations. If translations are in vogue now, this prize can be counted as one of the significant drivers of the resurgence. Mita Kapur, Literary Director of the JCB Prize, talks about the award and its impact. What inspired you to include translated works in the prize? The JCB Prize was constituted for awarding the best of Indian fiction. This immediately translates into enveloping the entire country, which has an infinite treasure of storytelling traditions, a wide spectrum of literary traditions, and languages that change from region to region along with voices, tonalities, local idioms and phraseology. Translations become integral when we celebrate excellence in Indian writing. Do you see an expansion in the readership and demand of translated works since the JCB Prize was started in 2018? Yes. Since the first year of the award, when two of the winning books were translated works, each year’s shortlist has also had a healthy ratio of translations. This has impacted visibility, promotions and sales of the books. Sales figures for the shortlisted and winning books have gone up by nine times. Can you explain the selection process briefly? How is transparency maintained? In order to maintain transparency, the JCB Prize comes with multiple checks. The process, each year, begins with the appointment of a jury of five members who come from different fields, bringing with them varied sensibilities and points of view. The opening of entries is announced publicly along with targeted outreach to publishers across the country. Each publisher is provided with a quota of four entries, of which two have to be translations. No distinction is made among publishing houses by way of entry quotas. The prize also employs a third party consulting firm that receives the entries, vets them for eligibility, and sends them to the jury for reading. The same firm also conducts jury meetings right up to the final decision regarding the winner, while keeping records of each meeting. From start to finish, each cycle of the JCB Prize has been run meticulously with the jury reading and re-reading all the books — each book has to stand out for the strength of its writing, and in that lies the spirit of inclusivity and transparency. How has the response been to the prize since its inception? The prize has had a very warm response, both from the publishing industry and readers across India. Being one of the biggest awards in the contemporary literary space, the prize not only encourages writing but also works towards enhancing the prestige and success of books. Over the past four years we have seen a year-on-year increase of 10-15% in eligible entries on the one hand and a good 600% increase in the people interacting with the listed books on the other. A few words on the 2021 longlist and shortlist please. Do they reflect the present-day realities, from the pandemic to the political changes India and the world have been going through? This year’s lists are special — they give credence to the fact that art and creativity will always rise up to face adversity and not only survive but also succeed. Memorable characters, strongly rooted in their sense of place and time, coming from different parts of the country, mirror the present times. Each narrative unfolds a world within itself, asking the reader to feel all the emotions the writer has portrayed. The longlist and shortlist literally span the geographical and cultural boundaries of India.  Translations become integral when we celebrate excellence in Indian writing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/art-will-always-rise-up-to-face-adversity-and-succeed/article36923474.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Complete count||South’s six-club bid showed specifically the king of clubs – a Blackwood variation that has grown in popularity over the years. This encouraged North to gamble out a grand slam. Thirteen tricks would be easy provided the missing clubs split 3-2, but the likelihood of bad spits increases whenever there is a preempt in the auction. South, aware of this, played the hand very carefully. He won the opening spade lead with dummy’s ace and cashed the ace and queen of hearts, noting the 4-1 split. South cashed the ace and king of diamonds and was at the crossroads. East presumably started with two spades to go with four hearts and at least two diamonds. The hand would not be manageable if East started with all five missing clubs, so South cashed the queen of diamonds to discard his remaining spade. South now tried for a perfect count on the hand, He ruffed dummy’s last diamond with the jack of hearts as East discarded a spade. Perfect! South led a club to the queen and led another club. Had East split his honors, South would have won and returned to dummy with the 10 of hearts to take another club finesse. When East played low, South inserted his nine of clubs and claimed shortly after that. Well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/complete-count/article36923513.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Station names!||Back then, there were no self-help books to teach you “speed-reading”. But you could learn it by reading the names of stations as the train sped by! With elbows anchored on the train’s window sill, forehead pressed to the window bar, you had just a few seconds to read the station’s name. And if you had an elder sister on the adjoining window seat, it made for healthy and at times, ugly competition! The erstwhile Bombay-to-Madras rail route was filled with station names that were a mouthful! You grandly announced Yerraguntla, Tadipatri, Guntakal and Hadapsar as the trains whizzed past them. Till the mid-1980s, the station boards had stayed unchanged for well over a century. You could faintly pick anglicised names such as Poona and Dhond over which the fresh coat of paint had the revised spellings Pune and Daund. It was as if a mysterious world existed behind these stations that you would never know. As you travelled through the Western Ghats, you wondered how Monkey Hill got its name! When it came to Hotgi and Chiksugar, it was as though they concealed a culinary past! Of particular interest was Gooty. You felt goofy to imagine that Gooty’s brother was perhaps Ooty! There were station boards that announced, “Alight here to visit the ancient shrine of...” You wondered if it had compelled a passenger to make a life-changing decision to disembark and explore these exotic places. No station did you look forward to more than Venkatanarasimharajuvaripeta in Andhra Pradesh. How could a station have such a big name? Imagination ran riot: how the signboard artist had written half the name and fretted when he found no room to fit the rest! And how a tourist from outside India would stumble over the name, getting to “ven-kata” and thereafter, throwing his hands up in despair!  shankar.ccpp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/station-names/article36923465.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||An unfolding battle of narratives alongside the 1971 war||The emergence of independent Bangladesh in 1971 was the most significant geopolitical event in the subcontinent since the partition of India. At the time, it was hailed in India as the decisive repudiation of the idea that religion could be the basis of national identity. Fifty years on, this idea is well and alive in the region — above all, in India. Irony, as Reinhold Niebuhr suggested, is perhaps the key to understanding history. Nevertheless, it is important to recall the extent to which an inclusive, progressive nationalism shaped India’s handling of the 1971 crisis. This book casts into sharp relief this crucial dimension. It brings together the despatches written for All India Radio by the distinguished broadcaster and commentator, U.L. Baruah. As director of the External Services Division, he was responsible for conveying India’s perception of those extraordinary events to audiences outside India — especially in Pakistan. The despatches were broadcast on All India Radio’s services in Urdu, Punjabi, Sindhi, Pushto and Bengali. They provide a fascinating peek into the battle of narratives that unfolded alongside the battles on the ground. Piercing through censorship Broadcast from mid-June 1971, Baruah’s despatches sought to pierce the crust of censorship and disinformation laid by the Pakistani military regime. A recurrent theme in these broadcasts was undermining the regime’s claim that the crisis had been stoked by India. On the contrary, “It almost started with the creation of Pakistan. It was apparent to most sensible Pakistanis that religion could not hold the two disparate wings of a country separated by over a thousand miles of foreign territory, unless a reasonable kind of relationship based on mutual trust was established.” India had “never accepted the two-nation theory... but it never questioned the existence of Pakistan.” The broadcasts also sought to confute the military regime’s claim that the Bangladeshi fighters were Indian personnel or agents. “The truth of the matter is that there is a war of liberation going on in East Bengal.... Sooner the Pakistani authorities realise this, better it would be for them. Otherwise, the very existence of West Pakistan might be in danger for there are similar movements for autonomy among the Pakhtoons, Baluchis and Sindhis.” The banning of the National Awami Party was given much prominence — as was the Afghan government’s protests on behalf of the Pashtuns.   No communal spin Baruah was acutely aware of the problem of credibility in these narratives. His preferred method was to quote extensively from reports in British and American newspapers as well as to amplify dissenting voices in Pakistan. Antony Mascerenhas’ famous report in the Sunday Times on the genocidal tactics of the Pakistan army was not only presented in detail, but emphasised as a report by a Pakistani journalist. Foreign correspondents were also quoted as stating that “the majority of the refugees now fleeing the country” were Hindus — a point that the Indian government refrained from broadcasting to its domestic audiences, owing to concerns that it might trigger communal violence. Indeed, Indira Gandhi privately requested A.B. Vajpayee of the Jana Sangh not to give a communal spin to the tragedy. Baruah continued to write these despatches after the war. In his account of the Simla agreement of 1972 — the last of the series — Baruah noted that “the Simla Agreement is only a beginning... a farsighted step forward on the part of both India and Pakistan.... It should be looked upon as a framework by which both countries could work for a durable peace to live in cooperation.” He was emphatic that “the old concept of nationhood for the Muslims of the Indo-Pak subcontinent is long dead”. An inclusive nationalism was the only way forward for Pakistan and the only basis on which peace and good neighbourly relations could be established — a piece of strategic wisdom worth emphasising today.  The reviewer is Professor of International Relations and History at Ashoka University.  A Bangladesh War Commentary: 1971 Radio Dispatches U.L. Baruah Pan Macmillan  Rs. 1,650||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-unfolding-battle-of-narratives-alongside-the-1971-war/article36923488.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On October 10, 1865, John Wesley Hyatt submitted his patent for a piece of sporting equipment. These items used to be made from ivory, which was scarce, so as a substitute, Hyatt and his brother came up with ‘Celluloid’. They were the first to identify the value of adding camphor to cellulose nitrate. Although celluloid was manufactured for that sport, it became widely used to make guitar picks, combs and as a part of table tennis. What sport is this that uses 22 items made of celluloid, of which one is white, 15 are red and 6 are in other colours? 2 In 2010, this company launched its product with a certain Chennai Super Kings player as the brand ambassador. Referred to as ‘a half-brick on a stick’, it facilitated big hitting, which fit the player who was promoting it. Though it had a longer handle than normal, the size proportion was the same as a normal bat, so it could be legally used. What is the name of this unique bat that comes to us from the world of wildlife? 3 Crocker is a team sport in which the bowler will bowl to try and hit the stumps but can do so at his own pace even if the batsmen are not ready. If the batsman hits the ball he must run either to his left or right around the stump. If the ball touches the body, the batsman is given ‘half-out’ and if it happens again then he is out. The rules of which two games come together to form Crocker? 4 This sport is a variant of football and is played on an indoor hard court with an emphasis on improvisation, creativity and technique. The name comes from the shortening of ‘fútbol de salón’, Spanish for ‘hall football’. The sport was invented by a Uruguayan teacher to play in the YMCA after the country had won the 1930 World Cup. He based it on football but took some rules from other sports, such as five players in a team (basketball), goalkeeper rules (water polo) and field/ goal size (handball). What is the name of this game? 5 Boxla is an indoor version of a sport that was first played in Canada. It is usually played on ice hockey rinks, after the ice has been removed. It’s played between two teams of five players and one goaltender each. In the original sport, the athletes carry around a stick that has a net at the end to catch and pass a ball, which is then put into a goal. This is done on a field but boxla is played in a closed area. The name of the sport is a combination of the area name and the original sport it evolved from. What is the full form of boxla? 6 One explanation for the origin of this term is that baseball fields were earlier oriented to be in a westerly direction when facing the batter. However, this origin is disputed given that this term did not originate with baseball at all (and not all baseball fields are oriented in this manner) and was used much earlier to describe a left-handed person dealing a blow. What term is this, which you would have heard during cricket commentary? 7 This term from a certain sport has become part of the English language now and means a ‘forceful, dramatic move, especially against someone’. In the sport, it refers to a forceful shot in which the player jumps right to the scoring area and forces the ball in. It has become such an integral and entertaining part of the sport that separate competitions are held only for this move. What is this move? 8 This item is made of vulcanised rubber, but was initially square in shape and made of wood. Eventually in 1880, the Victoria Hockey Club in Canada started making round ones called ‘biscuit’ due to their shape, which lead to the expression ‘Put the biscuit in the basket’ to mean to score a goal. In which sport is this used and what is the name of this entity, which sounds like a character from a Shakespeare play? 9 An explanation for this cricketing term states that it comes from the fact that the delivery used would cause a batsman’s eyes to goggle or would shock him. What is the term that we now use, based on this, for a tricky delivery in cricket, or any situation in real life that throws up an unexpected twist? 10 This annual football match takes place between the Department of Peace Studies of the University of Bradford and the Department of War Studies of King’s College London, the two being academic, regional and ideological rivals. The rolling trophy is a framed book, first published in 1867, kept for a year by the winners. It was returned after 2011 due to its fragile state, and was replaced by a new one. The tournament is named after the author of the book. What is the name of the tournament and what is the trophy? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36923505.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Diamond and rust||Ideally one should be sitting on a chaise longue, cheroot in hand, beside a marble-topped rosewood table with a tall glass of pink lemonade, to listen to the seductive tales of Ari Gautier. Somewhere in the background, you might even notice a copy of Life of Pi , which also starts in Puducherry, the former French town that remained aggressively Francophone in a distinctly Tamil landscape. I am reminded of a time in the early 1980s when an interim Chief Minister I was interviewing suddenly got up from his chair and said, “Come, I want to show you something special. It is so French!” Taking me past his private quarters, his bedroom and his startled wife, he threw open the bathroom door, and pointing to the object next to the toilet seat, exclaimed, “Bidet — imported from France!” “Bonjour bidet!” I said and we both laughed. In those days, Chief Ministers were secure enough to be able to laugh. It’s what I would describe as an Ari Gautier moment. His characters live in a small hamlet called Kurusukuppam at the edge of what was once known as the White Town. Central to the architecture of the dwellings is an open platform at the entrance to each house, the thinnai , which is a semi-public space, where people gather for small talk and gossip. Reclaiming histories The thinnai is Gautier’s stage. Le Thinnai Kreyol, the public initiative he runs with Ananya Jahanara Kabir, is meant to be a “multicultural online platform” celebrating the life born of India’s long contact with Europe. It’s where those who have been tossed about by currents of colonial dislocation — most often wars, migration as slave labour for New World plantations, or financial ventures lured by the fabled wealth of the East — meet to reclaim their histories. Gilbert Thatha, an old man who had landed up in Kurusukuppam one Bastille Day clutching a bundle of stories, stretches out on the thinnai of the narrator, who is himself trapped in the history of the colonial enterprise. Gilbert is accompanied by Little Gilbert, a young boy he claims to have rescued from a railway platform. Is it Gautier himself who returns to Kurususkuppam? Is Kurususkuppam a fictionalised Puducherry? We know from the author’s bio that Gautier was born in Madagascar, spent many years in both India and France, and now resides in Norway. He is a latter-day Sindbad who has sailed many seas and come to port. He’s a listener as well as a malicious raconteur, at least in some of the stories. Constantly reinvented His visit to city market is as enticing as the freshly-caught fish being sold by the lascivious fishwives or the Creole cuisine of the feisty cook, Lourdes. But when Gautier as Gilbert Thatha combines the story of the French diamond merchant Tavernier with that of a Golconda diamond named ‘The Stone of Sita’ and ponders the latter’s impact on world affairs, he goes too far. One begins to despair at this stage. His most damaging critique is of the North Indians, read the ‘Ashramites’, and the hippies with their drugs lurking in the sidelines waiting to be re-birthed in the City of Dawn, Auroville. These are the ‘spiritual colonisers’, as some have called them, appropriating the Creole heritage left by the French. It’s interesting to compare Gautier’s evocation of Puducherry in the latter half of the 20th century with M. Mukundan’s novel, On the Banks of the Mayyazhi, translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnankutty. On the Banks is set in tiny Mahé, also a former French colony, in the years before Independence. Puducherry, now a Union Territory, has undergone so many transformations from its time as the last habitat of the French in India that it is constantly in a state of being re-invented. Questions that find their way almost unbidden into the text are those one could ask of the blue-eyed straggler, Gilbert Thatha, too: ‘For whom?’, ‘By whom?’ And one can ask the same questions of the glorious amalgam that is India. The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.  The Thinnai Ari Gautier, trs Blake Smith Hachette India  Rs. 399    Gautier is a listener as well as a malicious raconteur, at least in some of the stories||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/diamond-and-rust/article36923470.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pliny don’t preach||Tishani Doshi’s stunning new poetry collection, A God at the Door, performs the difficult task of locating the body within the broader politics of state power and gender. Through it all, her voice remains clear as a bell, her hold over craft unwavering. Over and over, the poems pose the question: How does one return to the body when trapped in the systemic violence of structures designed to make you forget who you are? Disparate though they may be in terms of theme, tone and approach, the poems nevertheless sit brilliantly together, the effect achieved akin to that of a single long narrative. Doshi doesn’t given in to the temptation of taking shortcuts, of saying the trite, politically correct thing. Everything is held up to the light so that we arrive slowly, by gradual steps, at a way of looking at the world. Eye for the incongruent Foundational to Doshi’s collection are four aspects and it is through these that I would like to read  the poems. The first, and perhaps the most significant, is the clear-eyed nature of her moral universe and the tongue-in-cheek sarcasm and wit with which she responds to all that ails the world. Doshi has an eye for the incongruent — it is on this that the poems rest. For instance, her poem for Margaret Mascarenhas, ‘I Found a Village and in it Were All Our Missing Women’ is woven from two stories: one, that 21 million Indian women were denied the right to vote (because their names were not registered on voting lists) and two, that 4,600 women sugarcane-cutters from Beed district of Maharashtra had undergone hysterectomies so they would not miss a day of work. The poem’s quiet, hard anger plays out via the construction of a surreal universe — a village which is a holding place for all missing women who have been sending proof of their existence to offices of the registrar and have received in response “a rake and a cobweb in a box.” Similarly, ‘After a Shooting in a Maternity Clinic in Kabul’, which takes off from a May 2020 attack, speaks to the cognitive dissonance of the city — the happy, fertile image of orchards overlaid by that of a graveyard into which babies are born. The title of the poem, ‘We Will Not Kill You. We’ll Just Shoot You in the Vagina’, based on Filipino president Rodrigo Duterte’s orders to soldiers to shoot female communist rebels in the vagina, is a story in itself. In lines reminiscent of Mahasewta Devi’s story, Draupadi , Doshi writes, “It’s true. We’re useless without our vaginas./ How will you rape us?” ‘Hope is the Thing’ builds on the story of 12-year old Jamalo Madkam, a migrant worker who died of exhaustion during the long walk back home from Telangana to Chhattisgarh during the lockdown. It offers the striking image: “A god at the door sitting/ on a giant buffalo offers you a sip/ of wine to make the bitterness go away.” Serious and funny Another equally striking aspect of Doshi’s work is her pitch-perfect awareness of a poem’s performative life. The beat and the rhythm of ‘The Stormtroopers of My Country,’ written in response to the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019, convey an urgency that feels like a call to action: “The stormtroopers of my country love/ their wives but are okay to burn/ what needs to be burned for the good/ of the republic often doing so in brown/ pleated shorts and cute black hats with sticks…” The shape poems in this collection, ‘I Carry My Uterus in a Small Suitcase’ and ‘Advice for Pliny the Elder, Big Daddy of Mansplainers,’ perform the body visually. Doshi can be deadly serious and funny at the same time. ‘Advice for Pliny the Elder...’ begins with “Great Man, now that you are dead, allow me to squeeze your hand” and gets us with the lines: “I am a mere woman — inferior lettuce… Once a month, when the blood comes, I go out to lie in whatever field I/ find to feel the scorch rise and the crops wither.” The strategy of evoking Pliny the Elder, who in his Natural History spoke of the calamitous power of the menstruating body, only to recast him as the “Big Daddy of Mansplainers” does its work. Both in this poem and in ‘What Mr Frog Running Away from Marilyn Monroe Taught me about #MeToo,’ Doshi eschews sermonising, choosing instead irony and humour. Finally, Doshi brings to her poetry a specialised toolkit of simile and metaphor. In ‘Why the Brazilian Butt Lift Won’t Save Us’, lips burgeon “like a Hokusai wave”. ‘A Dress is Like a Field’ begins with the evocative lines: “A dress is like a field./ Lift a hem and flowers/ will fall.” The visual reach and music of these lines linger with us. The world is a mess and there is no way to square it all. But Doshi’s poems help us sit with all that is incongruent and awry. The reviewer’s latest collection of poems,The Unmistakable Presence of Absent Humans, was published by Poetrywala, Mumbai.  A God at the Door Tishani Doshi HarperCollins   Rs. 499    Everything is held up to the light so that we arrive slowly, by gradual steps, at a way of looking at the world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pliny-dont-preach/article36923472.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Giving a chance to hope||This is not a memoir, Urvashi Bahuguna tells us, in the preface of No Straight Thing Was Ever Made . More caveats follow — the essays are not meant to be prescriptive; the book is not a definitive account of mental illness; what works for one may not apply to others; and one does not have it all figured out, is continuously learning and adapting. As the collection — a set of 10 personal essays on mental health — comforts, confronts and challenges a reader, it is the crevices of these reminders that they can retreat into. Not a binary “Mental health doesn’t exist in isolation. It changes everything it touches, and it touches everything,” Bahuguna, diagnosed with major depressive disorder in 2014 and later with generalised anxiety disorder, writes. Each essay is an attempt at demystifying one facet of life the illness has influenced. Through anecdotes, recollections and reflection, she exemplifies how mental health is not a binary between ill and well, but a spectrum. Carefully memorised experiences provide an annotated narrative on family, body-image, dating and writing with the illness, social media, the natural world as a space for healing, suicides, fatigue, and prospective parenthood. Bahuguna doesn’t euphemise the periods of her mental illness. In repeated and casual usage of “illness” and “sickness” — “being ill is lonely”, “when I turn 20, I fall really sick — for the first time”, “your sick mind is trying to…” — she normalises mental illness. In an interview with SheThePeople , Bahuguna says the title of the book, part of a quote by Immanuel Kant, is a way for her to try and accept who she was and how ill she was. She compels us to look at actions and symptoms as the outcome of the illness rather than a personal shortcoming. “We don’t have to hold ourselves to unreasonable standards.” Extension of poetry  Terrarium , Bahuguna’s debut work, is a collection of poems she refers to as “a microcosm of my life”. The essays in No Straight Thing Was Ever Made were written as an extension of these earlier poems, she has said in various interviews. As she clambers up the “mountain of accumulated memories”, in essay after essay, accosting her emotions, paring away the hurt, understanding perspectives, the book feels like an intimate exercise in exoneration and forgiveness, all for that elusive exult of catharsis. In an essay on family, she asks: “Why did my parents not do better?” Her parents honestly answer, “We did not know, okay? We didn’t know.” Bahuguna, in atonement, tells us she suspects that sometimes, one’s instincts aren’t good enough. That, over time, she has learnt to make the questions smaller and the heart a little bigger. The author attributes the success of managing her illness, of self-awareness and circumspection — if not caution — to therapy and medicine. Acknowledging her privilege of having access to healthcare, she writes, “I wish these were not luxuries.” A diagnosis and a prescription are the first steps on the journey and not the end of it, Bahuguna tells us, charting her path thematically, rather than chronologically. “The future is a nifty place for holding hope,” she writes while discussing why we endure or succumb. And that future, she tells us, with measured optimism in the departing chapter, can have lasting relationships despite the illness, for although the “illness cannot be wished away, it can often be managed.”  The reviewer is a freelance journalist based in Bengaluru.  No Straight Thing was Ever Made: Essays on Mental Health Urvashi Bahuguna Viking/Penguin  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/giving-a-chance-to-hope/article36923482.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The name game||I have a friend by the name of Vasudevan, a common name in Tamil Nadu. My Bengali friends call him Basudevan. Initially, I used to chide them, but I got used to it after understanding the nuances of the language. But still it was a shock when someone called me Vashyam. After a while, I took this also in the right spirit. During a get-together, I suggested a game. Each person talk about his or her name and whether he or she likes it or not. They have to say why they like or dislike about it. If they do not like, what new name will they suggest for themselves. Quite unexpectedly, the game worked well with eager participation. The moral of the story was that many did not like their names, but they had not made efforts to change them fearing the associated rigmarole. If an option is given that while becoming eligible to vote, a person can change his or her name, many may opt for it. In the U.S., the hospital should be informed of the name of the baby before it and the mother are discharged after delivery. In India, in most communities, the naming ceremony is held several days after delivery. Further, the practice of calling the child Chintu, Pinku or Gulla till the formal ceremony is prevalent. Even after a proper name is given, the person gets a pet name. If the youngest, one gets the name Chinnappayyan, meaning small boy. Srinivasan becomes Cheeni or Seenu. Padmanabhan becomes Panna, Paddhu or Pappan. Many name a child after a god or a goddess thinking it will develop the positive traits or virtue of the divine. My friends from Tamil Nadu have named their children Jyoti Basu, Nehru and Gandhi. Hasmukh is the name of a friend in Delhi. Believe me, he has a smiling face all day. Whether it’s because of the name or not is open for debate. When my friend announced his grandson’s name as Mudgal, I asked him what it meant. “I thought you should be knowing. You are conversant with the Puranas,” he said. I later found Mudgal was a great rishi and discoverer of many mantras. Today, in the world of changing fashions and tastes, parents like to select a short, sweet, easily pronounceable name for their children. Yet, we do not know whether the child will like the name when it grows to an adult. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-name-game/article36923463.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Tenderness||Alison Macleod  Bloomsbury Publishing Rs. 699 On the shores of the Mediterranean in 1928, D.H. Lawrence races to completeLady Chatterley’s Lover, which will be censored on publication. This story recreates the novel’s origins and imagines its journey to freedom through the story of Jackie Kennedy, who was known to be an admirer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tenderness/article36923480.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian Innings: The Journey of Indian Cricket from 1947||Edited by Ayaz Memon  Westland Sport Rs. 799 This anthology, edited by a veteran sports journalist, traces cricket writing through the years, highlighting the game’s post-Independence journey in India. From the early pioneers and right up to the present, several writers provide a snapshot of the last 75 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indian-innings-the-journey-of-indian-cricket-from-1947/article36923493.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Hurricane Lizards and Plastic Squid||Thor Hanson  Hachette Rs. 1,867 In this volume, Hanson explores the remarkable ways that plants and animals are responding to climate change: moving, adapting, and even evolving. It is a story of hope, resilience, and risk, and shows what natural history is making of an unnatural time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hurricane-lizards-and-plastic-squid/article36923495.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The World of India’s First Archaeologist: Letters from Alexander Cunningham to JDM Beglar||Upinder Singh  Oxford University Press Rs. 2,495 Alexander Cunningham was the first Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India. This volume contains 193 letters he wrote between 1871 and 1888 to his archaeological assistant, J.D.M. Beglar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-world-of-indias-first-archaeologist-letters-from-alexander-cunningham-to-jdm-beglar/article36923497.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kamala Harris: Phenomenal Woman||Chidanand Rajghatta  HarperCollins Rs. 599 In January, Kamala Harris was sworn in as the Vice President of the U.S., making her the first person of Indian origin, and the first woman to reach this position. This biography focuses on values that shaped her, celebrating her Asian and Jamaican heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kamala-harris-phenomenal-woman/article36923499.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3171||Across  1 ‘Do OK in exam?’ ‘Dunno’ (4) 3 Everyman on cycling trip with odour, glimmering (10) 9 Even so, setter is creature seldom seen (4) 10 Romcom reboot ‘timeless’: any need of it? (3,4,3) 11 Distracted wives romance soldier (12) 15 Atop donkey is Greek millionaire (7) 16 Recipients of ‘horse’ in jars not happy (7) 17 Winged beast with rising stench, regularly in rage (7) 19 Summer in France, sun hidden, snarl up lasting forever (7) 20 OK... oddjobber taking year to become reliable type (5-4,3) 23 Scupper long tree (6,4) 24 Source of music in Antipodes (4) 25 Next, I reply clumsily, clumsily (10) 26 Goddess seen in pigsties now and again (4)  Down  1 Plan to spend a penny? (3-2-3-2) 2 Wild Australian revelry (10) 4 Football team runs, gets exasperated (7) 5 Starters of duck egg fried, potato cake shortly put in microwave? (7) 6 Islander to intone a critical review describing mineral deposit (11) 7 Cockney’s intoxicating, in a whirl (4) 8 Pugs’ playthings? (4) 12 Resort trip a fiasco, I confess (3,1,4,3) 13 Much champagne pours out without hint of restraint: great work! (6,4) 14 Guides plan a descent taking in waterside walks (10) 18 Theatre work... um... nonstarter (2-5) 19 Essential to hooch, a naturally occurring liquid, primarily? (7) 21 It’s a flipping fizzy wine (4) 22 Noisily rise, being peeved (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3171/article36923516.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||State of Terror||Louise Penny, Hillary Rodham Clinton  Simon & Schuster Rs. 650 After a tumultuous period in American politics, a new administration is sworn in. Then Anahita Dahir, a young foreign service officer in the State Department, receives an anonymous text and so starts an international chess game involving nuclear weapons, the Russian mob, and a rogue terrorist organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/state-of-terror/article36923476.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Noise Cancellation||Jhilam Chattaraj  Hawakal Publishers Rs. 350 These are poems about simple things — the beauty of block prints, the pain of a homeless dog, the dilemma of online classes, the joy of holding a fistful of wet earth. These sensations are the poems’ core. They nourish the mind grown weary of the chaos of the present world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/noise-cancellation/article36923478.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The Dead Don’t Talk||Sumit Ghosal  Om Books Rs. 295 In this thriller, private investigator Rudradeep Ray and his best friend Sujit solve a case in 70s’ Calcutta by contending with hostile witnesses and perplexing clues. No one is what they appear to be and almost every member of the prosperous Ganguly family has a motive in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dead-dont-talk/article36923467.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Fire and blood||“Dreams didn’t make us kings; dragons did.” Released last week, HBO’s one-minute teaser for its upcoming fantasy seriesHouse of the Dragon, a prequel toGame of Thrones, left a hungry fandom clamouring for more. The show’s first season, with 10 episodes, is scheduled to premiere in 2022. Set 200 years beforeGame of Thrones, it’s based on George R.R. Martin’s 2018 bookFire & Blood, which chronicles the dragon-riding Targaryen dynasty and their rule over Westeros. At the height of their power, the royal house is divided as the realm slowly walks down the road to war between rival male and female claimants to the throne, a conflict that would come to be known as the Dance of the Dragons. It’s often thought to have been inspired by the real-life Anarchy, a vicious struggle between King Stephen and Empress Matilda for the English throne in the 12th century. Law and order suffered greatly during this chaotic time, of which a chronicler wrote, “Christ and his saints were asleep.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fire-and-blood/article36923457.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||New normal||A year ago, on October 5, the Mathura police arrested Siddique Kappan, a journalist from Kerala, and three travelling companions. They were on their way to Hathras, to meet the family of the Dalit girl who had died after being gang-raped. They were detained allegedly in apprehension of a breach of peace, but were later charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, sedition, and other offences. Last week, journalists from several unions staged a protest to mark one year of Kappan’s arrest and demanded his release. Besides a few days to visit his dying mother, Kappan’s bail requests have all been turned down, and he has alleged being tortured in custody. He fell ill and was admitted to AIIMS, New Delhi, by a Supreme Court order, before being spirited back to Mathura by the police. In April, the police’s Special Task Force submitted a 5,000-page chargesheet that, among other things, accused Kappan of not being a “responsible” journalist, of writing to “incite Muslims”, and of sympathising with “Maoists and Communists.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/new-normal/article36923459.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday REcipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article36923455.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Why three countries have paused Moderna vaccine||On October 6, Sweden and Denmark suspended the use of Moderna’s mRNA vaccine for younger age groups after reports pointed to an increase in the number of myocarditis and pericarditis cases. Myocarditis causes inflammation of heart muscle which can limit the organ’s ability to pump blood and can cause changes in heartbeat rhythms, while pericarditis causes inflammation of the outer lining of the heart. A day later, Finland followed suit and paused the use of the Moderna vaccine in people younger than 30 years. Both Finland Health institute and the Swedish Public Health Agency now recommend Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine for people younger than 30 years as there is greater experience with the vaccine in this age group. The Swedish Agency said its decision is valid till December 1 this year. Slightly higher risk “A Nordic study involving Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark found that men under the age of 30 who received Moderna Spikevax had a slightly higher risk than others of developing myocarditis,” Mika Salminen, director of the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare told Reuters.  The Swedish Public Health Agency said that the connection [of myocarditis and pericarditis] is “especially clear when it comes to Moderna vaccine Spikevax, especially after the second dose”. For an individual, the risk of being affected by myocarditis and pericarditis is small. Questions on risk Meanwhile, the U.K., Hong Kong and Norway, have recommended administering only a single dose of the Pfizer vaccine for children aged 12 years and older. On why the Moderna vaccine has a relatively increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose compared with Pfizer, Immunologist Dr. Satyajit Rath, formerly with the Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology says in an email that since the serious adverse events are extremely rare it is not even absolutely certain that there is really an increase in this ‘risk’ of myocarditis with the Moderna vaccine over the Pfizer vaccine. “The two vaccines have not been used in the same populations, and there may well be differences in the people who have received one versus the other which could contribute to this so-called difference in risk (rather than the vaccine),” says Dr. Rath. “Some minor difference in the chemical composition of the two vaccines may have contributed to this so-called risk; even though they are both mRNA vaccines, they are not identical.” He also mentions the higher dosage of 100 microgram used in the Moderna vaccine compared with 30 microgram for Pfizer might be another possibility. Just one dose “One dose provides good protection against a severe disease course, and the protection will probably be better among adolescents at this age than for older age groups,” says Camilla Stoltenberg, Director-General of the Norwegian Institute of Public Health in a release. “We consider that the offer of one dose provides the clearest benefit for the individual adolescent when the benefit is weighed against possible disadvantages of the vaccine. The second dose will be considered when there is more knowledge from other countries that have come further in the vaccination of this age group.” Studies in Israel have shown that within six months there is a reduction in vaccine effectiveness in preventing infection after two doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Based on this data, Dr. Rath says there is no evidence to indicate how long a single dose of COVID vaccines will remain effective for. “I do not expect that duration to be dramatically different from the one in adults. But in the first place, that is simply a guess, and in the second place, we have no idea of such a duration with a single dose even in adults,” he says. Young adults, adolescents and young children rarely suffer from severe disease. However, they are likely to get infected and transmit the virus to others even while not suffering from COVID-19 disease. Vaccination of adolescents and young children can help in breaking the transmission chain. But should young adults, adolescents and young children, who are not at great risk of severe risk, be given two doses of even the Pfizer vaccine that has an extremely small risk of causing inflammation of the heart for the sake of breaking the transmission chain? “The greatest transmission-limiting effect of the vaccines is achieved when two vaccine doses are given. The NIPH [Norwegian Institute of Public Health] has assessed that for this age group [12-15 years], which to a lesser extent than adults and older adolescents has contributed to transmission. The individual considerations of offering vaccination are more important than the benefit to society of limiting transmission,” the NIPH said in a release. Even earlier, evidence showed a tiny risk of myocarditis and pericarditis when young adults received the second dose of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. The risk was overwhelmingly seen in males and after the second dose. “It is hard to get any grip on why males are more affected, because we have no idea, even if it turns out to be a real and reliable association (between vaccine and illness), what the mechanism involved is,” says Dr. Rath. “We do know that, independent of COVID-19 disease or vaccines, myocarditis is somewhat more common in men than in women. But again, we have no clarity about why this is so.” Resolves on its own Now, two studies published in The New England Journal of Medicine have reported based on field data that myocarditis is extremely rare and predominantly seen in males and is mild. The condition resolves on its own within a month. The first NEJM study found that of the nearly 5.1 million people vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine between December 20, 2020 and May 31, 2021 in Israel only 136 cases of myocarditis were reported. Of the 136 cases, 129 people (95%) had only mild myocarditis. The study found that the incidence of myocarditis after two doses of vaccination was highest among males. They found that myocarditis occurred in the population at a “rate of approximately 1 per 26,000 males and 1 per 2,18,000 females after the second vaccine dose, with the highest risk again among young male recipients”. The study also found that the “overall risk difference between the first and second doses was 1.76 per 100,000 persons with the largest difference among male recipients between the ages of 16 and 19 years”. The second study published in NEJM carried out in Israel looked at the incidence of myocarditis after full vaccination with the Pfizer vaccine in a large health-care organisation. The study found 54 cases of myocarditis from 2.5 million vaccinated health-care organisation members aged 16 years and above. In all, 76% of cases of myocarditis were mild, and the highest incidence (10.69 cases per 1,00,000 persons) was reported in male patients between the ages of 16 and 29 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-three-countries-have-paused-moderna-vaccine/article36923613.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||NRC backs Linear No-Threshold model for radiation safety||Now it is official. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) decisively upheld the Linear No-Threshold model to prescribe radiation safety standards, ending the protracted controversy on the topic. Radiation protection specialists worldwide were eagerly awaiting the NRC’s decision. Over six years ago, during February 2015, Dr. Carol S. Marcus, Mr. Mark L. Miller, Certified Health Physicist, and Dr. Mohan Doss, and others, through three petitions requested the NRC, “to amend its regulations based on what they assert is new science and evidence that contradicts the linear no-threshold (LNT) dose-effect model that serves as the basis for the NRC’s radiation protection regulations." The model The LNT model states that biological effects such as cancer and hereditary effects due to exposure to ionising radiation increase as a linear function of dose, without threshold. The petitioners support “radiation hormesis,” a concept that posits that low doses of ionising radiation protect against the deleterious effects of high doses of radiation and result in beneficial effects to humans. The NRC denied the three petitions because they failed to present an adequate basis supporting the request to discontinue use of the LNT model. “The NRC has determined that the LNT model continues to provide a sound regulatory basis for minimizing the risk of unnecessary radiation exposure to both members of the public and radiation workers. Therefore, the NRC will maintain the current dose limit requirements,” the NRC declared recently. Petitioners’ proposed substantial increase in dose limits to workers; raise the public dose limits to be the same as the worker doses; end differential doses to pregnant women, embryos and fetuses, and children less than 18 years of age; remove the As Low As Is Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) principle entirely from the regulations because they claim that ‘‘it makes no sense to decrease radiation doses that are not only harmless but may be hormetic’’. No proof of a threshold “Convincing evidence has not yet demonstrated the existence of a threshold below which there would be no stochastic effects from exposure to low radiation doses. As such, the NRC’s view is that the LNT model continues to provide a sound basis for a conservative radiation protection regulatory framework that protects both the public and occupational workers. Despite the various studies cited by the petitioners, uncertainty and lack of consensus persist in the scientific community about the health effects of low doses of radiation.” the NRC, asserted. The LNT model helps the agencies to regulate radiation exposures to diverse categories of licensees, from commercial nuclear power plants to individual industrial radiographers and nuclear medical practices. The NRC noted that although there are studies and other scholarly papers that support the petitioners’ assertions, there are also studies and findings that support the continued use of the LNT model, including those by national and international authoritative scientific advisory bodies.  Endorsed by authority Authoritative scientific advisory bodies such as the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National Council for Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP), the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), that have a specialty in the area of radiation protection support the continued use of the LNT model. The National Cancer Institute (NCI), the National Institute of Occupational safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) also endorse the use of LNT model. The NRC gave due weight to NCRP Commentary No. 27: ‘‘Implications of Recent Epidemiologic Studies for the Linear-Non-threshold Model and Radiation Protection,’’ released in April 2018. The commentary assesses currently available epidemiological evidence and concludes that the LNT model should continue to be utilised for radiation protection purposes. The NRC received over 3,200 comment submissions, with 635 of those being unique, including submissions from certified health physicists, nuclear medicine professionals, scientific associations, federal agencies and concerned citizens. There were 100 unique comment submissions that agreed with the petitioners. The NRC responded to all questions. Its procedures to arrive at its decision are a model for other regulators to emulate. (Details available at The Federal Register: The Daily Journal of the United States Government, proposed rule - Linear No-Threshold Model and Standards for Protection Against Radiation.)  (The writer is a former Secretary, Atomic Energy Regulatory Board.   ksparth@yahoo.co.uk)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nrc-backs-linear-no-threshold-model-for-radiation-safety/article36923602.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Mergers of black holes and ‘kicks’ that hold a key to puzzles||Scientists from Chennai Mathematical Institute, with their collaborators, have analysed data from the LIGO-VIRGO observatories and estimated the fraction of the binary black hole mergers detected so far that show potential to form intermediate mass black holes. This throws light on the puzzle of how intermediate mass black holes form. Black holes form when a massive star undergoes a supernova explosion towards the end of its lifetime. The black hole forms from the remnants of the explosion. However, there are factors that place limits on the mass of a black hole so formed. According to physicist K.G. Arun of Chennai Mathematical Institute, black holes with masses between approximately 45-135 times the solar mass are unlikely to be produced by standard stellar evolution as the pair-instability process either limits the max mass of the black hole or completely disrupts the star during the supernova explosion. What puzzles astronomers and cosmologists is that gravitational wave detectors have seen several such “intermediate mass black holes”. The two detectors of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO) made the first observation of a pair of binary black holes on September 19, 2014. Since then with other gravitational wave observatories about 40 mergers have been detected, of which nearly five have masses above 100 times solar mass. One of the theories of intermediate mass black hole formation has to do with ‘hierarchical growth’. That is, if the black holes exist among a dense cluster of stars, the remnant (black hole) of a merger can pair up with another black hole close by to form a binary. This can eventually merge to form a second remnant which is more massive. This process, happening in a hierarchical manner, can explain intermediate mass black hole formation.  Kicks in mergers During the mergers, gravitational waves take away energy and linear momentum, as a reaction, the remnant black hole acquires an opposite momentum. This is the “kick” it receives. These kicks can be quite large, giving it a velocity of up to 1000 kilometres per second. If this kick velocity is above the escape velocity of the star cluster in which the black hole is formed, it literally escapes from the environment and moves out. This prevents it from undergoing further hierarchical mergers. The extent of the kick received by the remnant can be calculated from the masses of the merging black holes and their spin. “As GW observations give an estimate of these, we can calculate the kick imparted to every remnant black hole in the population of binary black holes reported by LIGO/Virgo till date,” says Parthapratim Mahapatra, Ph. D. student, Chennai Mathematical Institute, who is the first author of a paper on this work published in The Astrophysical Journal Letters. The kick estimates help understand which mergers have the possibility of undergoing further hierarchical mergers and forming into intermediate mass black holes. There have been recent studies using astrophysical models to understand whether the components of some of the binaries are formed hierarchically. “This is a complementary approach as we are interested in the prospects of the remnants participating in further mergers and not whether the observed binaries contain one or more of the black holes which are hierarchically formed,” says Prof. Arun, in whose lab the work was done, in an email to The Hindu. Using the state-of-the-art understanding of the escape speeds of star clusters and using the kick magnitudes they have inferred for different observed events, the group has calculated what fraction of the remnants may remain in-cluster (provided they originally merged in the cluster). “We find that as many as 17 out of 40 remnants may be retained by the nuclear star clusters,” says Prof. Arun.  The extent of the kick received by the remnant is calculated from the masses and spins of the merging black holes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/mergers-of-black-holes-and-kicks-that-hold-a-key-to-puzzles/article36923605.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Daring dragonflies||How far can globe skimmer dragonflies fly? In 2009, it was hypothesised that globe skimmer dragonflies (Pantala flavescens) can migrate thousands of kilometres across the Indian Ocean, from India via the Maldives to Africa, and back again. Now, an international research team led by Lund University in Sweden used models and simulations to verify this. Marine biologist Charles Anderson observed globe skimmer dragonflies in Maldives, which had flown in from, he assumed, India. When they flew off again, it was towards East Africa. Since the dragonflies are too small to be fitted with transmitters, the researchers examined physiological aspects and calculated how long a globe skimmer dragonfly could stay airborne using the energy that can be stored in its body. In addition, the researchers used meteorological wind models to determine if there are winds that can facilitate the migration. The found that it was indeed possible for the dragonflies to migrate from India to East Africa and return to India. The globe skimmer dragonfly does not rely on fat stored in its body to fly such long distances. Instead, it takes advantage of favourable winds present during certain periods of the year. According to the simulated migration experiments using wind models, about 15% of the dragonflies could manage the migration from India to Africa in the spring. In the autumn, 40% could make the same journey in the opposite direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/daring-dragonflies/article36923603.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Hey, like me!||For nearly 10 years, I have been an avid Facebook user enthralling my 11.3 followers on a daily basis with my unique brand of wit and wisdom. Yet, I don’t seem to understand how the platform works. And it’s frustrating. Readers, please help. Locked profile friend requests How does one get to do both, lock one’s profile and seek friendships? Is that okay on social media? Because if one did it in real life, it would be the equivalent of the disembodied voice in the dark alley going ‘pssst, hey, pssssst, you, come here, I say, yes, you only in green shirt and pink pants with the funny hair’ and actually expecting you to walk up to that pitch-black corner behind the dumpster, step over that dead bandicoot, stick out your hand and say ‘Hey, human, beast or alien, I’m totally not creeped out by this at all. So glad to meet you.’ My request to all those sending me locked profile friend requests, kindly message me your business plan. Do you just want to continue lurking but as a friend? Do you desire me because I’m Telugu? Is it to ask me if Serendipitesh Devulapalli of Little Rock, Arkansas, is my cousin-sister’s co-brother? Are you hoping I’ll become your fan? Do you think I’ll immediately help have your article published in The N ew Y ork T imes ? Is it to send other folk on my friends’ list — especially the women — friend requests? Do you need me to promote your Ayurvedic upholstery business? Have you gone off your medication? Let me know so I can ready my tariff. Invite to like Isn’t liking and disliking a kind of voluntary thing? And, in real life, don’t we like people only after we get to know them and they behave in a likeable manner? So how is it that I get notifications on a daily basis from complete strangers — who’ve never once interacted with me — inviting me to like their eco-friendly cucumber jewellery business or their organic bullets for small-calibre guns enterprise? In real life, do these people tap random folks on the shoulder, and go ‘Hey, I invite you to touch me inappropriately.’ Would they be okay if the invitee RSVP-ed with a punch in their kisser? Cross-legged pose Ladies, sorry, but you’ve been totally had by a top-notch prankster. I speak of the fashion guru who’s perpetuated this myth that when you pose for pics that you want to upload, the cool, sophisticated, slimming way to do it is by crossing your legs while standing. Sorry. That just looks like the photographer stopped you as you were rushing to the loo and insisted you pose for a pic. Any time I see a pic like this, instead of seeing poised, elegant women having a cool night out, I am reminded of that scene from The Party where Peter Sellers has to go, and is thwarted at every step, and pretends he’s appreciating the music being played by the band as his bladder is about to give up. So unless that’s the look you're going for, dear ladies, perhaps best to desist. Photo with birthday boy Finally, when did this kind of a birthday greeting become a thing? How loserly is that? Years ago, when their teacher asked them what they would be when they grew up, did these serial photo wishers go ‘Teacher, teacher, when I grow up, my life’s ambition is to be that guy who regularly posts pics of himself standing with whosever’s birthday it is that day.’ Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hey-like-me/article36924094.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Mental health on your sleeve||Be it suicide prevention or de-stigmatising issues of the mind, a look at fashion brands in India promoting ‘Mental Health in an Unequal World’, the 2021 theme for World Mental Health Day (October 10). Exhale Label, Mumbai The ‘clothing brand with a conscience’, known for collections based on real people and their mental health struggles, is leading with a T-shirt collection for men set to launch this month. “There aren’t a lot of men who open up about their struggles. This year, we’ve based our new launch, titled ‘Share the Load’, on the stories of five men, and hope it inspires others to talk about their mental health issues,” says founder Palak Shah, adding that the concept is aimed at encouraging men and women to share the ‘load’ of household chores. Soon, Shah will also launch an eight-piece collection for kids given how “the mental health of children has taken a toll due to the pandemic”. Rs. 1,000 onwards on exhalelabel.com Redwolf, Mumbai Featuring curated artworks from artists across the globe, check out the independent clothing and merchandise label’s T-shirts this month. Don’t miss their collaboration with mental health start-up, Now&Me — a collection of cotton tees themed on kindness and positivity. Rs. 599 on redwolf.in Madhappy, Los Angeles, USA Launched in 2017 with the idea of prioritising mental health as much as physical fitness, the brand’s September launch is a collaboration with Pixar Animation Studios. Featuring hoodies, shorts, caps, and more, it “takes inspiration from Pixar‘s accomplishment, to create emotional connections through their storytelling” and encourages people to “collaborate, be creative, express yourself”. Sale proceeds go to The Jed Foundation (JED), a non-profit working in the suicide prevention space for teenagers and young adults. Approximately Rs. 11,000 onwards on madhappy.com  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mental-health-on-your-sleeve/article36924202.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Walking tall in an ocean plastic gown||Usually, the phrase ‘sustainable chic’ isn’t used in the context of an eveningwear brand. It loosely implies ethically-sourced, organic, breathable fabrics. Designer Gaurav Gupta, however, is attempting to redefine the lexicon of sustainability at the ongoing FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week, with his Lakmé Absolute Grand Finale outing today — a drive-in, physical show. Kareena Kapoor (“a self-made artiste with a sense of humour,” according to Gupta) will be the showstopper. “With ‘#Redefine’, I am challenging how people look at sustainability, which is always viewed as either daywear or organic. I make sculpted couture evening gowns; hence, I wanted to make sustainability sexy,” he says. What inspired the designer to embrace a path of eco-conscious couture? “When I was diving in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands earlier this year, the amount of plastic I saw in the ocean and on the beaches was just shocking. It’s different when you see it digitally, and a completely moving visual when you see it in person,” he recalls.  Keep the dialogue going  Of late, several labels have been trying to go partly or fully sustainable in their practices. A few months ago, on World Oceans Day, designer duo Shivan Bhatiya and Narresh Kukreja announced their sustainable swimwear range, manufactured from fabrics derived from recycled ocean waste. Internationally, luxury watch brands such as Breitling and Ulysse Nardin have put plastic ocean waste to good use as cases or straps. So, did Gupta have a sustainable model while conceptualising this line? “I am not claiming to be fully sustainable, and I don’t think any brand in the world can claim this,” he points out. “As long as there’s some point of consumerism, it isn’t sustainable. And sustainability is relative — if certain brands use it as a marketing tool, it’s their situation. But consumers today are very aware and [in the long run, such strategies] won’t take the brands anywhere. Meanwhile, the dialogue on sustainability has to go on.” Glamour with heart For Gupta, his sustainable journey started a while ago when he’d visit his factory and see plastic covering every garment. “We started working on it three to four years back. It took us some time to find the right resources [Waste2Wear] to make jacket covers from ocean and landfill plastic,” says the designer, who tries to incorporate eco-friendly practices in his everyday life, by using his electric car and saying no to plastic bags. Now, he has extended it to his garments too — with fabric from EcoKaari. For him, the 48-piece evening wear collection is a statement — with couture, demi-couture, and ready-to-wear. When quizzed about the fact that sustainability escalates price points, he says, “I do couture and demi-couture, and I use luxury fabrics [this collection also includes silver and gold lamé, sequins, jersey, and neoprene]. Here, I have literally taken plastic from the ocean or land, woven it into my fabric, and draped it as a glamorous gown. That’s a direct way — both artistic capability and thought process come into play here. Pricing has more to do with material cost and labour hours, but sustainability needn’t always be expensive. For me, it’s about finding the right resource.” #Redefine could well be the first of many sustainable lines to come from Gupta’s stable. Also, keeping in mind recent developments in Indian fashion, is he considering corporate investment? While he doesn’t mind considering it, he states that “it requires a lot of planning and strategy, and, right now, I am happy with where I am”.  Watch Gaurav Gupta’s show at 9.30 pm. Details:lakmefashionweek.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/walking-tall-in-an-ocean-plastic-gown/article36924099.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘BJP leader’s brother-in-law, 2 others let off in rave party case’||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Saturday alleged that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which claimed to have busted a rave party on board a cruise ship last week, had detained Rishabh Sachdeva, the brother-in-law of former Mumbai BJP youth wing president Mohit Kumbhoj aka Mohit Bhartiya, and two others, but let them off later. An NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shahrukh Khan. Mr. Malik showed photographs and videos of the three individuals — Sachdeva, Pratik Gabha and Amir Furniturewala — walking into and then leaving the NCB office. He alleged that they were let off after officials received phone calls from BJP leaders in Delhi. “Call records of these individuals and also that of NCB official Sameer Wankhede should be checked by Mumbai police. The truth will come out,” he said. The Minister said he would write to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a high-level probe by the Mumbai police. Responding to the allegations at a press conference, the NCB said some of those who were detained were allowed to leave due to the lack of evidence. “The agency does its work as per the law. We are not biased and do not discriminate on any other basis,” said Mr. Wankhede. “A total of 14 persons were brought to NCB Zonal Office for examination. All of them were served notice u/s 67, examined thoroughly and their statements were recorded. Thereafter 8 persons were arrested and remaining 6 persons were let off since no incriminating evidence was found against them. However, in the course of investigation they can be associated if need arises as per law,” the NCB said in a statement. ‘Check CCTV footage’ Earlier, Mr. Malik said CCTV footage of the cruise and areas connected to the case should be checked by the police along with the phone calls of the three people and that of Mr. Wankhede. “Rishabh Sachdeva’s family members were also seen in the NCB office. How were they allowed to enter the NCB office?” asked Mr. Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-leaders-brother-in-law-2-others-let-off-in-rave-party-case/article36923902.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Wearing a billboard||Would you wear tarpaulin? Or billboard flex and seat belts? What if we told you they come as eco-cool sling bags, fanny packs and back packs? Friday’s Sustainable Fashion Day at FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week saw three-year-old Goa-based brand Bandit unveil its Shourai Collection. Shourai means ‘the future’ in Japanese, explains founder Satyajit Vetoskar, also the winner of this year’s Circular Design Challenge 3.0 (a platform to showcase innovative ideas using materials from diverse waste sources). And soon, the futuristic collection will add ponchos, messenger bags and yoga mat bags — all made with their trademark tarp. Bandit sources its tarp from ISO-9001 certified factories that export the material. “Very often what we buy is considered ‘waste’ because their clients have issues with colour or the warp. We use the colours we get, and therein lies the beauty because you will never find the same product again with us,” says the designer and architect, who holds a Masters in Industrial Design. Flex for the future Vetoskar had initially wanted to do something with cinema billboards, but the idea never panned out. Then, four years ago, he had his Eureka moment — just as his flight descended into Mumbai. The sea of blue tarpaulin used as roofing for shanties in the slums around the airport caught his eye. “Can you make stunning products using a material that is common and simple? That was the driving thought,” he recalls. Over the last year, Bandit has been experimenting with flex from billboards, too, to create two lines of products: a commercial line of bags, and a charitable range of sleeping bags and tents for the homeless. “The idea is to create a range of open-source design products that can be replicated. After all, upcycling is about giving back,” he shares. Currently, they are in talks with Goonj, an NPO that focusses on providing used clothing during disasters, to create lining for the tents and sleeping bags. Flex, usually a difficult material to work (because it becomes brittle with sun exposure) is great for the latter, as it provides warmth. “We will be presenting this project at UNEP [United Nations Environment Programme] next month. The flex is sourced from two outdoor agencies in Mumbai,” he says. Pens from aircraft aluminium Another project is a range of fountain pens made from recycled materials — aircraft aluminium, brass from melted artillery shells (sourced from the Army and Pune’s famous Juna Bazaar), and wood from old handloom spindles — to counter the culture of use-and-throw plastic ballpoint pens. “This happened by chance, when a friend from design school, who loves fountain pens, and I got talking with another friend who repairs aircraft! It was just a matter of joining the dots.” Meanwhile, brand Bandit is also working with various collaborators for their myriad products — from musicians, artists, and skateboarders (Bandit is creating carry cases for skateboards), to graffiti artists. The latest: a collab with jewellery brand Moksh to create a jewellery line that brings together repurposed metals such as aluminium and copper with gold and diamonds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wearing-a-billboard/article36924093.ece
10 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD promises jobs scheme for urban workers||Continuing with its Dalit outreach, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Saturday promised a new scheme for urban labour on the lines of the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) if voted to power. Promising guaranteed income for urban labour in the unorganised sector, the announcement was made by party president Jayant Singh on the occasion of the death anniversary of Kanshi Ram, who founded the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). “Those working in the unorganised sector in urban areas don’t get the benefits of government schemes. In the memory of Kanshi Ramji, we are including a special scheme for the urban labour in our manifesto that will provide them a protective cover and help in their economic growth. It will be named after Kanshi Ramji and help in providing a dignified life to the urban poor,” the RLD chief said. The announcement was made as the party concluded its Nyay Yatra with a rally in Agra. Mr. Chaudhary said Kanshi Ram gave voice to the deprived sections of society. “The young generation should be inspired to complete his unfinished goals. As part of the Nyay Yatra, RLD workers reached out to the underprivileged,” he said. Invoking the founder of the BSP in Agra, known as the Dalit capital of Uttar Pradesh, is being seen as an attempt to reach out to bahujan vote bank. With Chandrashekhar Azad of the Azad Samaj Party showing interest in a seat-sharing arrangement with the Samajwadi Party and the RLD, the announcement’s impact will be watched in the coming days. Prashant Kanojia, in-charge of the RLD’s SC/ST cell, appealed to public not to forget how farmers were mowed down in Lakhimpur and how Mr. Singh was lathi-charged when he went to meet the family of the Hathras gangrape and murder victim. “The impact of the lathi was felt by the Dalit community,” he said. ‘Reservation would go’ The way this government is selling everything to private players, Mr Kanojia warned, if the BJP was voted back to power, it would do away with reservation for the SCs and the STs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rld-promises-guaranteed-income-for-urban-workers/article36923900.ece
10 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam author awaits govt. help||An Assamese author has sought support from the State government for expensive treatment for spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) that she has been suffering from. Sarmistha Pritam Baruah, based at Phulaguri in central Assam’s Nagaon district, has also advocated a health scheme for people suffering from SMA, a rare degenerative and crippling neuromuscular disease that requires medicines – now available in India – worth at least Rs. 4 crore at Rs. 72 lakh per annum for up to nine years. Following her appeal, Assam Health Minister Keshab Mahanta had visited the wheelchair-bound Ms Baruah at her residence on August 22. He had assured some action after discussion with Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “I am still awaiting some communication from the government,” she told The Hindu on October 9. Several awards A life member of Ellora Vigyan Mancha, a non-profit making NGO for spreading scientific temper and promoting organ donation, Ms Baruah has won several literary awards. She was diagnosed with SMA at the age of 5 years. “My parents arranged physiotherapy sessions according to the doctor’s advice for the first few years but it was discontinued after some time. They did not know much about SMA at that time and my condition deteriorated due to wrong treatment plans,” she said. Ms. Baruah has been facing hardships after Alzheimer’s disease took a toll on her father and her mother started suffering from hypertension and backache. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-author-awaits-govt-help/article36924112.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||Services won’t be hit during Maharashtra bandh: MVA allies||All three ruling parties in Maharashtra on Saturday said that essential services won't be hit in the State bandh called on Monday, October 11, to protest against the killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party held a joint press conference on Saturday announcing that all three parties will join the bandh with full force. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said his party will participate in the October 11 bandh in Maharashtra. ‘Bandh necessary’ Addressing a press conference along with NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik and State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, Mr. Raut said the bandh was necessary to wake people up against the antifarmer policies of the Central government. “Farmers are not alone in this fight and the process of showing solidarity with them must begin from Maharashtra,” said Mr. Raut. The Shiv Sena leader said he had discussed the need for a joint opposition strategy with NCP’s Sharad Pawar and Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, adding that other States must follow Maharashtra’s lead to express solidarity with farmers. NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday had asked his party members to peacefully but effectively take part in the bandh. Congress too has already extended its support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/services-wont-be-hit-during-maharashtra-bandh-mva-allies/article36923897.ece
10 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Scholarships for meritorious students||Meritorious students from Rajasthan are set to study in the top 50 academic institutions of the world, including Oxford, Harvard and Stanford Universities, with a first-of-its-kind scholarship announced by the State government. Two hundred students will go abroad on the scholarship, starting from the current academic session. The Rajiv Gandhi scholarship for academic excellence will provide an annual maintenance allowance of Rs. 10 lakh and bear the entire cost of studies, including the tuition fee, visa fee and travel fare for the students. 30% of the scholarship awards will be given to girl students. Minister of State for Higher Education Bhanwar Singh Bhati said here on Saturday that the subjects related to humanities would be considered for the scholarship at the graduation level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scholarships-for-meritorious-students/article36924289.ece
10 October 2021||Kanpur,||Trader’s murder: police hike reward||The State police on Saturday increased the reward to Rs. 1 lakh for information on each of the six policemen booked in the murder case of a Kanpur business. Property dealer Manish Gupta was allegedly thrashed by the policemen in a Gorkahpur hotel last month, leading to his death. Earlier, police had announced a reward of Rs. 25,000 for information leading to the arrest of the each of them. Police Commissioner Asim Arun said the cash reward has been announced on Inspector Jagat Narain Singh, Sub-Inspectors Akshay Kumar Mishra, Vijay Yadav, Rahul Dubey, Head Constable Kamlesh Singh Yadav and Constable Prashant Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traders-murder-police-hike-reward/article36924110.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Flowers for puja||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flowers-for-puja/article36924116.ece
10 October 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai Police summons CBI director||Cyber Cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned CBI director and former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswl in a phone tapping and data leak case, a senior official said here. Mr. Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The summons was sent by email, he added. The case relates to the `leak’ of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the State intelligence department (SID). Mr. Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period. It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Ms. Shukla or any other official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mumbai-police-summons-cbi-director/article36924111.ece
10 October 2021||Raipur,||Kawardha clash: Chhattisgarh govt. admits ‘minor lapse’||The ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh on Saturday blamed the BJP for the violence in Kawardha town of the State early this week and said the party wants to do the politics of communalism as it has “run out of issues”. Addressing a press conference here, three senior Ministers of State, however, admitted a “minor lapse” on part of the local administration to check the entry of a large number of people in Kawardha from outside ahead of the violence despite section 144 of the CrPC was imposed. On Tuesday, violence occurred in Kawardha during a rally organised by right-wing outfits in protest against a clash between the people belonging to two communities over the removal of religious flags from a thoroughfare in the town on October 3, causing destruction of properties. A curfew was imposed following the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kawardha-clash-chhattisgarh-govt-admits-minor-lapse/article36923895.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Heat and touch||The story so far: The 2021 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was jointly awarded to David Julius, 66, at the University of California, San Francisco, and Ardem Patapoutian, 54, at Scripps Research, La Jolla, California, “for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch”. What is the significance of their work? The two researchers discovered the molecular mechanism by which our body senses temperature and touch. Being able to do this opens the field for a lot of practical chemistry whereby individual cells and pathways can be tweaked, suppressed or activated to quell pain or sensation. How the body senses external stimuli is among the oldest excursions of natural philosophy. Entire schools of philosophy were based on speculating how the senses influenced the nature of the reality we perceive. Only when physiology developed as an independent discipline and anatomy came into its own did it become widely accepted that specific sensations were the result of different categories of nerves getting stimulated. Thus, a caress or a punch induces cells in our bodies to react differently and convert into specific patterns of electrical stimulation that is then conveyed via the nerves to the central nervous system. Since the Nobel Prizes came to be, at least three of them were for establishing key principles for how sensations travelled along skin and muscle sensory nerve fibres. Much like the length, thickness, material and incident force on their strings elicit specific tones out of a guitar or a piano, there are specific nerve fibre types that in tandem create a response to touch, heat and proprioception, or the sense of our body’s movement and position in space. However, the prominence of molecular biology means that physiology wanted to go a level deeper and find out what specific proteins and which genes are responsible in this symphony of the nerves. What is the contribution of David Julius towards this? Capsaicin (8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide), the active component of chili peppers, generates the burning sensation when eating spicy food. Studies on capsaicin showed that when it acted on sensory nerves it induced ionic currents, or the gush of charged particles along a membrane. In the late 1990s, Professor Julius pursued a project to identify a nerve receptor for capsaicin. He thought that understanding the action of capsaicin could provide insights into how the body sensed pain. He and his team went about this by looking for a gene that could induce a response to capsaicin in cells that usually wouldn’t react to it. They found one in a novel ion channel protein, later called TRPV1, where TRP stands for transient receptor potential, and VR1 is vanilloid receptor1. They were part of a super family of TRP and it was found that TRPV1 was activated when temperatures were greater than 40 degrees Celsius, which is close to the body’s pain threshold. Several other TRP channels were found, and this ion channel could be activated by various chemical substances, as well as by cold and heat in a way that differs between mammalian species. What did Ardem Patapoutian find? Growing up in Beirut as an Armenian, during the Lebanese Civil War, Patapoutian has related stories of being captured by militants at university, before he moved to the United States. Patapoutian and his colleagues were working on how pressure and force affected cells. Following an approach similar to that of Professor Julius, they identified 72 potential genes that could encode an ion channel receptor and trigger sensitivity to mechanical force, and it emerged that one of them coded for a novel ion channel protein, called Piezo1. Via Piezo1, a second gene was discovered and named Piezo2. Sensory neurons were found to express high levels of Piezo2 and further studies firmly established that Piezo1 and Piezo2 are ion channels that are directly activated by the exertion of pressure on cell membranes. The breakthrough by Professor Patapoutian led to a series of papers from his and other groups, demonstrating that the Piezo2 ion channel is essential for the sense of touch. Moreover, Piezo2 was shown to play a key role in proprioception as well as regulate blood pressure, respiration and urinary bladder control. Independently of one another, Professor Julius and Professor Patapoutian used the chemical substance menthol to identify TRPM8, a receptor activated by cold. What applications do these discoveries have? Along with the discoveries of specific genes, proteins and pathways, the scientists pioneered experimental methods that allow insight into the structure of these pain and temperature sensors. The challenge for pain relieving drugs is to precisely target regions without causing imbalance in other necessary functions. These scientists’ work, the Nobel Prize committee said, significantly helped towards reaching that goal.  The challenge for pain relieving drugs is to precisely target regions without causing imbalance in other necessary functions. The two scientists’ work, the Nobel Prize committee said, significantly helped towards reaching that goal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heat-and-touch/article36923535.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Expo 2020 Dubai: India’s tech-heavy pavilion might be in the news for its ‘dynamic facade’ of kinetic panels and the movie hall (to screen over 100 Bollywood offerings), but there’s a lot else going on. China’s section, Light of China, features a robotic panda that shakes hands with visitors, and don’t miss the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket replica at the America pavilion. Until March 2022. expo2020dubai.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article36924095.ece
10 October 2021||October 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||Instagram and mental health: With Facebook’s internal research revealing how their photo-sharing app is leading to increasing anxiety and depression among teens, it’s time Mark Zuckerberg and team take note. If you’re looking for resources, Twitter’s ‘Lists’ - in time for World Mental Health Day, October 10 - features credible accounts to follow curated by Re:Set, The Live Love Laugh Foundation, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article36924098.ece
