12 October 2021||Srinagar,||5 Army men, 2 militants killed in four gunfights in J&K in a day||Five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), and two militants were killed in four encounters that raged between security forces and militants in different parts of Jammu and Kashmir within 12 hours on Monday. A massive combing operation was launched in the Pir Panjal Valley’s Surankote-Shahadra belt on Sunday night but the search party came under heavy fire on Monday morning from the militants, who may have infiltrated recently through the Line of Control in Poonch district. “Based on intelligence inputs, the Army on Monday launched a cordon and search operation in villages close to Dera Ki Gali in Surankote area of Poonch. In the ensuing firefight, one JCO and four jawans suffered critical injuries. They were evacuated to the nearest medical facility but died of their injuries,” Jammu-based Army spokesman Lt. Col. Devender Anand said. The deceased soldiers were identified as naib subedar Jaswinder Singh, naik Mandeep Singh, sepoy Gajjan Singh, all from Punjab; sepoy Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh; and sepoy Vaisakh H. from Kerala. “After the initial encounter, the terrorists fled to nearby Bhangai village, and the encounter is still in progress,” the Army said. Three to four heavily armed militants were suspected to be hiding in the tough terrain that has dense forest cover. The Army has not confirmed any casualty to the militants so far. Two militants killed In the Kashmir Valley, security forces killed two ultras, including a militant of The Resistance Front (TRF) that was behind a civilian killing last week, in two separate operations. TRF militant Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar was killed in Gund Jahangeer village of Hajin area of north Kashmir’s Bandipora. “The slain militant was involved in the recent killing of a civilian at Shahgund,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Muhammad Shafi Lone alias Sonu, a driver by profession, was among the five civilians killed in the Valley last week. However, Dar’s family alleged that he was picked up when he was harvesting the rice crop in the field and “killed in a staged encounter”. “Dar is innocent. He was at home when the civilian was killed earlier last week and was working in the field when he was picked up by the security forces,” the family members stated. The Bandipora police, however, refuted the family’s claims. Shootout in Anantnag In another operation in south Kashmir’s Anantnag, an unidentified militant was killed in the Khagund area. “On specific information, when the police went to pick up an over ground worker, the militant opened fire, and an gunfight followed,” the police said. The fourth encounter broke out in south Kashmir’s Shopian, where a group of militants is believed to be hiding in a residential colony. “The encounter started at Tulran in Imamsahab area of Shopian. Police and security forces are on the job,” a police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-jk-5-army-men-2-militants-killed-in-4-gunfights-in-12-hours/article36956141.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China commander talks end in impasse||The 13th round of senior military commander talks between India and China on Sunday ended in a stalemate, with each side blaming the other for it. In a statement, the Indian Army maintained that its side made “constructive suggestions” to resolve the “remaining areas”, while the Chinese military alleged that India made “unreasonable and unrealistic demands”. Infrastructure build-up The acrimony comes amid continuing build-up of troops and infrastructure by China on its side along the Line of Actual Control and as both sides are preparing to be deployed in the high altitude areas of eastern Ladakh for the second straight winter this year. The Monday morning Army statement read, “During the meeting, the Indian side, therefore, made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas.” The talks were held at Moldo on the Chinese side, with the focus on working out the third phase of disengagement from Patrolling Point 15 in Hot Springs as part of the overall disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements,” the Indian Army observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-commander-talks-end-in-impasse/article36956143.ece
12 October 2021||Stockholm,||Nobel for research on wages, jobs||The Nobel prize for economics was awarded on Monday to U.S.-based economist David Card for pioneering research that showed an increase in minimum wage does not lead to less hiring and that immigrants do not lower pay for native-born workers, challenging commonly held ideas. The prize was shared with two others for creating a way to study these types of societal issues. Canadian-born Dr. Card of the University of California, Berkeley, was awarded one half of the prize for his research on how minimum wage, immigration and education affect the labour market, while the other half was shared by Joshua Angrist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Dutch-born Guido Imbens from Stanford University for their framework for studying issues that can’t rely on traditional scientific methods. ‘Reshaped research’ The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said the three have “completely reshaped empirical work in the economic sciences.” Together, the three helped rapidly expand the use of “natural experiments”, or studies based on the observation of real-world data. Such research made economics more applicable to everyday life, provided policymakers with actual evidence on the outcomes of policies, and in time spawned a more popular approach to economics, epitomised by the bestseller Freakonomics by Stephen Dubner and Steven Levitt. In a study published in 1993, Dr. Card looked at what happened to jobs at fast-food restaurants Burger King, KFC, Wendy’s and Roy Rogers when New Jersey raised its minimum wage from $4.25 to $5.05, using restaurants in bordering eastern Pennsylvania as the control — or comparison — group. Contrary to previous studies, he and his research partner Alan Krueger, who died in 2019, found that an increase in the minimum wage had no effect on the number of employees. Dr. Card’s minimum wage research fundamentally altered economists’ views of such policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nobel-for-research-on-wages-jobs/article36956133.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Area near KIA terminal gets flooded after rains||People roping in tractors to reach the airport. Passengers wading through muddy water with their luggage. These were some of the scenes around Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) as heavy rains lashed the city late on Monday evening and night. At the airport itself, the terminal area where passengers alight from taxis and private cars was flooded. Passengers had to drag their luggage through the waterlogged area to reach the terminal. It was a nightmare for passengers to reach the airport. The approach road near Mylanahalli was inundated. People got a tractor to make their way to KIA. A video went viral on social media showing passengers wading through muddy water and clambering onto a tractor. “I have never seen this kind of waterlogging inside the airport campus. I had to pick up passengers from the arrival point. Starting from Ola, Uber parking points till Galamma circle the roads were flooded. Traffic was badly hit for more than two hours,” said Harish Kumar, a taxi driver. Waterlogging at CISF junction forced airport staff to redirect traffic movement in the area. “Many drivers parked their vehicles on the side of the road. Passengers had a tough time reaching the terminal area owing to traffic jam. Airport staff were guiding the drivers. Through social media we sent out messages asking motorists to avoid roads leading to CISF junction,” said Vinayaka, another taxi driver. A KIA spokesperson said, “Our team was immediately pressed into action and the issue has been resolved,” Poor weather conditions impacted flight operations. As of Monday evening, a total of 11 departing flights from Bengaluru to various destinations were delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/area-near-kia-terminal-gets-flooded-after-rains/article36956169.ece
12 October 2021||Pune,||Minor disturbances mark Maharashtra bandh||While the Maharashtra bandh on Monday called by the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance — comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress — generally received support from all sections of society, minor disturbances were observed, with workers of the three parties squaring off with the activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). While the MVA claimed that the shutdown had received an “overwhelming response”, it was business as usual in some urban and rural pockets. By and large, a combination of cooperation and coercion ensured that most establishments downed their shutters, with activists of the Yuva Sena, the NCP and the Congress fanning out across the State to enforce the shutdown. Buses operated by the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport undertaking stayed off the road after eight vehicles were damaged by unknown persons who pelted stones at them in the wee hours. State Transport buses plied in many districts and local train services ran as usual in Mumbai. Several taxis continued to ply despite the shutdown. Party workers clash Incidents of tyre burning and protests against the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh were observed throughout the State. In Kolhapur, some Shiv Sena activists were taken into custody for blocking the national highway for nearly half an hour in the morning. Tension ensued in Jalgaon district, where BJP activists briefly clashed with the workers of MVA allies. An autorickshaw driver was allegedly beaten by Sena workers in Thane, while members of the Yuva Sena burnt tyres in Malshiras in Solapur and raised slogans against Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The BJP and the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena questioned the MVA’s “double standards” in imposing the shutdown on farmers, traders and businessmen limping back to normalcy after successive lockdowns. Despite the economic loss endured during the prolonged lockdowns, the traders’ association in Mumbai and Pune extended their support to the shutdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-disturbances-mark-maharashtra-bandh/article36956282.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Veteran actor Nedumudi Venu passes away||Nedumudi Venu, one of Malayalam cinema’s most versatile character actors, passed away here on Monday afternoon. He was 73. He was admitted to a private hospital a few days back following liver-related ailments. In a career spanning more than four decades and over 500 films, Nedumudi Venu has portrayed a wide range of characters that brought forth his histrionic skills. After proving his mettle on the stage, being a member of Kavalam Narayana Panicker’s drama troupe, he made his film debut with G.Aravindan’s Thambu in 1978. He has been a part of some of the most popular films to have been made in the industry. Some of the films which he had recently completed, including Marakkar: Lion of the Arabian Sea , Aarattu, and Puzhu are yet to be released in the theatres. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, in his condolence message, said Nedumudi Venu was one of the finest actors in Malayalam and Indian cinema. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the actor found a place in the hearts of the people playing a variety of characters and through his folk songs. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Nedumudi Venu was a perfect actor who proved himself in acting as well as in percussion arts and in drama. Nedumudi Venu’s body will be kept for public viewing at the Ayyankali Hall in the capital from 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m on Tuesday. The cremation with State honours will be held at the Shantikavadom electric crematorium at Thycaud at 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veteran-actor-nedumudi-venu-passes-away/article36956456.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. to operate 16,500 buses for Deepavali||To help people celebrate Deepavali, which falls on November 4, the Tamil Nadu Transport Department will be operating a total of 16,540 buses, including 10,000 buses from Chennai and more than 6,500 special buses between other parts of the State. Addressing a press meet after discussing with transport officials the modalities of operating regular and special buses across the State, Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan said the buses would be operated from November 1 to 3. He said 6,300 regular buses and 3,506 special buses would be operated from Chennai. Also 6,734 special buses would be operated between the other parts of the State. The State Transport Department has segregated the bus routes originating from the city to various districts in the State and would operate regular and special buses from five bus termini including Madhavaram (bound for Uthukottai via Red Hills, Ponneri and Gumidipoondi), K.K. Nagar (Puducherry and Cuddalore via ECR), Tambaram MEPZ (Tindivanam, Vikravandi, Panruti, and Kumbakonam), Poonamallee (Kancheepuram, Vellore, Arani, Arcot, Thirupathur, and Dharmapuri), and Koyambedu (Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Salem, and Coimbatore). The Transport Department, to help people return to Chennai and other places after celebrating Deepavali in their home towns, has made arrangements for operating 17,719 buses from November 5 to 8. The Department has opened 12 booking counters in Koyambedu and Tambaram MEPZ. Commuters can call 9445014450, 9445014436.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-operate-over-16500-buses-for-deepavali/article36956244.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Industry seeks clarity on space policy||Industrialists told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday that for the space industry to grow, the government should help small and medium sector enterprises (SME) access more capital as well as move faster on finalising its space policy. The industry leaders were speaking at the inauguration of the Indian Space Association, an organisation meant to represent the interests of the space sector with government and private sector bodies across the board, including the Indian Space Research Organisation, Walchandnagar Industries, TATA Nelco, Pixxel, Mapmy India and Bharti Airtel. In his address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government was “the most decisive one in history” and that in sectors where the government “wasn’t needed” the private sector ought to be stepping in. He cited the example of the recent decision of the government giving up its stake in Air India to a Tata group company. The government’s approach to space reforms, Mr. Modi said, is based on four pillars. First is the freedom of innovation to the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industry-seeks-clarity-on-space-policy/article36956134.ece
12 October 2021||Vijayawada,||‘Affiliate govt. schools to CBSE by 2024’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday directed officials to secure CBSE affiliation for all government schools by the year 2024, implement Amma Vodi and Jagananna Vidya Kanuka schemes in letter and spirit and to acquire lands wherever required to allot playgrounds to schools. In a review meeting on education, Mr. Jagan said every school should have a playground and ordered that the officials should map schools not having the facility. He ordered the officials to link students’ attendance to the Amma Vodi scheme from 2022 and that the financial assistance under the scheme should be extended at the beginning of the academic year. He instructed officials to issue orders for procurement of items under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka by December and to ensure that kits were delivered to students before the reopening of schools every year. The Chief Minister also called for an action plan to make Rs. 1 lakh available to every school to facilitate maintenance works. The officials proposed to give rankings on the performance of schools through social audits. The Chief Minister directed them to speak to teachers in that regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/affiliate-govt-schools-to-cbse-by-2024/article36956135.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Justice Satish Sharma sworn in TS CJ||Justice Satish Chandra Sharma was sworn in as the new Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court, at the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office to Justice Sharma. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, his Cabinet colleagues, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other judges of the High Court were present at the swearing-in ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/justice-satish-chandra-sharma-sworn-in-as-the-new-telangana-hc-cj/article36956435.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,||Nearly 25 lakh skip 2nd dose of vaccine||Around 25 lakh people in the State who were due for second dose of COVID-19 vaccination have skipped it despite completing the prescribed time interval between two doses. Of them, 15 lakh took the first dose of Covishield and the remaining took Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-25-lakh-skip-2nd-dose-of-vaccine/article36956411.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Offline classes for I to V students from October 21||Offline classes for students in standards I to V will reopen on October 21, along with the midday meals, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh announced here on Monday. He had earlier said that the State Government would decide on starting classes after Dasara. Mr. Nagesh, after announcing the SSLC supplementary exam results, said that with the resumption of classes for I toV, schools would be completely opened. Apart from the Chief Minister, the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee had also been convinced about the move as offline classes were more impactful than online classes, he added. As for school fees, he said that a decision would be taken based on court orders, along with a decision on forming a fee regulatory committee, he said. The Minister also ruled out syllabus cut this year, adding that a bridge course for I PU students, who had a 30% syllabus cut in SSLC, would be framed. Mr. Nagesh ruled out any changes in the textbook review committee, saying that the panel report would be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offline-classes-for-i-to-v-students-from-october-21/article36956168.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand Minister, son join Congress||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son, Sanjeev Arya, joined the Congress on Monday. The Assembly election in the State is scheduled early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-minister-son-join-congress/article36956298.ece
12 October 2021||Stockholm,||Economics Nobel for research on wages, jobs||The Nobel prize for economics was awarded to economist David Card for research that showed an increase in minimum wage does not lead to less hiring. Two others shared the award for developing ways to study these types of societal issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/economics-nobel-for-research-on-wages-jobs/article36956299.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. starts spraying bio-decomposer in farms||The Delhi government on Monday started spraying bio-decomposer solution in farmlands to decompose the stubble left after harvest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-starts-spraying-bio-decomposer-in-farms/article36956303.ece
12 October 2021||Patna,||Power struggle between Lalu’s sons escalates||The bitter power struggle between the sons of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad escalated on Monday, with elder son Tej Pratap Yadav setting off on a padyatra (foot march) from the Gandhi Maidan to the residence of socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan to begin a LP (Lalu Prasad) movement on the lines of the JP movement in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-struggle-between-lalus-sons-escalates/article36956496.ece
12 October 2021||Bhopal,||Cases lodged for ‘hurting’ Hindu sentiments in M.P.||The Ujjain and Indore police in Madhya Pradesh have lodged cases against a woman and five persons respectively for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-lodged-for-hurting-hindu-sentiments-in-mp/article36956544.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand Minister, son join Congress||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son, Sanjeev Arya, joined the Congress on Monday. The Assembly election in the State is scheduled early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-minister-son-join-congress/article36956497.ece
12 October 2021||Patna,||Power struggle between Lalu’s sons escalates||The bitter power struggle between the sons of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad escalated on Monday, with elder son Tej Pratap Yadav setting off on a padyatra (foot march) from the Gandhi Maidan to the residence of socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan to begin a LP (Lalu Prasad) movement on the lines of the JP movement in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-struggle-between-lalus-sons-escalates/article36956283.ece
12 October 2021||Bhopal,||Cases lodged for ‘hurting’ Hindu sentiments in M.P.||The Ujjain and Indore police in Madhya Pradesh have lodged cases against a woman and five persons respectively for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments. Priests enraged over a video shot on the Mahakaleshwar temple premises demanded a ban on the entry of women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-lodged-for-hurting-hindu-sentiments-in-mp/article36956284.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand Minister, son join Congress||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son, Sanjeev Arya, joined the Congress on Monday. The Assembly election in the State is scheduled early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-minister-son-join-congress/article36956285.ece
12 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ashish sent to police custody for 3 days||Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, was on Monday sent to three days in police custody by a local court in connection with the charges against him over allegedly mowing down farmers last week during a protest at Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. Eight persons — four farmers, three BJP workers including a driver of a vehicle belonging to the Mishras and a local scribe — were killed in the incident, following which two first information reports (FIRs) were lodged. Mr. Ashish Mishra was sent to 14-day judicial custody after his arrest late on Saturday. The police then sought his custody for 14 days. However, Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram granted the prosecution only a three-day police custody, said prosecution lawyer S.P Yadav. Mr. Yadav said the police remand was granted on conditions that Mr. Ashish would not be harassed, his medical examination would be conducted, and his lawyer would be allowed to be present during his questioning. ‘Fair probe impossible’ Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra observed a silent fast at the Gandhi statue in Lucknow’s Hazratganj area demanding the dismissal of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra. Taking to social media, Ms. Vadra later asked how Mr. Ajay Mishra could stay on as Union Minister after the arrest of Mr. Ashish on charges of allegedly killing protesting farmers. “For a fair probe and justice, dismissal of Union Minister of Home Affairs is necessary,” Ms. Vadra tweeted. BJP under fire Amid growing criticism of the BJP over the incident, which took place in the agrarian belt of the Terai, the party’s State president Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday urged party workers to win the confidence of the people through their conduct. Without making a direct reference to Lakhimpur Kheri, Mr. Dev Singh said that being a political leader didn't mean that one could loot or “mow down people with a Fortuner”. Multiple charges Mr. Ashish was arrested after he did not co-operate during interrogation and was not willing to share certain things asked of him, police had said. He was named as the accused in the murder case lodged by farmers after cars belonging to his father's convoy ran over protesting farmers. The FIR was lodged under murder, criminal conspiracy, rash driving and death by negligence, among charges. On Saturday morning, Mr. Ashish went to the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur after the police issued him a second summons as he failed to turn up after the first one on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashish-sent-to-police-custody-for-3-days/article36956052.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. asks India to update climate goals||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, urging India to announce a “more ambitious” Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) ahead of a United Nations climate change summit in the U.K. in a few weeks. The two leaders also spoke about the issue of vaccine certifications and the Afghanistan situation. “Prime Minister conveyed India’s commitment to Climate Action, as seen in its ambitious target for expansion of renewable energy and the recently announced National Hydrogen Mission,” a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement said. As president of the coming climate change conference, the U.K. is asking all countries to update their NDCs to reflect climate targets for the next few decades. “Prime Minister [Johnson] underlined the importance of making concrete progress on climate change ahead of and at the upcoming COP26 Summit. He noted that India already lead(s) the world in renewable technology and expressed his hope that they will commit to a more ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution and to achieving Net Zero emissions,” said an official release from the U.K. government on the conversation. One hundred and ninety three countries filed their first NDCs, but only 19 have so far updated them. India filed its first NDC in 2016, committing at the time to cut emissions by 33% by 2030 (from 2005 levels) and to ensure that about 40% of its installed power capacity comes from renewable energy, targets that the government says it is on track to reach. However, the U.K. and the U.S. have been asking India to do more in terms of declaring its second NDC, which includes India’s promise of installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, and to declare firm deadlines for achieving “Net Zero” carbon emissions and ending the use of coal for generating electricity, so as to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Mr. Modi has been invited to the UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12, but has not confirmed his attendance yet. He had been due to attend the G-7 summit as a special invitee in the U.K. in June last, but had to cancel the visit due to the second wave of the pandemic. Mr. Johnson is also expected to reschedule his proposed visits to India in January and April this year, which had to be put off due to the pandemic as well. Foreign Secretary visit However, high-level visits by two Ministers, including the new British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss are expected shortly, and could coincide with India-U.K. naval exercises involving the U.K. Carrier Strike Group led by HMS Queen Elizabeth. Ms. Truss spoke to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar over the telephone last week about the vaccine issue as well as the U.K. India “Roadmap” for ties till 2030 and an enhanced trade partnership. According to the U.K. statement, Mr. Modi and Mr. Johnson discussed the importance of “cautiously opening up international travel”, and the issue of vaccine certification. Covishield recognition Last week, the U.K. agreed to recognise Indian-administered Covishield and waived the need for nationals from India and 36 other countries to undertake home quarantines as long as they are vaccinated. However, the U.K. does not yet recogniseCovaxin, which is awaiting clearances from the World Health Organization. “They agreed the U.K.’s recognition of Indian vaccine certification is a welcome development to that end,” the British statement said. The leaders also talked about Afghanistan, both sides said. “In this context, they agreed on the need to develop a common international perspective on issues regarding extremism and terrorism, as well as Human Rights and rights of women and minorities,” the MEA statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-asks-india-to-update-climate-goals/article36956073.ece
12 October 2021||Special Correspondent,||Over 2 lakh RTI pleas pending||A complaint filed under the Right to Information Act (RTI) in Odisha this summer would not be disposed of by the State’s Information Commission until 2028 at the current rate of operations. Twelve State Information Commissions plus the Central Information Commission would need at least a year to dispose of their appeals, and the nationwide backlog has crossed 2.55 lakh cases, according to an analysis by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS). Sixteen years after the RTI Act came into force on October 12, 2005, it is a tool for citizens to demand accountability in governance, with an estimated 40 lakh to 60 lakh RTI requests being filed every year. When a request for information is denied by a government body, however, appeals are filed in the Central and State Information Commissions, which act as transparency watchdogs under the law. The SNS report documented the performance of these commissions, highlighting the delays in disposing of cases due to both shortage of personnel and inefficient operations. A complaint filed in Odisha on July 1, 2021 would take six years and eight months to be disposed of, the longest among States. The Central Information Commission itself would take a year and 11 months to dispose an appeal, although it has reduced its backlog to 33,742 since filling four of its vacancies almost a year ago. However, the CIC still has three vacancies left and has not functioned at its full strength of 10 Commissioners and one chief for almost five years. “An assessment of the functioning of the transparency watchdogs revealed that 21 out of 29 commissions in the country did not hold a single hearing during the first three stages of the national lockdown imposed in 2020,” said the SNS report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-2-lakh-rti-pleas-pending/article36956081.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid row, BJP gets into huddle over U.P. election||The BJP on Monday got into a huddle over the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections under the shadow of the events of Lakhimpur Kheri that left eight people dead and a cloud of controversy over local BJP strongman and Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. Senior leaders present at the meeting called by party president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi included general secretary organisation B.L. Santhosh, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and State general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. Senior sources in the BJP insisted that the meeting was more about charting out the organisational programmes in the run-up to the Assembly elections rather than whether Mr. Mishra needs to step down after his son’s arrest in the Lakhimpur Kheri deaths case. Outreach programme “In the next 100 days, we will be charting out 100 programmes for outreach, and that is what the meeting is about. The planning of these programmes, including community outreach, meetings with panna pramukhs (those entrusted with reaching out to individual voters), and also getting in touch with labharthis (beneficiaries of welfare programmes of the government),” said a senior office-bearer of the BJP in Delhi. As for whether or not Mr. Mishra will continue in his position in the Union Cabinet even after his son has been accused of running over farmers with his vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri, sources said that call was for the government to take. “Currently, Ajay Mishra has been very firm in his insistence that his son was not present at the spot where people were mowed down by cars belonging to supporters of the Minister. The Uttar Pradesh police has, however, mentioned him in FIRs and arrested him. That is where the situation stands. We are awaiting firm evidence,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-row-bjp-gets-into-huddle-over-up-election/article36956054.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No data on private vaccine procurement: govt.||The Union Health Ministry said it did not know how many COVID-19 vaccines were procured by private players, nor did it have separate data on how many vaccine doses were administered by private hospitals and service providers, according to its response to a Right to Information (RTI) request filed by Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd). Despite the fact that the government had reserved 25% of vaccine allocation for the private sector, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan recently said only 6% of the doses administered since May were in private hospitals. To date, India has administered 65.8 crore doses. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had earlier targeted industry groups for not doing enough on the vaccine drive. The Centre had capped inoculation charges by private players at Rs. 250. Commodore Batra’s query, dated August 11, asked how many doses were directly purchased by private players and how many they administered. Information denied On August 31, the Health Ministry responded, denying the information requested. “Private hospitals/institutions etc procure vaccines directly from the vaccine manufacturers. Data asked pertains between manufacturers and private hospitals/institutions, etc.,” it said. After an appeal, the Ministry reiterated its stance on September 23, insisting that “this information was not maintained and was not available” as private procurement was done directly. In his appeal, Commodore Batra had cited a June affidavit filed in the Supreme Court where the Centre had said it would “facilitate supply of vaccines to private hospitals [under the 25% quota] and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform” to ensure “equitable access and regional balance”. With regard to doses administered, the Ministry initially said, “Separate vaccination data is not available,” pointing to the COWIN dashboard for overall data. On September 23, it said, “Data of COVID-19 vaccination doses administered by [private players] may be obtained from the States/UTs where such private COVID vaccination centres are located.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-data-on-private-vaccine-procurement-govt/article36956083.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi to attend G20 virtual meeting on Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend an extraordinary virtual meeting of G20 leaders on Afghanistan to be held on October 12. Mr. Modi had urged the international community to carefully act on the recognition of the Taliban as the legitimate rulers of Afghanistan and the G20 meeting is likely to deliberate on both political as well as humanitarian issues regarding the country. Ahead of the meeting, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Minister of State Meenakshi Lekhi reminded the world about the multilateral norms that have been set in place regarding the Afghan crisis. The G20 meeting comes soon after the United States held a round of discussion on assisting the Taliban deal with the unfolding humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan as winter is deepening amidst shortage of essential commodities and a collapse of the banking system. Jaishankar in Bishkek India explained the current position on Afghanistan on Monday, with Mr. Jaishankar meeting his Kyrgyz counterpart Ruslan Kazakbaev in Bishkek. At the end of his visit in Bishkek, Mr. Jaishankar said, “We are closely following the developments in Afghanistan. It concerns all of us. There are expectations of the international community from the current regime in Afghanistan which are adequately elaborated in the UNSC Resolution 2593.” Ms. Lekhi also highlighted UNSC Resolution 2593 while speaking at a meeting held on Monday in Belgrade to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). “Following recent developments in Afghanistan, it is absolutely imperative that the approach of the international community is guided by the U.N. Security Council Resolution 2593,” she stated, emphasising that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to export terror against other countries. The G20 extraordinary meeting comes as Afghan hospitals run out of basic medicines and that country witnesses increased suffering in the rural sector because of the disruption of the agriculture supply chain. Italy holds talks Italy, the current chair of G20, has discussed the situation in Kabul and other cities of Afghanistan with world powers like Russia and China. Prime Minister Mario Draghi observed in September last week that the immediate aim of the world community was to ensure that human lives were saved in that country. Italy believes that the Taliban’s denial of women’s rights makes it difficult for the world to recognise it as a legitimate political entity but maintains that people should receive financial support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-attend-g20-virtual-meeting-on-afghanistan/article36956071.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Controversial Pak. Senate head gets Speaker’s invite||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has invited the Chairman of Pakistan’s Senate, Muhammad Sadiq Sanjrani, to attend the centennial celebration of the creation of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of Parliament. The invite has not been confirmed by the Ministry of External Affairs yet but other informed sources told The Hindu that the August 24 letter sent to the Pakistan Senate Chairman was a routine gesture as Pakistan is part of the Commonwealth and other members of the grouping are also likely to be part of the celebration. The letter was first reported by Pakistani social media handles working with BOL TV. The PAC is the oldest parliamentary committee in the Indian legislative affairs and has been crucial in upholding the principle of accountability as it exercises oversight of public expenditure. India and Pakistan were engaged through backchannel talks between December 2020 and April 2021. The talks subsequently were overshadowed by the developments in Afghanistan where Pakistan-backed Taliban fighters dislodged the Ashraf Ghani government. The latest move also appears to be an attempt to engage the Pakistani establishment as Mr. Sanjrani is believed to represent the interest of the military elite of Pakistan. His visit is likely during December 4-5 when the events are scheduled to be held in Delhi but his presence and interactions will be of interest especially because of the spillover effect of Afghanistan visible in the spike in violence in Kashmir. Mr. Sanjrani, a leader from the restive province of Balochistan, himself had in the past championed the cause of Kashmir saying at one point that he would write to all the parliamentarians of the world to highlight the alleged rights violations by Indian forces in Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/controversial-pak-senate-head-gets-speakers-invite/article36956050.ece
12 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Adani Group tightens cargo movement||The Gujarat-based Adani Group, which operates ports across the country, announced on Monday that it will not handle Exim containerised cargo originating from Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan from November 15. The move assumes significance as it comes in the backdrop of the seizure of nearly 3,000 kg of heroin by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at the company-operated Mundra port on the Gujarat coast on September 16 in containerised cargo imported as talc from Afghanistan via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port. On Monday, Adani Port and Logistics that operates the Mundra Port Special Economic Zone issued a trade advisory to its customers announcing that “with effect from November 15, 2021, APSEZ will not handle Exim containerised cargo originating from Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan”. “This trade advisory will apply to all terminals operated by APSEZ and including third party terminals at any APSEZ port till further notice.” Heroin seizure On September 16, in a special operation, the DRI seized 2,990 kg of heroin, worth nearly Rs. 21,000 crore, from two containers, which were declared as containing “semi-processed talc stones”, originating from Afghanistan, and were loaded onto the containers at Iran’s Bandar Abbas port before landing at Mundra Port in Kutch. The DRI arrested several persons, including a couple who had apparently imported the cargo mis-declaring it as “semi-processed talc stones”.  One Aashi Trading Company was identified as the importer firm and is alleged to be run by M. Sudhakar and wife G. Durga Purna Vaishali. They were arrested from Chennai and brought to Kutch where a local court granted 10 days’ custody of the two to the DRI. Recently, the Centre handed over the case to the National Investigation Agency. Following the seizure, the Adani Group had condemned attempts to drag its name into the case. “The law empowers the Government of India’s competent authorities such as the Customs and the DRI to open, examine and seize unlawful cargo. No port operator across the country can examine a container. Their role is limited to running the port,” the group had said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adani-group-tightens-cargo-movement/article36956066.ece
12 October 2021||Patna,||Power struggle between Lalu Prasad’s sons escalates||The bitter power struggle between the sons of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad and former Bihar Chief Minister Rabri Devi escalated on Monday, with elder son Tej Pratap Yadav setting on a padyatra (foot march) from the Gandhi Maidan here to the residence of socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan to begin a LP (Lalu Prasad) movement on the lines of the JP movement in the State. Mr. Tej Pratap had invited his younger brother, Tejashwi Yadav, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, and Mr. Prasad to join the movement. But there has been no response from them so far. On Sunday, Ms. Devi dashed to Patna and drove straight to Mr. Tej Pratap’s residence to meet him and bridge the widening rift between the siblings. However, minutes before her arrival, he left the house. On Monday, when Mr. Tej Pratap, RJD MLA from Hasanpur, took out the Janshakti Yatra, named after a students organisation he formed recently, he moved past his mother’s residence but didn’t stop to meet her. He garlanded the statute of Jayaprakash Narayan and marched barefoot to his residence in the Kadamkuan locality of Patna. However, he told mediapersons later that he would meet his mother soon to seek her blessings. Unsavoury remarks Recently, senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari said Mr. Tej Pratap had been asked to stay away from party affairs. He had attacked State party chief Jagdanand Singh with unsavoury remarks on several occasions. This apparently had enraged his father. Mr. Tej Parap recently went to Delhi to meet his father, who is recuperating at his elder daughter and party’s Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti’s residence, but party sources told The Hindu that he returned empty-handed from there. Later, he said his father had been taken “hostage” in Delhi and was not being allowed to come to Patna. But Mr. Tejashwi responded, “Can a person like Lalu Prasad be taken hostage by anyone?” He added, “He [Mr. Prasad] would come to Patna soon.”  Party leaders said Mr. Prasad may visit Patna in third week of October to seek support for party candidates for the byelections to the Kusheshwarsthan (Darbhanga) and Tarapur (Munger) seats.  “Both the brothers are engaged in power struggle within the party and family as well but Mr. Tejashwi seems to have got the blessings of his parents and mass support in the party” said political observer Ajay Kumar. A senior RJD leader said, “The party has accepted Mr. Tejashwi as leader, and barring few countable leaders, no one likes to support Mr. Tej Pratap in the party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-struggle-between-lalu-prasads-sons-escalates/article36956070.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Killing of minorities a threat to democratic fabric of India: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the Jammu and Kashmir Government and the police over the recent spate of targeted killings of civilians from minority communities. The NHRC issued notices to the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police (DGP) of the Union Territory on October 9 after taking suo motu cognisance of media reports the previous day. The officials were asked to respond within four weeks, according to the proceedings. The painful incidents of killing of civilians allegedly by the terrorists are a serious threat to the democratic fabric of the country and people’s right to life, liberty, equality and dignity, it observed. “Targeted killings of those who are not Kashmiri Muslims is an attempt to keep non-Muslims out of the Valley. It is a gross violation of human rights of minority communities in the Valley,” it added. The commission referred to news reports about the killing of two government school teachers, Supinder Kaur, a Sikh, and Deepak Chand, a Hindu, in Srinagar on October 7. This was after well-known pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, from the Kashmiri Pandit community, was gunned down on October 5 in Srinagar. On the same day, Virender Paswan, a street food vendor from Bihar, was killed. “The commission takes suo motu cognisance of the incident and directs issuance of notices to the Chief Secretary, Jammu & Kashmir, and the DGP, Jammu & Kashmir, calling for a detailed report in the matter, including present status of the investigation being conducted and steps be taken or proposed to be taken by the authorities to safeguard innocent citizens’ lives from being killed in a targeted manner,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/killing-of-minorities-a-threat-to-democratic-fabric-of-india-nhrc/article36956076.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT need not ‘wait for Godot’ to save environment, says SC||The Supreme Court has declared the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) position as a “unique” forum endowed with suo motu powers to take up environmental issues across the country. The court said the NGT need not wait for the “metaphorical Godot” to knock on its portal to flex its considerable muscles to save the environment. “The exercise of power by the NGT is not circumscribed by the receipt of applications. When substantial questions relating to the environment arise and the issue is civil in nature and those relate to the Act, the NGT, in our opinion, even in the absence of an application, can self-ignite action either towards amelioration or towards prevention of harm,” a three-judge Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and C.T. Ravikumar held in a judgment. Justice Roy, who authored the 77-page judgment for the Bench, dismissed objections from the Centre, legal experts and even the court’s own amicus curiae who all argued against the NGT clothed with suo motu powers. The court, speaking through Justice Roy, explained that the role of the NGT was not simply adjudicatory in nature. The Tribunal has to perform equally vital roles that were preventative, ameliorative or remedial in nature. The judgment described the NGT “as a complimentary, competent, specialised forum to deal with all environmental multidisciplinary issues both as original and also as an appellate authority, which complex issues were hitherto dealt with by the High Courts and the Supreme Court”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-need-not-wait-for-godot-to-save-environment-says-sc/article36956089.ece
12 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Contract staff in Odisha bought 60 plots in five years of service||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials in Odisha have come across a contract employee who purchased 60 plots in the first five years of his service period. The accused, Bikash Kumar Behera, was working as the Gram Panchayat Technical Assistant (GPTA) in the rank of a junior engineer. “The GPTA has not earned more than Rs. 10 lakh in his total service period, but we have detected movable and immovable properties worth over Rs. 1.02 crore from his possession,” said Birendra Nayak, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Vigilance), Rourkela. Mr. Nayak said as a GPTA, his job responsibilities included technical supervision of various development works such as construction of check dams and implantation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. “In the next six months, his job would have been regularised. He would have started a career as full-time GPTA,” said Mr. Nayak. Three teams of the Vigilance Department conducted simultaneous searches in three places in Deogarh district on Monday. They found that he owned a double-storey building at Balam in Deogarh district and 60 plots — 59 of them in Deogarh and one in Sambalpur town — worth Rs. 50.68 lakh. “We found the sale deeds of the plots kept in one place. The 59 plots are situated on the outskirts of Deogarh district headquarter town and mostly in village areas,” said Mr. Nayak. Vigilance sources said none of the plots was inherited by the contract employee. A four-wheeler, bank deposits of around Rs. 6.61 lakh, insurance deposits over Rs. 21.15 lakh, gold ornaments weighing 386 grams and Rs. 2.99 lakh in cash were recovered from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/contract-staff-in-odisha-bought-60-plots-in-5-years-of-service/article36956075.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand Minister, son join Congress||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son, Sanjeev Arya, joined the Congress on Monday. The Assembly polls in the State is scheduled early next year. This is aghar wapsi(h omecoming) of sorts for Mr. Yashpal Arya. He had been the Uttarakhand Pradesh Congress Committee president for seven years before joining the BJP in 2017. Prominent Dalit leader A prominent Dalit face in the State, he is a six-time MLA. His son represents Nainital. Speaking at their induction, Congress general secretary (Communications) Randeep Surjewala, said Mr. Yashpal Arya forwarded his resignation to the Governor on Monday morning. Mr. Yashpal stated that he felt relieved to be back in his home — the Congress. “The Congress has a history of sacrifice, a legacy that we are proud to carry forward. Democracy in the country can be strengthened only if the Congress is strengthened.” Senior Congress leader K.C. Venugopal said the father-son duo’s return in a way showed which way the wind was blowing in the State. Senior party leader Harish Rawat claimed that more BJP leaders were likely to join the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-minister-son-join-congress/article36956062.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Nobel for research on wages, jobs||The Nobel prize for economics was awarded on Monday to U.S.-based economist David Card for pioneering research that showed an increase in minimum wage does not lead to less hiring and that immigrants do not lower pay for native-born workers, challenging commonly held ideas. The prize was shared with two others for creating a way to study these types of societal issues. Canadian-born Dr. Card of the University of California, Berkeley, was awarded one half of the prize for his research on how minimum wage, immigration and education affect the labour market, while the other half was shared by Joshua Angrist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Dutch-born Guido Imbens from Stanford University for their framework for studying issues that can't rely on traditional scientific methods.  The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said the three have “completely reshaped empirical work in the economic sciences.” Together, the three helped rapidly expand the use of “natural experiments”, or studies based on the observation of real-world data. Such research made economics more applicable to everyday life, provided policymakers with actual evidence on the outcomes of policies, and in time spawned a more popular approach to economics epitomised by the bestseller Freakonomics by Stephen Dubner and Steven Levitt. In a study published in 1993, Dr. Card looked at what happened to jobs at fast-food restaurants Burger King, KFC, Wendy’s and Roy Rogers when N.J. raised its minimum wage from $4.25 to $5.05, using restaurants in bordering eastern Pennsylvania as the control — or comparison — group. Contrary to previous studies, he and his research partner Alan Krueger, who died in 2019, found that an increase in the minimum wage had no effect on the number of employees. Dr. Card’s minimum wage research fundamentally altered economists’ views of such policies. As noted by the Economist magazine, in 1992 a survey of the American Economic Association’s members found that 79% agreed that a minimum wage law increased unemployment among younger and lower-skilled workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nobel-for-research-on-wages-jobs/article36956056.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Industry urges more clarity on space policy||The government’s approach to space reforms, Mr. Modi said, is based on four pillars. First is the freedom of innovation to the private sector. Second, the role of the government as an enabler. Third, preparing youth for the future. And fourth, to see the space sector as a resource for the progress of the common man. This translated to better mapping, imaging and connectivity facilities for the common people. Also, the space sector implied better speed from shipment to delivery for entrepreneurs, this also means better security and income for fishermen and better forecast of the natural calamity, he added. Chirag Doshi, Managing Director and CEO, Walchandnagar Industries, said deeper engagement with academia, industry and government for research and development in space sector was needed and that “opportunity” for SMEs to work closer with Finance Ministry to get better financing was the need of the hour. P.J. Nath, MD& CEO, of NELCO, a Tata group company, said the Centre should move to quickly finalise the new space policy as it would help with planning for investments. “Some policies don't help fully realise potential, for example, the maritime policy doesn't allow (private sector) to supply services to fisheries,” Mr Nath said. He also requested flexibility for satellite frequency users to use any frequency range and to be able to freely buy technology from abroad. Rohan Verma, CEO, MapmyIndia urged the Prime Minister to help install his company's mapping software in every phone as it would mean the promotion of an “indigenous innovation”. Ahead of major launches next year, India has announced its intent to liberalise the space sector and have more private companies use the facilities of the ISRO for developing as well as launching satellites. While there have been drafts of a new space policy, these are yet to take shape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industry-urges-more-clarity-on-space-policy/article36956055.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Air India sale is Centre’s free gift to Tatas: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday termed the sale of Air India to the Tatas a free gift from the government to the group who, according to reports, is the largest donor of funds to the BJP. Addressing a press conference at the end of a two-day Polit Bureau meeting at the party headquarters in Delhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the sale was part of the government’s relentless looting of the country’s national assets. “This sale is tantamount to giving a free gift to the Tatas by the Modi government. The Tatas will inherit Rs. 15,300 crore of debt, which will surely be restructured, paying the Centre a mere Rs. 2,700 crore for the national carrier, with all its core assets. Rs. 46,262 crore of the remaining debt will be the burden of the government, which means that the people will bear the burden of clearing this debt,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-india-sale-is-govts-free-gift-to-tatas-cpim/article36956059.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. buying fuel from accused Sandesaras’||The Congress on Monday accused the government of not only facilitating a safe exit for economic offenders but also carrying on with business with them. It pointed to continued import of crude oil from Sterling Oil Exploration and Energy Production Company Ltd. (SEEPCO), which is a Sterling Biotech group entity. In September 2020, a special court declared Sterling Biotech group promoters Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara as economic offenders for reportedly siphoning off bank loans worth Rs. 15,000 crore. At a press conference at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Gourav Ballabh said while Indians were reeling under exponential increase in prices of fuel, the fugitives were prospering Producing an RTI reply, Mr. Ballabh alleged that instead of making efforts to bring them to law, the government was purchasing crude oil from them. “Instead of seizing their assets, the Petroleum Ministry shamelessly is indulging in business with the Sandesaras. From January 1, 2018 to May 31, 2020, shipments worth Rs. 5701.83 crore of crude oil were received from SEEPCO Nigeria by Indian oil PSUs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-buying-fuel-from-accused-sandesaras/article36956060.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China talks end in impasse||“It was therefore necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector,” the statement said. This would also be in accord with the guidance provided by the two Foreign Ministers in their recent meeting in Dushanbe where they agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest, the statement said. Such resolution of the remaining areas would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations, it asserted. “It is our expectation that the Chinese side will take into account the overall perspective of bilateral relations and will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols,” it noted. PLA statement The Chinese military’s statement on Sunday night came not from the Defence Ministry, as was the case in some of the earlier rounds, but from the PLA’s Western Theatre Command in Chengdu, which has in recent rounds appeared to have taken over the responsibility for putting out statements on the LAC situation. This is seen by some observers as Beijing placing less importance on the slow moving negotiations. Since the stand-off began in May last year, both sides have held a series of talks at different levels- political, diplomatic and military, and as part of agreements reached, have undertaken disengagement from both sides of Pangong Tso in February and the Patrolling Point 17 at Gogra area in August. The other friction areas that remain are Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang. Officials remarked that while an agreement for resolving Hot Springs was within reach, Demchok and Depsang were legacy issues and tough to resolve. In addition to the overall disengagement and de-escalation, the two sides had also agreed to work out new protocols for patrolling to ensure such instances do not occur again. The PLA statement did not suggest any agreement reached on either disengaging or on new protocols. Senior Colonel Long Shaohua, spokesperson for the Western Theatre Command, stated, “China had made great efforts to promote the easing and cooling of the border situation and fully demonstrated its sincerity in order to maintain the overall situation of the relations between the two militaries. However, India still insisted on the unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which made the negotiations more difficult,” he said. “China’s resolve to safeguard national sovereignty is firm”. ” He called on India “to not misjudge the situation” and to “cherish the hard-won situation in the China-India border areas and abide by relevant agreements and consensus between the two countries and the two militaries.” The PLA’s comment on India making “unrealistic demands” stands in stark contrast to New Delhi’s view on the LAC crisis, which began in April 2020 when the PLA massed thousands of troops along the LAC, carried out multiple transgressions in eastern Ladakh, and disregarded the many previously agreed upon border agreements aimed at keeping the peace. While negotiations have led to disengagement in some of the areas, thousands of PLA troops remain in forward areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-talks-end-in-impasse/article36956063.ece
12 October 2021||Mumbai,||Another series of raids on Deshmukh’s houses||In yet another series of raids against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) searched his houses in Nagpur and Mumbai in connection with the leak of the preliminary inquiry report against him. The report had allegedly given a clean chit to the former Minister, which was later overruled by the top officials of the agency. The CBI has already arrested Mr. Deshmukh’s lawyer, Anand Daga, and CBI inspector Abhishek Tiwari for leaking the report and influencing the case. Earlier in the day, it was rumoured that Mr. Deshmukh’s son Salil and daughter-in-law Riddhi would be arrested as the CBI team had come with an arrest warrant. CBI sources, however, did not confirm it. Both the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have raided Mr. Deshmukh’s residential and commercial establishments several times in the past few months. The NCP came down on the agency over the repeated raids. “This is nothing but the pure harassment of an individual,” said NCP’s State president Jayant Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-series-of-raids-on-deshmukhs-houses/article36956074.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||In another reshuffle, 7 HC judges transferred||Seven judges were on Monday transferred to different High Courts. This is the second set of transfers of High Court judges effected in the last one week. Fifteen judges of 11 High Courts were transferred on October 5. The transfers were recommended by the Supreme Court Collegium last month. The Department of Justice in the Law Ministry tweeted a list of judges transferred. Justice Rajan Gupta of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has been sent to the Patna High Court. Justice T.S. Sivagnanam has been sent from the Madras High Court to the Calcutta High Court. Similarly, Justice Sureshwar Thakur of the Himachal Pradesh High Court has been sent to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Justice P.B. Bajanthri of the Karnataka High Court stands transferred to the Patna High Court. Rajasthan High Court’s Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma has been sent to the Patna High Court. Justice T. Amarnath Goud of the Telangana High Court has been sent to the Tripura High Court. Justice Subhash Chand of the Allahabad High Court has been transferred to the Jharkhand High Court. In the latest transfer process, the Patna High Court got three new judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-another-reshuffle-7-hc-judges-transferred/article36956084.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants relief to Rujira Banerjee in coal scam case||The Delhi High Court on Monday exempted Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee from personal appearance before a trial court in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Justice Yogesh Khanna granted Ms. Banerjee’s exemption from personal appearance for the time being after Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, representing the Enforcement Directorate (ED), urged the court to take up her plea for hearing after the Dasara break. “Till then, the lady client [Rujira] may not appear in person,” the Solicitor-General said. The trial court in Delhi had directed her to appear before it personally on October 12. The High Court would now hear the plea on October 29.On September 30, the trial court had directed her physical presence on October 12 after she appeared virtually in relation to the complaint filed by the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-grants-relief-to-rujira-banerjee-in-coal-scam-case/article36956068.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Storehouse of knowledge||Sastras are the storehouse of right knowledge and hence are rightly the basis for enquiry into Brahman. But the sastras themselves state that Brahman is not to be known by human word or thought. ‘Yatha vacho nivartanthe aprapya manasa saha’ is the famous statement in this regard. Still, the third sutra in the Brahmasutra ‘Sastra Yonitvat’ affirms that Sastra is the source of knowledge of Brahman through which we understand the nature of Brahman, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. This sutra is interpreted in two ways by interpreters such as Adi Sankara. The first interpretation is that Brahman is the cause of the revelation of the Vedas. The Vedas are not a written text. It is held that they are apaurusheya, independent of human origin and that they are revealed as the very breath of the Supreme Brahman. The Supreme Brahman is omniscient and His knowledge extends to all things. The second interpretation means that only the Vedas can prove to us that Brahman is the cause of the production, etc of the world. In other words, apart from the Vedas there is no other proof that Brahman is the cause of creation, sustenance and dissolution of the universe. The term Veda is synonymous with wisdom and the Vedic sages exemplify the genuine spirit of enquiry. So the scriptures urge the people to take up Brahma vichara as this is the ultimate aim for any jiva. The Brihadaranyaka Upanishad has this passage, “Verily it is the Self that should be seen, reflected on and meditated upon.” Vyasa captures the essence of this spirit of enquiry in the first Sutra in the Brahmasutra, ‘Athato Brahma Jignyasa.” Jignyasa is the desire to know to enquire into, to examine, test, and when this effort is directed towards Brahman it is Brahma jignyasa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/storehouse-of-knowledge/article36956078.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmer union to intensify agitation||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)’s deadline for its demands that Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra be sacked and arrested for his alleged involvement in the deaths of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri ran out on Monday. As hundreds of farmers pour into the region for the last rites of the victims on Tuesday, the protesting unions plan to go ahead with an intensified agitation in Lucknow later this month. The SKM accused the Minister of seeking to promote enmity and hatred against minority Sikhs of the Terai region in a speech on September 25. “ On the basis of this, stern action should have been taken by now, which could have prevented the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre,” the SKM said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-union-to-intensify-agitation/article36956053.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 NC leaders from Jammu join BJP||Devendra Singh Rana and Surjit Singh Salathia joined the BJP on Monday, a day after quitting the National Conference (NC). After joining the BJP at its headquarters here, Mr. Rana told journalists that the BJP would take the aspirations of the people of Jammu, who felt “relegated and a sense of deprivation”, forward in national interest. He would work to “strengthen the secular ethos of Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Mr. Rana, a three-time legislator, had been the head of the NC’s Jammu unit. Mr. Salathia was a two-time legislator and former Jammu and Kashmir Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-nc-leaders-from-jammu-join-bjp/article36956057.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai stopped||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-stopped/article36956065.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi/ Berne,||Swiss share third set of bank details||India has received the third set of Swiss bank account details as part of an annual exercise under which the European nation has shared particulars of nearly 33 lakh financial accounts with 96 countries. While the Federal Tax Administration of Switzerland did not disclose names and details of all 96 countries, officials said India figured among those having received the information for the third year in a row. The details shared with Indian authorities pertained to a large number of individuals and companies having accounts in Swiss financial institutions. The exchange took place last month. The next set of data would be shared in September 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swiss-share-third-set-of-bank-details/article36956067.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||White blanket||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/white-blanket/article36956287.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books case against IT infra firm MD, director in bank scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Trimax IT Infrastructure & Services Limited and others for allegedly cheating a consortium of seven banks headed by the State Bank of India (SBI) of Rs. 862.06 crore between 2009 and 2017. Among those named as accused in the First Information Report (FIR) were the company’s managing director, Surya Prakash Madrecha, and its director, Chandra Prakash Madrecha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-case-against-it-infra-firm-md-director-in-bank-scam/article36956077.ece
12 October 2021||Mumbai,||All 8 accused held for gang-rape of woman on Mumbai-bound train||The Government Railway Police have arrested all the eight accused involved in the rape of a 20-year-old woman on board the Lucknow- Mumbai Pushpak Express between Igatpuri and Kasara railway stations in Maharashtra, an official said on Monday. The incident took place on Friday night when the accused boarded the Mumbai-bound train at Igatpuri, and allegedly committed the crime while the train was passing through the ghat section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-8-accused-held-for-gang-rape-of-woman-on-mumbai-bound-train/article36956079.ece
12 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan bail plea hearing on Wednesday||The special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Monday said it would hear the bail application of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan on October 13 in the drugs case. Mr. Aryan Khan, 23, was sent to the Arthur Road Jail on October 8 after additional metropolitan magistrate R.M. Nilekar rejected his bail application, stating that the court did not have the jurisdiction to hear the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-bail-plea-hearing-on-wednesday/article36956091.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Did not intend to single out women: Minister||A day after drawing criticism for his remarks that many modern Indian women wanted to stay single and were not willing to bear children even after marriage, Health Minister K. Sudhakar has clarified that he did not mean to single out women. He claimed that he was only stressing the positive role played by family in handling mental stress. The Minister, who had made the remarks at the World Mental Health Day programme organised by NIMHANS in the city on Sunday, has now claimed that through his address he intended to send across the message on how the Indian family value system can address mental health issues. “It is unfortunate that a small part of my nineteen-and-a-half-minute speech has been taken out of context, thereby ignoring the larger point I was trying to make,” he said in a statement on Monday. The Minister asserted that it was widely established through research and studies that in a situation where mental health resource is a scarcity, families form a valuable support system. “Indian society is collectivistic and promotes social cohesion and interdependence. The traditional Indian joint family, which follows the same principles of collectivism, has proved itself to be an excellent resource for the care of the mentally ill,” he said. Quoting a paper in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry , Dr. Sudhakar said, “Indian and Asian families are, therefore, far more involved in caring for their members. Indian families are more intimate with the patient and are capable of taking greater therapeutic participation than [those] in the West.” “My statement about the younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is also based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey show that among millennials, 19% are not interested in either children or marriage. Another 8% want children but are not interested in marriage. Among post-millennials (or Gen Z adults), 23% are not interested in either children or marriage. As in the case of millennials, 8% want children but are not interested in marriage. There are very little gender-wise differences in these trends. It is applicable to both boys and girls,” he said. Congress reaction Earlier in the day, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar ridiculed the minister for his comments by tweeting, “They make big promises about women’s empowerment, while this is what the actual mindset is. Regressive, bashing women for their choices. All masks eventually come off.” Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar too criticised the Minister by saying, “These men need counselling on World Mental Health Day. Let her [the woman] live with her choices. No one can decide for her but herself...” Pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi too was single, she wondered why the BJP Minister was not commenting about it. “Any comments on their leader Narendra Modi? Paradigm shift of living single even after getting married,” she remarked in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/did-not-intend-to-single-out-women-minister/article36956098.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Be proactive to stop pollution of Perungudi Lake, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal said administrators have to be proactive in taking steps to prevent pollution of Perungudi Lake, and measures to fix the damage already caused to the waterbody cannot be done at their “whims and fancies”. The case relates to illegal discharge of sewage into the lake. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) had recently collected water samples from the lake for analysis and informed the NGT that the parameters for total coliform and faecal coliform met the primary water quality criteria for bathing water prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), but the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) was over the prescribed limits. The bench said the TNPCB had not mentioned the reason for the excess BOD in the water. The board’s counsel submitted that it could be due to discharge of sewage. “If that was the case, the observations made by the TNPCB that the total coliform is in conformity with the provided standard will have to be revisited,” the bench said. The Public Works Department filed a separate report, informing the NGT that there were plans for rehabilitation of all tanks in the Kovalam basin under the Comprehensive Flood Mitigation Project. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 2,000 crore and involves creating biodiversity parks or planting trees around the banks of the waterbody and protecting the lake against future encroachments. The PWD added that a detailed project report had been sent to the government, and after getting the World Bank’s approval, it would be executed. ‘Report not solution’ The bench, taking note of the submission, said the report submitted by the PWD was not a solution to the problem and that they were only pitching a dream project to rejuvenate all waterbodies in the State. “We do not know when the scheme will be approved, when the funding will be provided or when they will execute the work and complete it,” the bench said. The bench directed the Additional Chief Secretaries for the PWD and Municipal Administration and Water Supply to look into the issue and take appropriate decisions on policy matters quickly. It asked them to submit an action plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-proactive-to-stop-pollution-of-perungudi-lake-says-ngt/article36956243.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death in Chennai for the third day||On Monday, for the third day in a row, Chennai recorded no death due to COVID-19. Apart from Chennai, 27 districts reported no fatality, even as 13 more people succumbed to the infection across the State, taking the toll to 35,796. Fresh infections continued to fall, with 1,303 people testing positive. Of these, Chennai recorded 168 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 128. There were 98 cases in Chengalpattu, while Tiruppur recorded 87. In Erode, 75 people tested positive, while Thanajvur recorded 60 cases and Tiruvallur 58. Namakkal and Salem logged 57 and 52 cases respectively. Seven districts saw fewer than 10 cases each. Perambalur had the least number of cases at just two. The fresh cases pushed the State’s COVID-19 case tally to 26,79,568. Of the 13 fatalities, Coimbatore accounted for four. There was one death each in Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Salem, Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. All 13 of the deceased had co-morbidities. Another 1,428 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,27,780. The active caseload fell below 16,000 — at present, 15,992 people are under treatment. They include 1,856 people in Chennai, 1,605 in Coimbatore and 1,139 in Chengalpattu. According to data from Sunday, the State’s positivity rate stood at 0.9%. Tiruppur accounts for the highest positivity rate at 2%. As many as 1,39,836 samples were tested for COVID-19, taking the total count to 4,86,03,749.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-in-chennai-for-the-third-day/article36956213.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keep local bodies poll process in abeyance: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Puducherry government and the State Election Commission to keep in abeyance, all further proceedings related to the local bodies polls, proposed to be held in the Union Territory without reserving wards for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribe candidates. Justices R. Mahadevan and Abdul Quddhose passed the interim order following an urgent public interest litigation petition moved by R. Siva, leader of the Opposition in the Puducherry Assembly. The judges held a special sitting, during the week-long Dasara holidays, at the instance of senior counsel P. Wilson. The petitioner, belonging to the DMK, challenged a Government Order issued on October 6 rescinding the previous notifications which provided 33.5% reservation for BCs and 0.5% for STs in the local body polls. ‘Unconstitutional’ He contended that the withdrawal of reservation was unconstitutional and in violation of statutes governing the conduct of local bodies elections in Puducherry. He said the Irular tribe, including Villi and Vettaikaran, in the Union Territory were recognised as a Scheduled Tribe and they were entitled to reservation of wards. It was also brought to the notice of the judges that a couple of writ petitions were filed before the first Division Bench early this month challenging the previous election notification. Then, the court found certain anomalies in the reservation of wards and instructed the government and the SEC to correct those anomalies. Thereafter, the government decided to conduct the pollsafter withdrawing the reservation for BCs and STs, though the first Division Bench had not issued any such direction. Since the denial of reservation goes against the Constitutional mandate, the petitioner urged the court to quash the October 6 G.O. and the consequent election notification. The judges directed Government Pleader N. Mala and advocate V. Chandrasekhar representing the SEC to file their counter affidavits by October 21 and ordered that all further proceedings regarding the local bodies polls be kept in abeyance.  The withdrawal of reservation is unconstitutional and in violation of statutes governing the conduct of local bodies elections in Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keep-ut-civic-elections-process-in-abeyance-hc/article36956223.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for Ayudha Puja||The Chennai traffic police have announced arrangements for special buses in view of Ayudha Puja to ensure that people can commute from the city without any hassles. Special buses are scheduled to be operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) on Tuesday and Wednesday from three places: Tambaram railway station bus stand, Poonamallee bus stand and Koyambedu bus stand. From Tambaram, buses bound for Tiruvannamalai via Tindivanam will be operated. Similarly, buses via Polur, Chetpet, Vandhavasi and Gingee and buses bound for Panruti, Neyveli, Vadalur, Chidambaram and Kattumannarkoil via Tindivanam will be operated from here. Buses bound for Puducherry, Cuddalore and Chidambaram via Tindivanam will also depart from here. Special buses bound for Vellore, Arani, Arcot, Tirupattur, Kancheepuram, Cheyyar, Hosur and Tiruttani will be operated from Poonamallee. From Koyambedu, buses will be operated to Puducherry, Chidambaram, Cuddalore via ECR, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam,Tiruvarur, Thiruthuraipoondi, Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Ariyalur, Jayankondam, Tiruchi, Madurai, Thirunelveli, Sengottai, Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Nagercoil, Kanniyakumari, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Karaikudi, Pudukottai, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tiruppur, Erode, Ooty, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Coimbatore and Bengaluru. Passengers have been requested to follow all COVID-19 norms and wear masks during their journey. All TNSTC buses from Koyambedu bound for various places will not take the 100-feet road to reach Tambaram. Instead, they will take the route via Poonamallee High Road, Maduravoyal bypass and Maduravoyal toll plaza and reach Tambaram and Perungalathur. SETC buses will go via Poonamallee High Road, Vanagaram, Nazarathpet and Outer Ring Road and reach Vandalur. They will not pass through Tambaram and Perungalathur. Similarly, omni buses operating from Koyambedu that are bound for other districts should take the route of Poonamallee High Road, Maduravoyal bypass and Maduravoyal toll plaza and pass via Perungalathur. Omni buses towards ECR will be permitted via 100-feet road, Kathipara, Guindy and Sardar Patel Road (OMR, ECR), subject to approval by traffic police. Omni buses should avoid boarding passengers on 100-feet road, Poonamallee High Road in front of CMRL, Alandur Metro and K.K. Nagar. Those passengers could be asked to board from Koyambedu/Tambaram or Vandalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-ayudha-puja/article36956236.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duo pose as policemen, steal jewellery from woman||Two unidentified persons robbed a 59-year-old woman of her jewellery while posing as police personnel in Chembarambakkam bus stand on Sunday. The police said the victim V. Rajeshwari was waiting at the bus stand at 9.30 a.m. on Sunday when two men asked why she was not wearing a mask. She panicked and mistook them for police personnel. The duo then asked her to keep her jewellery in her bag. Under the pretext of helping her put away the jewellery, the men stole it and fled. Ms. Rajeshwari later realised the theft and lodged a complaint at the Nazarathpet police station. Theft in Ashok Nagar Meanwhile, the Ashok Nagar police arrested a 40-year-old man for stealing Rs. 10,000 in cash from a senior citizen after diverting his attention. The police said G. Krishnamurthy, 89, of West Mambalam, withdrew Rs. 10,000 in cash from a bank on Friday. While returning, Mr. Krishnamurthy was waylaid by a person who claimed to own a pharmacy in the neighbourhood and struck a conversation with him. Later, he gave Mr. Krishnamurthy a lift to his residence and in the process, stole the bag with the cash. The police arrested Siva alias Sivakumar, of Kodambakkam, in connection with the offence and remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duo-pose-as-policemen-steal-jewellery-from-woman/article36956229.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to initiate projects with residents’ participation||The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to launch civic projects with support from residents’ welfare associations under the Namakku Naame Thittam. Civic officials have started creating awareness among residents on the initiative to implement infrastructure projects using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds and funding from residents’ welfare associations. According to officials, at least Rs. 50 crore is expected to be mobilised under the Namakku Naame Thittam in the city. A total of Rs. 300 crore has been allocated by the State government. Residents will be permitted to facilitate funding of at least 33% for projects such as parks, playgrounds, roads, buildings and other civic infrastructure. Officials will create awareness on people’s participation in civic infrastructure projects. The scheme is expected to improve the self-support mechanism and increase public participation in creating and maintaining community infrastructure, they added. Namakku Naame Thittam will be implemented in all urban local bodies, including the Greater Chennai Corporation, 14 corporations, 121 municipalities and in all 528 town panchayats. The minimum public contribution for any of the identified work should be one-third of the estimated value, and there will be no upper limit. With respect to renovation of waterbodies, the minimum contribution should be 50% for desilting and bund formation. For other tasks, the minimum contribution will be one-third of the estimated value. The proposal for taking up works under the Namakku Naame Thittam (Urban) may originate from individuals, groups, such as residents’ welfare associations, institutions, public or private companies or from the community. Requests in the form of an application indicating the work to be taken up with consent for contributing at least one-third of the estimated amount have to be given to the zonal officials in the Corporation. After ascertaining the proposal’s need and feasibility, the Corporation Commissioner will ask for a detailed estimate from the implementing agency. Thereafter, the applicant should deposit the prescribed amount with the local body. Funds from industries, companies and other entities will be accepted as public contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-initiate-projects-with-residents-participation/article36956235.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water release from Poondi reservoir doubled||The Water Resources Department (WRD) doubled the outflow from the Poondi reservoir in Tiruvallur on Monday as the waterbody received inflow from upstream waterways for the second day. This is the first time in a decade that water had been discharged before the onset of the northeast monsoon. Officials of the WRD recalled that the reservoir’s floodgates were opened under similar circumstances once in 1996 and then in 2011. “We had to step up outflow to nearly 2,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) as the reservoir received inflow from one of the arms of Nagari river through Pallipet. Water from Ammapalli Dam in Andhra Pradesh and catchment areas flowed through Nagari river. Surplus water of two tanks upstream also flowed into the reservoir through Nandi river,” an official said.  88% capacity As on Monday, the Poondi reservoir has 2,840 million cubic feet (mcft) of water, which is 88% of its capacity. The department plans to maintain the water level below 34 feet against the full level of 35 feet this month as more inflow is expected during the ensuing northeast monsoon. Water released into Kosasthalaiyar river would take four or five days to drain into the sea. “Water discharged into the river will be stored in 12 checkdams downstream of Poondi before it reaches the sea. A minimum of 500 mcft will be saved in these checkdams and water will be transferred to the Cholavaram reservoir through Tamaraipakkam anicut with regulator arrangements,” an official said. Moreover, well fields along the course will be recharged and another 500 mcft of water will be harnessed through groundwater recharge, the official added. At present, Kosasthalaiyar river carried 2,000-2,500 cusecs, which was far less than its capacity of 70,000 cusecs. Flood warning was issued for villages along the river’s course, including Thirukandalam, Pudukuppam and Bandikavanur, and those in the city’s merged areas, such as Manali, Sadayankuppam and Ennore. “We plan to maintain a minimal discharge of 200-300 cusecs into the river to keep the Poondi reservoir’s water level below 34 ft even if inflow decreases. The flow in the river will help groundwater recharge and maintain river ecology. Residents of areas close to the river will also remain alert ahead of the monsoon,” an official said. The two other major reservoirs in Red Hills and Chembarambakkam have a storage of 87% and 78% respectively. “We are monitoring the water levels. Inflow for two or three days due to incessant rains will be needed to open the floodgates,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-of-water-from-poondi-reservoir-doubled/article36956239.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More half-way homes the need of the hour||After spending five years at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), Kanmani (name changed), in her 40s, is all set to move out to a half-way home. With treatment and occupational therapy helping her recover slowly, she has been employed for two years and will now take the next step towards gaining independence and re-integration. A half-way home can help a person who has recovered from mental illness in more than one way. According to the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, governments are to provide a range of services required by those with mental illnesses, like the provision of half-way homes and sheltered accommodation, in addition to medical and psychiatric care. Half-way homes are transitory residential centres for persons recovering from mental illness, who no longer require full services of a hospital, but are not yet ready for complete independent living. The objective of the facilities is to maintain the person’s mental health, while also developing and strengthening their capacity for independent or community living, said officials. “Half-way homes make transition to community living easier. For a person with poor social support, who has been under complete institutional care at a mental health establishment, transition is easier through a half-way home, where there will be vocational rehabilitation, with minimum supervision. From a half-way home, they can move to their own residences or community housing units. For a resident, a half-way home can give them the skills and confidence needed to manage themselves as they are away from a structured hospital set up,” P. Poorna Chandrika, director of IMH, said. In a novel programme, five half-way homes, which will be managed by select NGOs and staffed and managed through the District Mental Health Programme, are being set up in Tirupattur, Ramanathapuram, Tiruchi, Kanniyakumari and Madurai. “What we need are more such models for rehabilitation and reintegration of those on the path to recovery,” she said. Another government psychiatrist stressed the need for equipped half-way homes. There should be vocational trainers, psychologists and social workers. In a half-way home, patient’s relatives should be able to make visits. The concept of an asylum could slowly wean-out through half-way homes (where residents can stay for less than two years) and long-stay homes (for more than two years). Dr. Chandrika said they had screened their residents as per guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for declaring a patient “fit for discharge” from mental health institutions. Thirty of them were found eligible to move to half-way homes. An NGO representative, selected to manage a half-way home, said often, families were unwilling to take in persons who had recovered from mental illness. “This is where half-way homes play a vital role. We can concentrate on skill-oriented training that will help them get a livelihood,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-half-way-homes-the-need-of-the-hour/article36956278.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Counting of votes in rural local bodies polls today||The counting of votes polled during the first and second phases of the ordinary rural local bodies elections, held in the nine newly created districts, is scheduled to commence at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. As many as 23,998 posts are expected to be filled through the ordinary elections in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Vellore and Villupuram districts. As many as 79,433 candidates were in the fray. Votes polled in other districts to fill casual vacancies will also be counted on Tuesday. All activities during the counting of votes will be recorded, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission said on Monday. “Candidates, their agents, counting agents and officials involved in the counting process will not be allowed to carry their mobile phones inside the counting centres,” the TNSEC said in an official release. The general public will not be allowed inside the centres. A total of 31,245 officials will be involved in the counting of votes at 74 centres in the nine districts. Over 6,200 officials and police personnel will be involved in security arrangements. The ballot boxes, kept in the strongrooms at the counting centres, will be shifted to sorting rooms, in the presence of the agents of the candidates, and then will be taken to the counting rooms. The entire sequencing of events will be recorded in CCTV cameras, the Commission said. The updates can be accessed on the TNSEC portal from that time. State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Monday chaired a meeting to review the arrangements being made for the counting on Tuesday. He instructed officials to avoid crowding and to ensure that distancing norms are adhered to. After the counting is done, the first meeting and taking over of the newly elected as ward members and presidents of village panchayats will be held on October 20. Indirect elections for electing presidents and vice presidents to district panchayats, panchayat unions, town panchayats and village panchayats in the nine districts will be held on October 22. Training for using EVMs On Monday, a training programme for 120 master trainers was organised, and engineers from Bharat Electronics Limited explained the usage of electronic voting machines that are to be employed during the urban local bodies polls. Mr. Palanikumar chaired a meeting to discuss arrangements for the conduct of polls to urban local bodies. TNSEC Secretary V. Amuthavalli, Commissioner of Town Panchayats R. Selvaraj, Director of Municipal Administration P. Ponniah, Chennai Corporation’s Regional Deputy Commissioner (South) Simranjeet Singh Kahlon and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-of-votes-in-rural-local-bodies-polls-today/article36956220.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1st-year engg. classes from Oct. 25||Classes for first-year engineering students will begin on October 25, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi has said. A total of 5,970 candidates have been admitted to engineering colleges under the 7.5% special reservation for government school students. The Higher Education Minister said all students admitted under the quota would be accommodated in colleges. He told reporters that admissions to all courses in State-run universities, including Anna University, would follow the State’s 69% reservation policy. Admissions to the M. Tech Biotechnology programme at Anna University will be conducted by the university, he said. The two-year interdisciplinary programme has been supported by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) since 1986. Until 2019, the Jawaharlal Nehru University conducted the combined entrance examination for biotechnology, and candidates admitted to the programme received Rs. 1 lakh as annual scholarship. After the Union government introduced the 10% quota for economically weaker sections, the university was advised to follow the norm, but it refused to do so as the State had not adopted the quota system. Mr. Ponmudi said the Chief Minister would be writing in a couple of days to the Union Education Minister that the State would conduct its own entrance test for admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1st-year-engg-classes-from-october-25/article36956224.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||First dose coverage reaches 67%: Minister||At the end of the fifth mega vaccination camp on Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s first dose coverage of COVID-19 vaccines reached 67%, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “Till Sunday morning, the first dose coverage was at 64%. It rose to 67%, with nearly 22.5 lakh doses being administered at the mega camp,” he told reporters on Monday. About 25 lakh people were due for their second dose of COVID-19 — six lakh for Covaxin and 19 lakh for Covishield — till Sunday morning. “Of these, 11.02 lakh people got their second dose at the mega camp on Sunday. The remaining people, due to receive their second dose, should come forward and get vaccinated,” he said. The Minister said focus was on districts that had low seroprevalence, and additional doses were allocated to them. Medical camps Medical camps will be organised in 50 places, including in Chennai, across all districts as part of Varumun kappom , the preventive healthcare scheme of the State government, on Tuesday. Every year, 1,250 camps will be held under the scheme, which was recently re-launched by the Chief Minister in Salem. Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had launched the scheme in December 2006, but it was not implemented in the last 10 years of AIADMK rule, the Minister said. Services available Over 20 healthcare services, such as general medicine, general surgery, maternal and child healthcare, screening for renal diseases, cervical and breast cancers, and diagnostic services such as ultrasound and ECG will be available at the camps. The camps will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Those who need higher treatment will be referred to district headquarters hospitals or government medical college hospitals. While COVID-19 vaccination services will be available, a facility to get Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme cards will also be set up, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-dose-coverage-reaches-67-minister/article36956217.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre to treat, research Stevens Johnson Syndrome launched||Sankara Nethralaya and The Sanmar Group on Monday inaugurated the SN-Sanmar Centre of Excellence for Stevens Johnson Syndrome (SeNSCE SJS). Inaugurating the centre on Monday, The Sanmar Group deputy chairman Vijay Sankar said the development of the centre was a unique initiative that would have a global reach. Sankara Nethralaya senior consultant Geetha Iyer said the volume of patients in India was huge. “It is estimated that the disease affects 30,000 children and adults worldwide every year,” she said. Stevens Johnson Syndrome (SJS), a life-threatening reaction to common medication like antibiotics and anti-malarial drugs, is a rare disease that leads to corneal blindness during its later stages. Young individuals with the condition have a lifetime of varying grades of blindness ahead of them. As pioneers in the field of ophthalmology, Sankara Nethralaya has been at the forefront in managing the ocular sequelae of SJS. The centre plans to undertake State-level and national-level initiatives towards integrating care provided across the varied stages and specialities of the disease, with the help of the respective medical speciality societies. The Dr. G. Sitalakshmi Memorial Clinic for Ocular Surface Disorders at Sankara Nethralaya, has two decades of experience in artificial corneal transplant using one’s own tooth for patients with SJS as well as in highly specialised procedures that prevent and treat corneal blindness. The clinic has also been focussing on research related to the condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-to-treat-research-stevens-johnson-syndrome-launched/article36956234.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC comes down on private schools for admitting students without affiliation||The Madras High Court has deprecated the practice of private schools admitting students without getting affiliated to the relevant board of education. The court said school managements cannot wriggle out of their obligations by simply stating that students were informed of the pending applications for affiliation and that their admission would be subject to grant of affiliation. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana made the observations while penning her individual thoughts despite concurring with her companion judge, Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy, on a Division Bench on the need to come to the rescue of 27 students whose final year marks were not declared because a private school in Cuddalore had admitted them directly in Class XII without prior permission of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). A single judge of the court had on August 10 dismissed the writ petition filed by the CBSE school at Keezhur in Neyveli on the ground that no misplaced sympathy could be shown by the court. However, when the matter was taken on appeal to the Division Bench, the two judges said the students could not be punished for no fault of theirs by not declaring their results this year and forced to appear for the public exams next year. The judges pointed out that the Keezhur school had applied for CBSE affiliation for Classes I to X in 2015 and obtained it in 2017. Thereafter, in 2018, it applied for affiliation of Classes XI and XII but the affiliation was granted only on January 9, 2020. As per the affiliation, the school could admit students in Class XI with effect from April 2019 and the first batch of Class XII students could write their public exams in March 2021. Class XII admission In June 2020, the school admitted 27 students directly in Class XII since they were finding it difficult to travel about 80 km a day to study in another CBSE school. After admitting them, the school made repeated representations to the Regional Officer of CBSE to approve their admissions but their plea was rejected on multiple occasions. Hence, the school filed a writ petition and obtained interim orders for the students to take practical examinations. However, when it came to final disposal of the writ petition, the single judge refused to allow the school to use the students as a shield and held that they would have no option but to appear for the public exams next year. Disagreeing with the view taken by the single judge, the Division Bench directed CBSE to declare the results of all 27 students on the basis of internal marks since public exams had been cancelled this year due to COVID-19. The Bench made it clear that its verdict should not be cited as a precedent by other schools which admit students in violation of the rules and regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-down-on-unaffiliated-schools-for-admitting-students/article36956241.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons, including a school student, were killed and another was critically injured when the car they were travelling in rammed a stationary mini lorry in Redhills on Monday. Among the victims was K. Kanishka, 15, a Class XI student at a school in Panchetti, hailing from Karikalan Nagar in Padiyanallur. Her sister Aswitha, 13, is a Class VIII student in the same school. On Monday morning, their uncle Nagarajan, 40, was taking them to school in a car when the vehicle rammed the mini lorry on Karanodai bridge.In the impact, the car was damaged and Kanishka and Nagarajan died on the spot. Aswitha, who was battling for life, was rescued by passers-by and rushed to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article36956592.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police advise people to ignore malicious links, SMS alerts on jobs, KYC||The city police has issued a fresh advisory on malicious links on SMS and WhatsApp offering part-time jobs or asking bank customers to update details. Police have appealed to public not to click on such messages and delete them immediately. One of the widely circulated message is that “YOUR MOBILE NUMBER WAS SELECTED FOR PAYMENT OF 5.7 CRORE RUPEES IN E.U DONATION 2021 TO Receive SEND/ NAME/AGE/MOBILE NO TO/Email: tavernphilips@europe.com”. Similarly, fraudsters also send messages saying that SBI Yono account would be locked and asking mobile user to click a link, which is malicious, and update PAN. Or they send messages offering part-time jobs through Flipkart or Amazon to cheat the gullible public, said the police. A senior police official said such messages had been sent in bulk to mobile users recently either as SMS or on WhatsApp. “Despite warning by us, people fall prey to fraudsters. Immediately on clicking those links, the data on mobile phone of the individual will be compromised. Hence, we appeal to public not to fall prey to these tactics,” he said. Police also said people should not listen to strangers who call them on the pretext of offering a gift parcel or asking advance payment for jobs or offering business opportunity abroad or investment on oil business and seeds. They have been advised to avoid such calls. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has asked people looking for alliances on matrimony sites not to send any money to prospective bride or bridegrooms who may ask for it to send gift parcel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-advise-people-to-ignore-malicious-links-sms-alerts-on-jobs-kyc/article36956616.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jharkhand man gunned down in ‘encounter’||A 28-year-old man, Murthaza of Jharkhand, who was accused of snatching chains and opening fire to chase away his pursuers, was gunned down in an alleged encounter with the police in Mevalurkuppam village near Sriperumbudur on Monday. Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Kancheepuram, M. Sathiya Priya, said the accused had attacked a head constable with a knife, forcing the police to open fire on him. His associate Naem Akthar, 39, was arrested. According to the police, Murthaza, who was staying in a nearby village, and Akthar were suspected to have been involved in at least three cases of chain snatching in Sriperumbudur. “On Monday morning, we secured Akthar, and Murthaza was found to be in touch with him. A team entered the adjoining area of a lake when Murthaza attacked one of our head constables with a knife. When he tried to attack again, an inspector opened fire on him in retaliation,” Ms. Sathiya Priya told The Hindu.  Further investigation is on to ascertain what the two were doing in Chennai. The police also suspect their involvement in the stabbing of a Tasmac staff member and injuring another person last week. According to the police, Murthaza and Akthar were suspected to have been involved in at least three cases of chain snatching in Sriperumbudur. Around 7 a.m on Sunday, R Indrani, 55, of Pennalur village, was waiting at a bus stand near her house when the two men attempted to snatch her gold chain. Despite her resistance, the duo snatched her chain, weighing 4.5 sovereigns, and fled. Ms Indrani called up her son, who was at home, for assistance. Immediately, he and other villagers began searching the adjacent areas of the village, which is surrounded by a lake and dense bush. They managed to trace Murthaza, who allegedly opened fire in the air with a country-made gun and escaped. Upon receiving a complaint, over 200 police personnel surrounded the area from Sunday afternoon and used drones for a combing operation. DIG Sathiya Priya and SP M. Sudhakar oversaw the operation. “Right after the incident, we conducted a thorough combing operation in the area. At night, too, we tried our level best to cordon off the entire area, up to a 10 km radius. On Monday morning, we secured Akthar, and Murthaza was found to be in touch with him. A team entered the adjoining area of a lake when Murthaza attacked one of our head constables with a knife. When he tried to attack again, an inspector opened fire on him in retaliation,” Ms. Sathiya Priya told The Hindu.  The police reported the encounter death on Monday afternoon. Further investigation is on to ascertain what the two were doing in Chennai. The police also suspect their involvement in the stabbing of a Tasmac staff member and injuring another person last week. Inspector General of Police, North Zone, Santhosh Kumar, visited the area and met the injured police personnel at Government General Hospital, Sriperumbudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jharkhand-man-gunned-down-in-encounter/article36956210.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Buddhist group meets minorities board member||The trustees of Nila Dhamma, a group working to spread and create awareness on Buddhism, on Friday met Ven. Bikku Mouriyar Buddha, member, Minorities Commission, Government of Tamil Nadu, to urge the government to sort out issues related to certificates pertaining to those who have converted to Buddhism. A representative said those who convert to Buddhism face issues when they want to change their religious affiliation in the government gazette. “The officials often insist that they must also change their name,” he said. “We hope that the board ensures that officials are clarified of doubts that arise when one wants to convert to Buddhism and seek Community Certificate for reservation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buddhist-group-meets-minorities-board-member/article36956233.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child dies after ingesting repellent||A three-year-old boy died after accidentally ingesting a mosquito repellent in Pammal. Police sources said the boy, Kishore, was playing with the repellent cartridge at his house on Sunday. Since the lid was open, he ingested the liquid. His parents rushed him to a clinic nearby and was subsequently taken to the Institute Of Child Health and Hospital for Children in Egmore. Kishore died without responding to treatment. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-dies-after-ingesting-repellent/article36956237.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Process to order trains for Metro phase II on||Three big firms — Alstom Transport, BEML Limited and Titagarh Wagons — are in the running to build 26 trains for a section of the Metro’s phase II project. The construction of the phase II project, comprising the Madhavaram-SIPCOT, Poonamallee-Light House and Madhavaram-Shollinganallur corridors, has been in progress for a few months now, and the process of ordering trains has already begun as companies will need a few years to manufacture them. The State government said the whole project would be finished in five years. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they floated tenders last year calling for bidders to produce coaches, and plan to finalise the contractor by the end of this month. Similarly, the process is already underway for the Madhavaram to CMBT and Madhavaram to Shollinganallur sections. Standardised coaches Though they have invited separate bids for different stretches, trains manufactured by each company will be standardised and operated on the entire 118.9-km length of the phase II project. “The chosen firm will have to build 26 three-coach driverless trains within three years. They will deliver the prototype in two years, and after various quality checks and standardisations, the final products will be delivered in another year. There has been no discussion on the colour of the trains yet; it may remain the same or may change. But trains in phase II cannot run in the phase I tracks as they will function based on different signalling systems,” an official said. The phase I and phase II trains have some differences. While the existing trains have four coaches, the new ones will have three. Phase II trains will run on a communications-based train control signalling system while phase I trains are operated with a distance-to-go signalling system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/process-to-order-trains-for-metro-phase-ii-begins/article36956231.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK general body meet on Saturday||The PMK, which went alone in the recent rural local bodies polls in the nine districts, has called for a special general body meeting on Saturday to discuss the results that will be declared on Tuesday. The party will also chart its future course and devise strategies to build the organisation at the grassroots during the virtual meeting. Contrary to speculations that G.K. Mani could be replaced as party president, the special meeting will be presided over by him. “This will be an opportunity for us to discuss our performance in the local bodies elections. We will also discuss the policies that must to be adopted in the future,” said a senior party member. When asked if the alliance with AIADMK would be discussed, PMK sources reiterated that the party’s decision to contest alone was a one-time decision. Sources said there was no doubt over Mr. Mani’s position as president, a post he has held since 1998.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-general-body-meet-on-saturday/article36956279.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Peelamedu residents want civic body to develop scheme road||The Coimbatore Corporation recently passed a resolution to ask Director, Town and Country Planning, for Rs. 9.06 crore from the Coimbatore Local Planning Authority fund to lay a scheme road linking Avinashi Road to Ellai Thottam Road in Peelamedu. The Corporation passed the resolution at the September 15 Council meeting in response to a contempt petition filed by the Peelamedu Consumer Voice before the Madras High Court. The consumer organisation led by secretary P.V. Gopal was forced to file the petition because it found the Corporation to be doing little on the Court order passed on December 17, 2009. The proposed scheme, which finds a mention in Singanallur Development Plan 27, branches off north of Avinashi Road, opposite the National Model School, passed through the Provident Fund staff quarters and vacant lands north thereof and connects Ellai Thottam Road. It provides an ideal alternative route for people now moving south to north or vice versa through the P.K.D. Nagar and gives quick access from Peelamedu to Gandhi Managar, Ganapathy and other areas in the north. And, for those in Gandhi Managar, Ganapathy, it gives a quick access to Peelamedu, G.V. Residency, Sowripalayam and areas east and south of Avinashi Road. It was for this reason that the Peelamedu Consumer Voice wanted the road developed, Mr. Gopal said. The Corporation’s initial alignment was to take the entire 40 feet wide road through the Provident Fund staff quarters. The civic body later changed the alignment to push the road a little east. As per the revised alignment, the Corporation was to build one half of the road through the quarters – 20 feet – and the rest 20 feet on vacant lands east of it. This forced those land owners to move a Coimbatore court. Meanwhile, the Provident Fund commissionerate also moved the Madras High Court and then the Supreme Court. Though the verdict was in favour of building as per the revised alignment, the Corporation did nothing. It was for this reason that the consumer body moved the Court, Mr. Gopal explained. The Corporation sources said, consequent upon the Court order the Council had passed a resolution asking for money for acquiring the land. It had also written to the Revenue Department. If the Coimbatore Local Planning Authority were to pass a resolution and send it to the Director, Town and Country Planning, the Corporation would go ahead to lay the road, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peelamedu-residents-want-civic-body-to-develop-scheme-road/article36956268.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmers accuse industry of polluting village, seek action||Farmers in Thirumalayampalayam in Madukkarai taluk have urged the district administration to check pollution in the village. In a petition submitted at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday, S. Shanmugam, the taluk president of Tamil Nadu Vivasayeegal Sangam, said that an industry engaged in burning coconut shells was responsible for pollution in the area. The farmers’ lands and ground water was polluted because of the industry, he said and sought steps to prevent pollution by shifting out the industry. Farmers in Moppiripalayam in Sulur taluk submitted a similar petition saying that a Tirupur resident had taken on lease a land in the village to set up an industry to burn coconut shells. As they feared that it would lead to air and water pollution, they wanted the officials to take steps at once so that their lands were safe. ‘Provide compensation at market rate’ Chinniyampalayam Panchayat member K. Jayaprakash on Monday submitted a petition seeking compensation at market rate for the lands to be acquired for the expansion of Coimbatore airport. In 2018, the Government fixed Rs. 1,500 a sq.ft. as compensation. If the Government were to give that amount as compensation now, they would be at loss. They would not be able to build houses similar to the ones they lived with the compensation, Mr. Jayaprakash said and pointed out that the lands abutting theirs, but outside the airport expansion area, were being sold at Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,500 a sq.ft. In this regard, the Chinniyampalayam Panchayat had passed a resolution at the October 2 Gram Sabha meeting. In the meeting, the residents had also highlighted the plight of 400 residents and 50 small and medium entrepreneurs who would stand to lose access to the nearby Irugur Road because of the land acquisition process. The administration should therefore share details of the lands to be acquired, permit owners of those lands that were not be acquired to sell their lands and increase compensation for those whose lands were to be acquired, Mr. Jayaprakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-accuse-industry-of-polluting-village-seek-action/article36956266.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexually assaulting foster daughter||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Sunday arrested a 29-year-old man hailing from Vellore on charges of sexually assaulting his foster daughter aged 13 after marrying her forcibly. A chain of crimes the accused committed against the girl came to light after she attempted to end life and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. The police said the accused is a native of Virupatchipuram in Vellore and the girl hails from a village in the same district. The accused started living with the girl’s mother three years ago after her second husband died. The woman has three kids in the second marriage and the survivor girl in the first marriage. The woman’s first husband had left her. She has a six-month-old son in the live-in relationship with the accused, said the police. According to the police, the accused, a mason by occupation, had brought the 13-year-old girl to Coimbatore in March this year. He took her back to Vellore and brought her again to Coimbatore in July. The police said the man forcibly married the girl in a temple and started living in a village near K.G. Chavadi. On Saturday, he came home in inebriated condition and assaulted the girl. Neighbours took her to the K.G. Chavadi police station. It was found that she had already consumed a poisonous substance and she was rushed to the CMCH. Statement A police team led by Perur inspector Parvin Banu recorded the girl’s statement after her condition improved. To their shock, the police were told that the accused was her foster father and he sexually assaulted her several times after forcibly marrying her. The police arrested him.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling Sneha 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-foster-daughter/article36956271.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for abetting suicide||The Uthukuli police in Tiruppur rural arrested a dominant caste man on charges of abetting the suicide of a Dalit man. The police said P. Ganesh (63) of Alangattu Pudur at Pallagoundenpalayam near Uthukuli was arrested on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody. A senior police officer said P. Karuppusamy (60), who also hailed from Alangattu Pudur, had borrowed Rs. 35,000 from Ganesh a year ago. Karuppusamy, who worked as the security guard of a bank at Uthukuli, repaid Rs. 24,000 and Ganesh had been demanding him to pay the remaining amount. The police said Ganesh, came to the bank on Friday evening and scolded Karuppusamy for not having repaid the amount. Ganesh allegedly used casteist remarks against him. On Sunday, Karuppusamy was found dead near a temple in the locality. The police said a note left by the deceased was found from his house in which it was stated that he took the extreme step since the accused scolded him using foul words and discriminated his caste.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling Sneha 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-abetting-suicide/article36956272.ece
12 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chamber seeks steps to improve infrastructure in Coimbatore||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has sought support from the State government to develop infrastructure in Coimbatore and to ensure ease of doing business for the industries here. A delegation of the office-bearers of the Chamber, led by its president C. Balasubramanian, met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Monday and submitted a memorandum on the needs of the district. Demands Some of the main demands on the infrastructure front included setting up of Coimbatore Tiruppur Metropolitan Development Authority on the lines of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, development of a Semmozhi Poonga in the city, establishment of a multi modal logistics park, formation of ring roads, widening of road from Karanampettai to Karur and from Kovilpalayam to Bannari. On the ease of doing business, the Chamber said the government should introduce a samadhan scheme for entry tax, a one-time settlement scheme to settle VAT and CST issues, single window clearance for building plan approvals, and implementation of measures suggested by the committee formed by the State government to revive MSMEs. The chamber also demanded focus on environment issues such as the need to conserve ground water and protect the lakes in the city. Regarding agriculture, the Chamber said the government should not permit use of fertile agriculture land for any other purpose and should take all steps to protect the interests of the farmers.  Delegation meets Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and submits memorandum on the needs of the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-seeks-steps-to-improve-infrastructure-in-coimbatore/article36956259.ece
12 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to launch ‘Varumun Kappom’ health scheme today||The Coimbatore Corporation will launch the ‘Kalaignarin Varumun Kappom’ health scheme on Tuesday at the Chinnavedampatty Middle School. A release said the civic body would offer services related to general medicine, general surgery, paediatrics, gynaecology, ENT, ophthalmology, and other disciplines. In all, the Corporation would deploy doctors with 10 different specialisations who would screen the public and recommend the next appropriate course of action. The Corporation had planned to hold four such camps, where it would also offer blood test, ultra sound, ECG at no cost and medicines as well. The civic body would also assist those who required surgery with insurance under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, the release said and added that the Corporation would also offer COVID-19 vaccination besides these services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-launch-varumun-kappom-health-scheme-today/article36956277.ece
12 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lay gas pipeline away from water lines: Corporation||The Coimbatore Corporation has asked agencies laying underground power lines and gas pipelines to lay them either deeper than its water pipelines or away at a safe distance. Sources in the civic body said after an agency twice damaged water pipelines in West Zone and another agency damaged lines in East Zone, the Corporation was forced to issue such a direction to the agencies concerned. In the East Zone, the Corporation asked the agency laying underground power lines to compensate the loss to the pipelines. In the West Zone, the damage to water lines had disrupted water supply in and around Kavundampalayam and Edayarpalaym in the past week, the sources said. Using the opportunity, the civic body, to prevent recurrence of such issues, had asked those agencies to either lay their pipelines or cables beneath its water pipelines or away, so that it was easier to repair the damaged pipelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lay-gas-pipeline-away-from-water-lines-corporation/article36956264.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two die in accident||Two men died in an accident at Palladam near Tiruppur on Sunday. The police said Kishan Singh (64) of Jharkhand, a mill worker, was walking on Coimbatore Road when a two-wheeler that had Rishiram (25) and Sriram (20) as rider and pillion rider hit him. While Kishan Singh died on the spot Sriram died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-accident/article36956275.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Art exhibition||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust is organising Meet Coimbatore Artists and 196th painting expo from October 15 to 24 on the Art Gallery premises on Avanashi Road. The exhibition will be held from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/art-exhibition/article36956381.ece
12 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital organised a signature campaign on the occasion of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. K. Madeswaran, chairman and consultant neurosurgeon, recommended annual mammogram investigation for women over 45 years. Early detection and appropriate treatment would lead to complete cure, he said. N. Sudhakar, consultant oncologist, said breast self examination was must once a month. Earlier, a signature campaign was organised at the Sakthi Engineering College.   Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust is organising ‘Meet Coimbatore Artists and 196th painting expo’ from October 15 to 24 on the art gallery premises on Avanashi Road. The exhibition will be held from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Artists T. Mathiniraiselvan and Joseph Chacko will display their works for sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36956260.ece
12 October 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Master plan for Hogenakkal development soon: Minister||A master plan is being prepared for Hogenakkal development and funds to the tune of up to Rs. 15 crore is being proposed, said the Minister for Tourism M.Mathiventhan here on Monday. The Minister arrived at Hogenakkal on Monday to ascertain the existing infrastructure and take stock of the demands made of the tourist spot. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines, Mr. Mathiventhan said there has been a fall in tourists due to COVID-19, while prior to the pandemic, the tourist spot had a steady traffic of tourists running into lakhs. On the proposed development plan for Hogenakkal, the Minister said a detailed project report was under way. The government was looking to exploring the possibilities for theme park, water adventure sports etc as part of the master plan, Mr. Mathiventhan said. “We are looking at developing the existing infrastructure, be the bathing and dressing spaces, viewing spots, cooking spots etc. At the same time, we are also exploring the possibilities for making the location more attractive.” Unlike earlier times, this government was committed to developing tourists spots and exclusive funds are being allocated for the development of each tourist spot, Mr. Mathiventhan said. Earlier, the Minister inspected the footpaths, bathing spaces, viewing point and coracle jetty. He was accompanied by Collector S.Dhivyadarshini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/master-plan-for-hogenakkal-development-soon-minister/article36956368.ece
12 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Fake advocate gets six-year jail term for cheating couple||The Dindigul Judicial Magistrate II has sentenced a man to six-year imprisonment for posing as an advocate and cheating an elderly couple to the tune of at least Rs. 43 lakh by forging a court order. Judicial Magistrate II K. Karthik said the man had committed an offence against the layman’s Supreme Court, the district judiciary. His act was nothing but digital terrorism. The case of the prosecution was that M. Karthik approached a couple, M. Umaiyan and Kalyani, posing as an advocate, and offered to help them. Karthik’s brother Sivan and the son of the couple Sivanath were both accused in a murder case. Karthik promised the couple that he would get both the accused in the case acquitted and obtained lakhs of rupees from them. But, whenever the couple contacted Karthik to know the case status, he would tell them that he was waiting for the order copy. He then produced a court order copy to the couple which stated that the accused in the case were acquitted. When Umaiyan showed the court order to some advocates he knew, it was brought to light that the copy was a forged one and Karthik was not an advocate. Karthik was booked under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code. He had forged an advocate’s identity card too. Karthik was convicted and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for the offences, consecutively amounting to six years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-for-fake-advocate/article36956330.ece
12 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Counting of votes in rural local bodies polls in Erode today||All arrangements were in place for the counting of votes for the causal election to the rural civic body in the district on Tuesday. Of the 27 vacancies, office-bearers for seven posts were elected unopposed in two panchayat unions and polling was held at 144 polling stations on October 9. Polling was peaceful as 70.22% electors exercised their franchise in which 65 persons contested. Arrangements were in place at all the nine counting centres at the respective panchayat unions when counting will take place on Tuesday. Direct elections were held for District Panchayat ward member – Ammapettai, ward 5, Panchayat Union ward member – Erode Panchayat Union (ward 4), Perundurai Panchayat Union (ward 10), and Village Panchayat president – Anthiyur (Sangarapalayam), Chennimalai (Mugasipulavanpalayam), Nambiyur (Kudakarai), and Perundurai (Karukkupalayam). Election for Village Panchayat ward member were held at Ammapettai (Boodampadi ward 4, Mugasipudur ward 2, and Singampettai ward 5), Anthiyur – Brahmadesam ward 15, Bhavani – Andikulam ward 3, Chinnapuliyur ward 1, Odathurai ward 7, Oricheri ward 9, Bhavanisagar – Nallur ward 1, Nambiyur – Kudakarai ward 6, Perundurai – Thudupathi ward 11, and T.N. Palayam Panchayat Union – Kondaiyampalayam wards 2 and 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-of-votes-in-rural-local-bodies-polls-in-erode-today/article36956370.ece
12 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers oppose outsourcing of sanitation work||Members of the Erode District Rural Development Local Body Workers' Association staged a sit-in-protest on Collectorate premises here on Monday urging the Corporation to drop its move to outsource sanitations works. The workers said that of the 1,700 conservancy staff involved in sanitation works in all the 60 wards, over 1,200 are temporary workers who were paid consolidated wages. They were involved in cleaning residential areas, commercial complexes, markets and bazaar streets and removing garbage, segregation of municipal solid waste and sending it for recycling. Also, workers were involved in removing clogs in drainage channels. But it is learnt that the civic body had proposed to outsource all the works that was confirmed by a government order issued on October 2. The order asked local bodies to outsource all the works by appointing contractors so that the works of temporary workers need not be regularised. The move has come as a shock to the temporary workers, who were demanding for job regularisation. “If the works were privatised, sanitation cannot be ensured in all the 60 wards”, they said.Also, they wanted the civic body to regularise the jobs of workers who have worked 480 days as temporary workers. Over 500 workers staged a sit-in-protest on the premises and the police held talks with them. Later, their representatives meet District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan who promised to hold talks over the issue. Later, the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-oppose-outsourcing-of-sanitation-work/article36956374.ece
12 October 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 75 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 75 new cases taking the total tally to 1,02,803. While 93 persons were discharged, 937 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 52 positive cases. According to health officials, 40 cases were indigenous and 12 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 57 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-75-covid-19-cases/article36956371.ece
12 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for smuggling PDS rice||Civil Supplies CID police arrested two persons, who tried to smuggle 750 kg rice meant for public distribution system. Police intercepted a mini-auto rickshaw found transporting the rice during a vehicle check on Kavilipalayam four road at Punjai Puliyampatti. Inquiries revealed that driver Shanmugam (37) of Avinashi and Kumar alias Chithirai Kumar (42) of Puliyampatti purchased the rice from Erode and transporting it to Tiruppur to sell to migrant workers. The rice and vehicle were seized. The two were produced in the court and lodged at sub-jail at Gobichettipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-smuggling-pds-rice/article36956372.ece
12 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Gang with counterfeit currency notes arrested||Police seized counterfeit notes to the tune of Rs. 4.56 crore and arrested a gang involved in conning public through sorcery here in Krishnagiri. The arrests were made over the weekend, after the police intercepted an Andhra Pradesh registered vehicle that eventually led them to the gang housed in a rented accommodation at Sathya Sai Nagar near Tamil Nadu Housing Board on Rayakottai road here. According to the police, a car was intercepted near Rayakottai underbridge here following a tip-off that a gang was roaming around the town conning people into parting with their money on the promise that the money would be doubled through sorcery using a metal pot. Upon interrogation of the three persons, later named accused, L.Ganesan (38) of Karaikudi, V.Ramesh (52) and R.Imran Khan (30) of Andhra Pradesh in the car, police were led to a rented accommodation near Tamil Nadu Housing Board. Seven other accused that included B.Shankar (39), M.Raja (33), P.Jeeva(30), all three hailing from Krishnagiri; A.Jose (42), A Mohammad (34), and Vijo Johnson(35), from Kerala; A.Mohamad Kaus (29) from Bengaluru, and C.Murugesh from Erode were apprehended. Two other accused, a Hari and Muniraj, of Chennai were absconding. According to the police, the accused went about the town promising to double their money through sorcery using a powerful metal pot. The accused had conned some persons by showing counterfeit notes of Rs. 2,000. The accused were arrested and remanded under Sections 489 (a), (b) and (c) and 420 of IPC. Five high-end vehicles, counterfeit notes to the tune of Rs. 4.56 crore and Rs. 60,000 in cash, and 22 mobile phones were also seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-with-counterfeit-currency-notes-arrested/article36956364.ece
12 October 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Fair price shop staff allege salary delay||Members of the fair price outlets employees association staged a demonstration demanding fair wages, regularisation of employment among an array of demands here on Monday. The employees demanded regular pay on the stipulated date. The protesters claimed that there were delays in payment of salaries. They also demanded compensation for workers, who had died of COVID-19 and demanded employment to a family member of those deceased. A model pay structure should be drafted and followed for the fair price shop employees across the state, according to the protesters. The protesters called filling up of 3,500 vacancies in the outlets. Similarly, 8,000 vacancies of weighing staff should be filled servicing more than 500 family cards, the association said. According to the association, there are over 5,000 employees whose jobs were not regularised. The employment of these workers should be regularised and employment should provide for promotion and pay raise. The protesters also demanded 4 G enabled point of Sales (POS) machines and that workers be provided with 4 G Sim cards to enable uninterrupted connectivity. Further, until such time point of sales machines are issued with upgraded connectivity, the employees should be provided monthly phone allowance of Rs. 400 for android.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fair-price-shop-staff-allege-salary-delay/article36956366.ece
12 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Motorcyclist killed in accident||A 60-year-old man was killed when he was run over by a truck at Pochampalli late Sunday night. According to the police, a lorry from Harur was crossing Pochampalli four-road junction, when the victim Murugan along with his wife Nallamal and their grandson Inbasekaran (7) were heading on their motorcycle. The lorry driven by Anbu(39) of Harur proceeding towards Hosur hit Murugan’s motorcycle. Murugan was dragged under the wheels of the lorry and was killed on the spot. However, Nallamal and Inbasekaran escaped with minor injuries. Pochampalli police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcyclist-killed-in-accident/article36956365.ece
12 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Redress meetings every week for registration-related issues||With a view to redressing the grievances of the public pertaining to registration, from henceforth grievance redress meetings would be held by the Registration Department on every Monday, said Minister for Commercial Taxes, Registration and Stamp Law P. Moorthy. Inaugurating the first such meeting at the Integrated Complex of Registration Department in Y. Othakadai here on Monday, he said that steps had been taken to simplify document registration. If the public had any grievance, they could petition the officials and a solution would be arrived at within a week. All grievances would be looked into and the petitions disposed of as expeditiously as possible, he said. The Minister said that in order to prevent registration of fake documents, the Registration Department had made it mandatory for document writers and advocates to affix their photographs and enter their registration numbers on documents. As a result of this, incidents of attempts to register fake documents had come down. As of now there were 575 Sub-Registrar offices in Tamil Nadu. More offices would be opened across the State, he said. He said that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department was identifying and retrieving encroached temple lands in the State. On receiving information on retrieval of such lands, the Registration Department would mark these lands so that they cannot be registered by any individual, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redress-meetings-every-week-for-registration-related-issues/article36956619.ece
12 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled people say they are left out of job scheme||As in the last week’s meeting, the public grievance redress meeting held on Monday also saw a huge crowd of petitioners at Madurai Collectorate. This is the second meeting where physical presence of petitioners was allowed ever since COVID-19-induced lockdown came into effect. District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari presided over the meeting and received petitions from the public. There were many differently abled petitioners, mostly seeking jobs or some form of employment for sustenance. A group of 17 differently abled villagers from Ayyankotttai Pudur near Vadipatti submitted a petition, saying they were left out of the 100-day job scheme under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. According to K. Nagabaskar, a functionary of a differently abled people’s association, differently abled people are paid a daily wage of Rs. 274, while it is Rs. 175 for others. Their job includes looking after the children of the workers on the field, fetching water to the workers, etc. “After a petition was submitted to this effect at a meeting last month, differently abled people were drafted for work for only three weeks. Now, they are again languishing without a job,” he said. They were promised that their grievance would be redressed in a few days, he said. Another differently abled man, J. Selvaganesan, 43, from Mullai Nagar in BB Kulam, sought assistance to set up an Aavin milk booth. After he met with an accident, his right leg had to be totally amputated. A well-built man, he had been working as a driver and now moves slowly with a walker. The day also saw yet another differently abled man, Chithiravel, 55, of Azhagankulam near Pudhu Tamaraipatti receiving a tricycle from the DRO. District Differently Abled Officer R. Ravichandran said this beneficiary was left out when many others received the aid costing Rs. 7,500 last week. It was sanctioned from the funds allotted to the district, he said. A petition seeking construction of adequate public toilets in Perungudi was also submitted. No public toilets K. Sumathi of Perungudi said that there were no public toilets for about 1,500 residents of Ambedkar Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar and Pasumpon Nagar. This had resulted in open defecation, she said and called for construction of adequate number of toilets in the area. Among the huge number of petitioners, quite a few sought free house or patta. They were asked to utilise the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), a subsidy scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-are-left-out-of-job-scheme/article36956608.ece
12 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Algal bloom: sea turns green in Gulf of Mannar||In a rare phenomenon called algal bloom, the sea has turned green in Gulf of Mannar in Ramanathapuram district - from Pamban to Vedhalai, and Periyapattinam to Keelakarai - in the past few days. When thousands of fish washed ashore, fishermen were alarmed. According to R. Jeyakumar, Principal Scientist with the regional centre of Centre for Marine Fisheries Research Institute, a green algae called noctulica scintillans occurs during September and October - the window period between the southwest and northeast monsoons. This rapid increase of algae population happens due to a combination of factors such as rise in sea temperature and low wind condition. Because of the low wind, the algae which thrives on nutrition, settles inside the bay region, because of the static water caused due to low wind and without scope for dispersion. This phenomena started 12 to 14 nautical miles off Rameswaram coast in the Gulf of Mannar and migrated into the Keelakarai bay, causing death of fish species such as eel which thrive in coral reefs and never migrate. Other fish species had migrated away from the algae. Mr. Jeyakumar said, “This is not the first time that this is happening. It occurred in 2018, and for the past three consecutive years since 2018.” Near the shore, a green and blue florescence is witnessed at night off Keelakarai. “We are coordinating with INS Parundu in Uchipuli, to study the coast in Thondi region, and also with the Satellite Application Centre in Ahmedabad to gauge the chlorophyll content of the algae. Based on these findings, we’ll advise fisherfolk involved in cage farming so that they can move the cages, if need be,” Mr. Jeyakumar said. Ramanathapuram district administration has started clearing the algae.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/algal-bloom-sea-turns-green-in-gulf-of-mannar/article36956355.ece
12 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC nod for biogas plant in village||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition seeking a direction to restrain Pudukkottai district administration from establishing a biogas plant in Melapanaiyur near Thirumayam. Establishing a biogas plant in the village would only benefit the villagers, observed a Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar. The court was hearing a petition filed by K. R. Rajendran of Pudukkottai district. The court took note of the fact that the land where the biogas plant was being established was a vacant land belonging to the government and not a waterbody. The petitioner had said that the biogas plant would block a water course leading to an oorani. The State submitted that the biogas project was a Central government project. Establishing the plant on a vacant land belonging to the government would not affect the environment or disturb the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-nod-for-biogas-plant-in-village/article36956351.ece
12 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||60 differently abled people receive wheelchairs||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan distributed wheelchairs to 60 differently abled people from the Madurai Central constituency at an event held hereon Monday. He made the contribution from his own funds. He also distributed a laptop and a mobile phone to two girl students. The Finance Minister said that he had met the two students at a Chief Minister’s event held last week to distribute COVID-19 relief assistance to children who had lost their parents. The students required the laptop and mobile phone for their education, he said and added that he was happy to have helped for a good cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-differently-abled-people-receive-wheelchairs/article36956621.ece
12 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai roads need urgent attention, MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has urged Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to immediately take steps to repair and relay roads in Madurai. In his letter to the CM, the MP said that for over three years the city had been left with dust everywhere in view of development works. Even main thoroughfares in the heart of the city were in tatters.Madurai Corporation, the MP said, was facing a fund crunch to the tune of Rs. 500 crore due to various reasons. Hence, it would be difficult for the civic body to either repair the roads or relay them. The civic authorities were engaged in laying underground drainage pipes in central and northern parts of the city. At least 15 wards in north Madurai were in a bad shape. Most of the residents in the extension areas and added wards faced a harrowing experience every day. With the advent of monsoon, it was all the more urgent to repair the roads and fill potholes to mitigate the sufferings of pedestrians and two-wheeler riders, the MP said. Mr. Venkatesan also stressed the need for improving the air quality in the city. In a study done for 269 days, the air quality was ‘good’ only 22 days, it was ‘satisfactory’ for 237 and ‘moderate’ for 10 days. Hence, the civic authorities should complete the development works at the earliest and ensure that construction debris were removed from the roadside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-roads-need-urgent-attention-mp/article36956628.ece
12 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hydroponics for sustainable living||As part of Green Action Week (GAW), observed annually in the first week of October as part of a global campaign to promote sustainable consumption, the Madurai chapter focussed on hydroponics, the soil-less agriculture, to showcase its nature conservation activity in 2021. The GAW campaign, an initiative of Swedish Society for Nature Conservation, is run by 60 organisations across 40 countries. India co-ordinator, CUTS International, the Jaipur-based global consumer advocacy group, is partnering with and supporting 12 organisations across 12 States to collectively work to change consumption patterns among people for a sustainable living in the future. In Madurai, the Women Consumer Protection Association under the mentorship of its founder C Packialakshmi has conducted the GAW campaigns by training area coordinators who promote awareness and involve youths and students to adopt eco-friendly lifestyles and make the planet a safer and greener place for posterity. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar had recently inaugurated this year's green week from October 4 to 10 by launching and explaining the benefits of hydroponics farming that substitutes soil with water and produces nutrition-high yield in a shorter time. The Madurai team chose hydroponics as an apt recovery plan because it helps to reduce the supply chain and ensures an equal and sustainable access to goods and services, both for a commercial grower and a home gardener.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hydroponics-for-sustainable-living/article36956623.ece
12 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medical camp at HC Bench||A free medical check-up and training camp was held at Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday, as part of the Bone Health Awareness Fortnight organised by Devadoss Hospital. The camp was inaugurated by Justices G. R. Swaminathan and B. Pugalendhi. Training in first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) techniques were provided to the staff members of the High Court and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-camp-at-hc-bench/article36956624.ece
12 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 128.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,561 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 56.17 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,144 cusecs and a discharge of 1,119 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,929 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36956357.ece
12 October 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||TNJFU announces rank list for 2021-22||The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University on Monday announced the rank list for admission to various undergraduate degree courses offered through its constituent colleges for the 2021-22 academic year. As many as 7,583 applications were received for admissions to 395 seats. The admission process was initiated on September 19 through online mode for entry into Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.) programme (offered in 3 Colleges), Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) programme in four colleges, B.B.A. in Fisheries Enterprises Management programme at Fisheries Business School in Vaniyanchavadi, Chennai; and Vocational degree programmes in four para-professional institutes. Topper Releasing the list on the university website (www.tnjfu.ac.in), Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar said Selvi Shiny Prathap from Tiruvannamalai topped the rank list with 198.00 cut-off mark. C. M. Induja from Ramanathapuram and R. Girijayandhan from Tiruchi were placed at second and third positions respectively. The number of applications received were substantially higher than the previous year. Among the undergraduate degree programmes, B.F.Sc. had the toughest competition; for every seat there were 40 applicants. For other courses, there were 15 applicants for one seat. In-person counselling The Vice-Chancellor said in-person counselling for students applied under special categories (sports quota, children of ex-servicemen, persons with disabilities, fishermen wards and students who had studied in State government schools) would be conducted on October 21 at Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam. This year, general counselling would be conducted through online mode only. First online counselling for general candidates would take place from October 22 to 25. Regular classes for admitted students was likely to commence during the last week of November, Mr. Sukumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnjfu-announces-rank-list-for-2021-22/article36956333.ece
12 October 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||Police have arrested two brothers, M. Ranjith, 26, and M. Pradeep, 24, on the charge of assaulting a woman field worker. The field worker was involved in conducting survey of those who were yet to get vaccinated for COVID-19 at Pudhu Naduvalur village and encouraging them to get inoculated at the mega vaccination camp conducted on Sunday. The two men allegdly abused her and warned her against speaking about the vaccine, an official release said. Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya has warned of legal action against those who prevented staff who were engaged in administering COVID-19 vaccine and those involved in carrying out government duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-assault/article36956342.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||42 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths in U.T.||The Union Territory registered two COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 1,848, even as 42 new cases and 59 recoveries were recorded on Monday. Both the deaths were reported in Karaikal. The cumulative toll by region is Puducherry (1,446), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (45). Puducherry logged 30 new cases, which were detected from 3,022 tests, followed by Karaikal (10) and Mahe (2). No case was reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.39%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.04%. The number of active cases was 639, including 98 in hospitals and 541 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,27,095 cases against 1,24,608 recoveries. Of an estimated 18.45 lakh tests done so far, 15.65 lakh samples have returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,783 people took the COVID-19 vaccine on Monday. The Union Territory has administered 10,53,018 vaccine doses so far.  The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,27,095 cases against 1,24,608 recoveries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-ut/article36956594.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. not against holding local bodies poll: Law Minister||The government is not against holding the local bodies poll but only wanted the election to be held in a fair manner upholding the Municipal, Commune Panchayat Acts and the spirit of the Constitution, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan said here on Monday. “Nobody can work against the establishment of the elected bodies in Municipalities and Panchayats in the Union Territory, especially after the order of the Supreme Court in April. The SC order was to hold the polls in the Union Territory and how could someone work against the order of the court. We only wanted the State Election Commission (SEC) to conduct the poll as per established rules and procedures,” Mr. Lakshminarayanan, who also holds the Law portfolio, told The Hindu.  He was responding to a question about the perception that the government was not keen on holding the poll after its decision to commit to the High Court on October 5 to withdraw a 2019 notification enabling reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes. Asked why the Ministers and legislators belonging to the All India N R Congress and BJP met Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on October 9 urging her to hold the poll only after providing quota for the BC and the ST after taking a different stand in the High Court, the Minister said “the court in its order on October 5 did not ask the SEC to hold the poll without reservation for BC and ST. We informed the court to withdraw 2019 notification so that anomalies in the reservation could be corrected and poll be held in a fair manner.” The Minister said two days after the court order the SEC “unilaterally,” announced the rescheduled dates without holding any consultation. The court wanted the SEC to correct the mistakes and conduct the election, he said. “No proper consultation was held with the government or the political parties. And moreover, the rescheduled dates clashed with several festivities in the Union Territory. The SEC should have factored into consideration everything before announcing the dates,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-not-against-holding-local-bodies-poll-law-minister/article36956586.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Dawn-to-dusk bandh to oppose conduct of poll in U.T. evokes partial response||The dawn-to-dusk bandh called by the Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance (SDPA) of Opposition parties on Monday to oppose the move to hold local bodies election without reservation for Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes evoked a partial response in the Union Territory. The protest passed off peacefully barring stray incidents of attempts by SDPA activists to force shopkeepers to shut down during a rally. Police intervened to detain a group of bandh enforcers and defused the situation. Police had stepped up security to ensure that there was no untoward incident during the protests. In Puducherry, most shops and establishments in the central parts of the town downed shutters while vegetable and fish vendors in the main markets along Grand Bazaar area were open. Private bus operators kept off the roads. State-owned services were in operation. So were autorickshaws and share-autos. Banks remained open. Volunteers of the parties, including the Congress, DMK, VCK and CPI took out a rally and held demonstrations at various places. Addressing a protest meeting on Maraimalai Adigal Salai, Congress leader and former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy flayed the SEC’s ‘unconstitutional and unacceptable’ style of functioning by trying to conduct the civic poll in violation of statutory and constitutional provisions. R. Siva, DMK convenor and Leader of Opposition, said the bandh evoked full participation with virtually all commercial establishments closed on the main roads, such as Anna Salai, Jawaharlal Nehru Road and Mahatma Gandhi Road. The DMK leader called for rectification of anomalies in ward delimitation, adoption of rotational principles in granting reservation, in accordance with the provisions of Puducherry Municipalities and Commune Panchayat Act, 1973, and conduct of local bodies election within a couple of months. Congress leaders, including PCC president A. V. Subramanian and former Minister M. Kandasamy, DMK leaders, including L. Sampath, R. R. Senthil and Anibal Kennedy, MLAs DMK presidum chairman S. P. Sivakumar, participated in a rally. The SDPA had given the bandh call after political parties across the spectrum met Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday seeking deferment of the civic poll until irregularities were rectified and after the monsoon and festival season. Memorandum to L-G Meanwhile, AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan submitted a memorandum to the Lt. Governor on Monday seeking her intervention to stop the poll until several ''irregularities'' were fixed, especially denial of reservation for the BCs and STs in wards/posts in the revised SEC notification. It may be recalled that the State Election Commission, acting on orders passed by the Madras High Court on a petition to remove anomalies, annulled its 2019 notification which reserved seats for BC/ST communities and issued a fresh notification and schedule for the three-phase election on November 2, 7 and 13. Most prominent political parties have objected to the SEC’s lack of consultation and the exclusion of BC/ST communities in reservation of seats and demanded deferring of poll until the principle of social justice was restored to the process of devolution of power to the grassroots. The government and the SEC need to comply with the Supreme Court mandate to complete the local bodies election without any further delay, as the last time the civic poll was held in the Union Territory was in 2006, after a long gap. The Supreme Court, through an order of March 5, 2021, directed the Government of Puducherry and the SEC to complete the delimitation exercise within two months from the date of the order. The election is to be conducted within four months of completing the delimitation exercise, the apex court ruled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dawn-to-dusk-bandh-to-oppose-conduct-of-poll-in-ut-evokes-partial-response/article36956590.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt., SEC and parties should work together to conduct poll: former MP||Former Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) M. Ramadass on Monday urged the government, State Election Commission and political parties to work together for the smooth conduct of the local bodies poll. “We have wasted 10 precious years to discover the reasons for keeping the elections in the back burner forgetting the fact that we have been disregarding the provisions of Article 243 of the Indian Constitution and the saner advice of the High Court and the Supreme Court,” he told The Hindu . Local Bodies in Puducherry have been unique and celebrated institutions since the days of the French and occupied a place of pride in the French Administration. They were so significant that the French government conducted a Referendum in Kizhoor in the presence of local body functionaries and conceded the merger of Puducherry with Indian Union, he also said. “Therefore let us break the flimsy barriers, imagine beyond petty politics and set in motion the democratic decentralisation in Puducherry on a long-term basis. The SEC should seek the permission of the Supreme Court to hold the election within the next three months perfecting all processes of election,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-sec-and-parties-should-work-together-to-conduct-poll-former-mp/article36956587.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC aims at increasing patronage for ‘Shri Ramayana Yatra’||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC) is looking to increase patronage from the Puducherry-Cuddalore-Villupuram regions for its ‘Shri Ramayana Yatra’ Bharat Darshan special tourist train service being operated in November. According to an official release from IRCTC, the service, originating from Madurai, will be operated from November 16 to 28. The package cost of the 13-day tour is Rs. 14,490 per person, including GST. The route of the Ramayana Yatra Special from Madurai via Dindigul is through Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai jn, Chidambaram, Cuddalore Port, Villupuram Jn., Chennai Egmore, Katpadi Jn, Jolarpettai Jn covering Hampi- Nasik - ChitrakutDham -Varanasi - Gaya - Sitamarhi - Janakpur (Nepal) Ayodhya - Nandigram and Prayagraj -Shringaverpur. For reservations and further details, contact Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre in Chennai - 9003140680; Tiruchi - 8287931974 or Madurai - 8287937977 or visit the websitewww.irctc- tourism.com Central/State government employees can avail themselves of LTC for the pilgrimage tours. IRCTC-approved e-ticketing agents can also book the abovementioned tour packages, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-aims-at-increasing-patronage-for-shri-ramayana-yatra/article36956595.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) dissociates itself from bandh called by SDPA||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), a key ally of the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance, on Monday dissociated itself from the bandh call given by SDPA constituents Congress, DMK, CPI and VCK. Tamil Nadu State Committee member of CPI (M) V. Perumal told The Hindu that the party wanted the election to the local bodies conducted at the earliest. But the party was also of the view that the mistakes in the reservation policy must be corrected before the poll. All the other issues could be sorted out after the election, he said. The CPI (M) was also of the opinion that the government was not keen to hold the local bodies election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-dissociates-itself-from-bandh-called-by-sdpa/article36956584.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Village-level cyber committees set up, says IG||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan on Monday said that many online fraud cases were being booked as several affected persons were coming forward to lodge complaints. Police have constituted cyber committees at the village level to create awareness of cyber crimes among the people. Alert messages sent time-to-time from the State and national-level cyber crime units on cyber offences were being made as videos in Tamil by the district cyber crime units and circulated to the cyber committees to create awareness among the people, Mr. Balakrishnan told reporters at Pudukottai. He said there was growing awareness among people of cyber crimes and many were not disclosing personal information as sought by strangers over phone due to which such offences were being curbed. To a query, he said history sheets were being opened against accused involved in POCSO Act cases and their activities were being monitored. Police personnel attached to the Women Help Desk set up in each police station in every district were visiting the hotspots where offences under the POCSO Act had been reported over the past five years and keeping a watch at those places besides instilling confidence among minors. To another query, he said the SP of every district in the central zone would review the functioning of surveillance cameras established at government hospitals and necessary arrangements through the Health Department would be made to set right defects in the gadgets. He said the first clue regarding the kidnap of an infant from the government hospital at Thanjavur recently and the woman involved in the offence came through video footage from surveillance cameras installed at the hospital, which eventually helped investigators in rescuing the child within 30 hours. Earlier, Mr. Balakrishnan inaugurated a creche for children of police personnel at the District Armed Reserve campus in Pudukottai Town in the presence of the Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, Nisha Parthiban and senior police officers. The creche would take care of 25 children below the age of six years when their parents go for work. It was equipped with play materials, books and photos of animals besides having child friendly bathrooms and toilets.  Perambalur Police personnel attached to the District Cyber Crime unit conducted an awareness programme about cyber crimesfor government school students at Kunnam in Perambalur recently . The programme was conducted on the instruction of Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, S. Mani. Awareness was created among students of different types of cyber crimes, ways to curb them through precautionary measures and ways to use social media. They were advised not to get addicted to online games, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-level-cyber-committees-set-up-says-ig/article36956341.ece
12 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand direct purchase centre at Kurumbivayal||A group of farmers of Kurumbivayal in the district staged a road roko for over two hours on Pudukottai - Karambakudi road demanding setting up of a direct purchase centre (DPC) for procurement of paddy at their village. Police sources said around 120 villagers, including women, assembled near the Karambakudi taluk office and came to Pudukottai - Karambakudi road where they staged the agitation. Police personnel were deployed at the spot and revenue officials held talks with the agitators. The sources said even as the agitation was under way, three persons attempted to end their lives. However, the police thwarted the attempts. Meanwhile, a meeting was convened by Revenue Divisional Officer, Pudukottai, V.T.S.L.P. Abinaya at the Karambakudi taluk office with a section of agitators lasting over two hours. Official sources said an assurance was given to the farmers that the procurement of paddy would commence from Tuesday at Kurumbivayal following which the agitators dispersed. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-direct-purchase-centre-at-kurumbivayal/article36956338.ece
12 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate arrangements in Salem||Elaborate arrangements have been made at 12 places in the district to ensure peaceful counting of votes on Tuesday for the recently held rural local body casual elections. Over 100 personnel would be involved in the counting of votes. The elections were conducted to 24 positions. The counting centre for ward member in district panchayat elections has been set up at the Government Engineering College in Karuppur. The counting to Panamarathupatti Union member would be held at Panamarathupatti panchayat union office. According to election officials, only one agent would be allowed per table and COVID-19 safety protocols would be followed at the counting centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elaborate-arrangements-in-salem/article36956375.ece
12 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||46 children receive COVID-19 assistance||A total of 46 children in the district, who have lost their parents to COVID-19, received welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.38 crore here on Monday. District Collector S. Karmegham distributed the cheques to the guardians. The Collector promised all assistance to the children and advised guardians to approach Undrukol , a facility set up by the district administration to assist children who lost their parents to COVID-19 disease. According to officials here, till date, the district administration has distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 5.45 crore to 167 children who lost one of their parents or both to COVID-19 disease. The State government had announced assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to children who lost both their parents to COVID-19 disease, Rs. 3 lakh to children who lost one of their parents and monthly assistance of Rs. 3,000 upto 18 years of age for children growing under the care of guardians here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/46-children-receive-covid-19-assistance/article36956376.ece
12 October 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 petitions received at grievances redress meet||After more than five years, people turned up in good numbers at the district Collectorate to submit petitions at the weekly grievances redress meet on Monday. Over 100 petitions were received by the civic body on the first such meeting. Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, Assistant Collector (Training) M.T. Shabeer Alam, City Health Officer N. Yoganand, Assistant Commissioners, engineers and other senior officials received the petitions from the public. The Commissioner directed respective officials to take necessary action on the petitions. He said that action taken on petitions received this week would be reviewed before the grievance redress meet next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-petitions-received-at-grievances-redress-meet/article36956380.ece
12 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead at home||A 30-year-old man was found dead with head injuries at his residence near Sankari during the early hours of Monday. According to police, the deceased was identified as Dhayanandhan, a financier. Dhayanandhan lived with his wife Annapriya and a two-year-old son. Thevoor police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-at-home/article36956378.ece
12 October 2021||SRIVILLIPUTTUR,TAMIL NADU||Two escapee accused nabbed||Two persons who escaped from police on Saturday were nabbed on Monday. Koomapatti police in Virudhunagar district arrested Muthukumar, 24, and Arunkumar, 20, of Ambedkar Street, Ramasamyapuram on Saturday. After producing them in a court, the police were escorting them to Arupukottai to remand them in custody in the sub-jail. When they were having food in a wayside restaurant at Krishnankoil, the two escaped. The police immediately alerted all check-posts on district borders. A search was launched for the two, who were finally nabbed at Koomapatti and Srivilliputtur. They were produced before a court and taken for remand. On Saturday, a police team, which was checking vehicles, asked them to stop, but the motorcycle-borne duo sped away. The police chased and secured them. The police had secured a two-wheeler and an ‘aruval’ from them. Both of them had criminal cases in a few police stations in Virudhunagar district, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-escapee-accused-nabbed/article36956359.ece
12 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of two boys retrieved from lake in Thanjavur district||The bodies of Sivasakthivel, 14, and Kamalesh, 11, of Musiri hamlet near Madukkur were retrieved from a lake in the village on Monday. According to police, the victims ventured out of their homes on Sunday evening. Their family members, who were initially under the impression that the two might have gone out to play with their friends, panicked when they did not return even after 8 p.m. and searched in vain. On Monday morning, some villagers spotted Sivasakthivel’s body in the lake and informed police and his parents. Fire and rescue services personnel retrieved the body of Kamalesh in the afternoon. Madukkur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-two-boys-retrieved-from-lake-in-thanjavur-district/article36956344.ece
12 October 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage demonstration||Staging a demonstration in front of Theni Collectorate on Monday, a large number of farmers from Cumbum, Uthamapalayam, Bodinayakkanur and other parts demanded the government to drop the Rs. 1,296-crore integrated drinking water project to supply water to Madurai city from Mullaperiyar river through pipelines. The erstwhile AIADMK government had initiated the project. Though initial permission was given for the mega work by the then government, the work could not commence due to the elections. On Saturday, Madurai Corporation officials held a public hearing. But the farmers opposed the project and suggested water could be drawn through the river as it might help recharge wells en route. Though the officials explained the project would not affect agriculture in Theni district and pointed at the necessity to draw water for Madurai Corporation limits in view of the rise in population, the farmers did not relent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-farmers-stage-demonstration/article36956360.ece
12 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Reopen Sterlite plant: fisherwomen||Demanding the reopening of Sterlite Copper, fisherwomen from different coastal hamlets submitted petitions to Collector K. Senthil Raj on Monday. Even as residents from various villages of Thoothukudi are submitting petitions on Mondays seeking the early reopening of Sterlite Copper’s manufacturing unit in the SIPCOT Industrial Complex that remains closed since May 2018 following the killing of 13 persons during the anti-Sterlite protests, fisherwomen from Fatima Nagar, Inigo Nagar, Lourdhammalpuram, Terespuram, Lions Town and Alangarathittu submitted separate petitions on Monday pressing for the same demand. They said the educated youth of Thoothukudi, who were getting employment in Sterlite Copper, had to travel to far-off places in search of employment after the copper manufacturing unit was closed down. But they were not getting the right employment with right salaries. Since most of the educated youth of Thoothukudi were now underemployed, the Tamil Nadu government should order immediate reopening of Sterlite Copper, the fisherwomen said. A group of residents of Pandarampatti submitted a petition with the similar prayer. They said over 300 youth from their village who were employed with Sterlite Copper had been rendered jobless for the past three and a half years. Even as these families were facing a bleak future, the villages that received Sterlite Copper-funded welfare and development schemes were denied of those programmes. Hence, the government should order the reopening of the plant, they said. Water supply A group of villagers from Sundararajapuram near Nalumavadi near Kurumbur in the district submitted a petition to the Collector seeking better drinking water supply by replacing damaged pipelines and repairing hand pumps in their village. ‘Shift oil refinery’ Members of Thoothukudi district consumers and public welfare association submitted a petition, saying that a private oil refinery was to be established in Allikulam, Ramasamypuram, Keezha Thattapparai, Mela Thattapparai, Umarikkottai, Peroorani and Therkku Silukkanpatti areas by encroaching upon the wild streams. Consequently, rainwater would enter Thoothukudi and hence the oil refinery should be shifted to some other place, the petition said. Illicit sand mining Seeking action against the illicit sand miners lifting sand from Sri Parangusanallur village near Srivaikundam, Pachaiperumal of Eral submitted a petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-plant-fisherwomen/article36956331.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||Kulasekarapattinam police have arrested a 70-year-old man for allegedly murdering his wife. The police said Sudalai, 70, of Kulasekarapttinam, a shepherd, picked a heated argument with his wife Muthammal, 65, on Sunday night after Rs. 500 he had kept in the house was missing. When Muthammal denied taking the money, he hacked her to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article36956358.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation plans to outsource maintenance of public parks||With the move to engage residents’ welfare associations in running and maintenance of public parks failing to evoke good response, Tiruchi Corporation has decided to outsource caretakers and gardeners for them. Until 2017, the city had a limited number of parks. Ibrahim Park on West Boulevard Road, Gandhi Park in Srirangam, Parangiri Velupillai Park in Cantonment were among the few that served the people, particularly elders and children. The city began to get its share of parks after Tiruchi was included in the Smart Cities Mission. Several parks were established between 201 and 2019 by tapping the financial resources under Smart Cities Mission. The Atal Mission for Urban Rehabilitation and Transformation (AMRUIT) also came in handy for setting up parks wherever required. The sites, where were susceptible to encroachments by influential persons, were mainly used to set up the public parks. Besides walking paths and positioning benches, many facilities were established. Some of the bigger recreational parks were provided with amphi-theaters and landscapes for screening documentaries and conducting stage shows. According to data available with Tiruchi Corporation, the number of public parks has gone up to 136 from 24 in 2017. Except for a few, most of them have been declared open to the public. But the irony is that the pandemic caused by the rapid spread of COVID-19 forced the authorities to keep the parks closed for many months in 2020 and 2021. There was criticism that except for the parks in prominent places, others situated in interior parts of the city were kept out of bounds from the public mainly due to the absence of plans to maintain them. It was alleged that the civic body, which spent a huge amount money on building the infrastructure, had failed to allot funds for maintaining the parks and to appoint caretakers. The civic body then unveiled a plan to involve residents’ welfare associations or prominent business or industrial houses to operate and maintain the parks. But it is learnt that the response has been lukewarm. Issues such as footing the expenditure such as salary for caretakers, gardeners and watchmen prevented the associations from responding positively to the call of the Corporation. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that almost all parks were open to the public both in the evenings and mornings. Further, it had been decided not to wait for a response from the public bodies to operate and maintain the parks. “It has been decided to appoint caretakers and gardeners to all parks through outsourcing. A tender has been called from the interested agencies to employ caretakers and gardeners. The issue will be resolved very soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-plans-to-outsource-maintenance-of-public-parks/article36956346.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary project envisages 130 study circles in eight districts||Rotary International District 3000 has planned to establish about 130 study circles in eight revenue districts under its fold to train and empower youth, especially rural students, to appear in competitive examinations. The study circles are planned to be established in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai and Theni districts, I. Jerald, District Governor-Elect for 2022-23, Rotary District 3000, told The Hindu . Infrastructure Each Rotary Club in the RI district will be tasked with identifying the villages and suitable land and construction of about 400 sq ft buildings to house the study circles with facilities to conduct in-person and virtual coaching classes. Each circle will target to benefit about 50 students a year. The centres will seek to train youth and children to appear for competitive examinations at the State and national levels such as JEE and NEET for higher studies and SSA, RRB, TNPSC, UPSC and banking recruitment exams for employment. Coaching and motivational sessions, both in-person and virtual modes, have been planned. The Rotary office-bearers here have roped in a team of experts such as former Deputy Director of Employment and Training P. Suresh Kumar in designing the course content. Expert committees District-level committees comprising experts to guide and conduct the programme regularly for five years will be constituted. “Even though the students of the State are capable of competing in such examinations, lack of information and training prevent them from excelling. Apart from civil service exams, there are 568 other tests for recruitment of about two lakh government jobs every year across the country,” said Mr. Jerald. The study circles are to function in exclusive buildings. “We have identified the villages and sites in some places. We are looking for donors/sponsors to support the project as each study circle will require an investment of about Rs. 12 lakh,” Mr. Jerald said. Caretakers, possibly a person utilising the facility, will be appointed for each circle. The project is planned to be launched by July next. “But before that we are planning to soft launch a few centres on trial basis,” Mr. Jerald said. The roots of the initiative can be traced to the study circles formed in the Tiruchi District Employment Office and some other places some years ago. “The study circles produced many successful candidates in UPSC and other competitive examinations over the years and we are roping in alumni to conduct the programme,” Mr. Suresh Kumar said. The Rotary project will seek to empower youth through capacity building and equip them to appear for competitive examinations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-project-envisages-130-study-circles-in-eight-districts/article36956347.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||17 injured as van overturns near Tiruchi||Seventeen occupants, including driver, of a van were injured when the vehicle overturned after brushing against a State Transport Corporation bus and getting hit by a freight carrier from the rear on Tiruchi-Karur national highway at Mukkombu near here on Monday. Around 20 people were travelling in the van from Edamalaipattipudur in Tiruchi to a temple at Thanthonrimalai in Karur district when the incident occurred in the morning. The van driver, Alex Prabhu, overtook a freight carrier, when his vehicle brushed against a Tiruchi-bound State Transport Corporation bus coming in the opposite direction. The freight carrier too rammed the van from behind and it overturned, police sources said. Vehicles damaged  The State Transport Corporation bus and the freight carrier also lost control and veered towards the road side before coming to a halt. The bus and the van were damaged in the collision. The injured occupants of the van were later shifted to a private hospital in Tiruchi from the government hospital. The van driver was admitted to the government hospital here. The sources said the van driver had been named as the accused. Jeeyapuram Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-injured-as-van-overturns-near-tiruchi/article36956350.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Coir Board Chairman visits BDU||Chairman of National Coir Board D. Kuppuramu on Monday held discussions with Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University M. Selvam on treatment of tannery waste using coir pith and converting it into organic manure with effective microorganisms. P. Malliga, Head of Department of Marine Biotechnology, BDU, described to the visiting dignitary the process of organic manure production at the National Facility for Marine Cyanobacteria. G. Poopalan, Development Officer, Coir Board, Pollachi, and other industry representatives accompanied the NCB Chairman. A training programme on the production process was conducted at the Model Organic Farm on the campus, Ms. Malliga said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coir-board-chairman-visits-bdu/article36956332.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||222 new cases in delta region||The central districts on Monday reported 222 fresh cases of COVID-19 and five deaths. Thanjavur continued to figure at the top of the list in central districts. As per the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 60 patients tested positive for the virus in the district on Monday followed by Tiruchi with 49 cases. Tiruvarur reported 43 cases. The day’s count was 15 in Pudukkotai and two in Perambalur, 25 in Nagapattinam and 11 in Mayiladuthurai. Karur and Ariyalur recorded 14 and 7 cases respectively. Tiruchi, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambulur and Tiruvarur recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/222-new-cases-in-central-districts/article36956336.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNAU contact programme inaugurated||The personal contact programme for Diploma in Agricultural Inputs offered by the Directorate of Open and Distance Learning of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University got under way at Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute here on Saturday. N. Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, officially inaugurated the programme through virtual mode from TNAU, Coimbatore. P. Masilamani, Dean of Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, inaugurated the programme locally. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kumar stressed the need for proper diagnosis of the causes of crop diseases — whether it was due to pest attack or any other factors — and recommend appropriate dose of pesticides. Thirty students from six districts participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contact-programme-inaugurated/article36956339.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air passenger held, gold seized||Officers of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit seized 435 grams of rectangular gold plates smuggled by a passenger at the international airport here on Sunday. The male passenger, who landed here from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight, was intercepted by the Customs officers at the exit gate based on intelligence. While conducting a search of his luggage, the officers recovered 60 rectangular gold plates, all of 24 karat purity, concealed in an electric insect killer and induction stove and seized them. The total value of the seized gold was put at Rs. 20.83 lakh. The passenger was arrested under the Customs Act, 1962. Further investigation was in progress, a press release from the Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-passenger-held-gold-seized/article36956343.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements in place for counting of votes||All arrangements are in place for the smooth counting of votes polled in the election held in two phases on October 6 and 9 for village panchayat ward member, village panchayat president, panchayat union councillor and district panchayat councillor posts in rural local bodies of the district. Since the counting of votes polled in the nine panchayat unions are being counted on Tuesday in as many counting centres where three-tier security arrangements had been made since 8 a.m., each counting centre will be monitored by six observers even as the counting goes on. The counting centres are TVS Higher Secondary School, Thirukkurungudi (for Kalakkad union), S.A. Raja Arts College, Vadakkankulam (for Valliyoor union), TDMNS College, S. Kallikulam (for Radhapuram union), RECT Polytechnic, Vijayanarayanam (for Nanguneri union), Merit Polytechnic College, Idaikal (for Pappakudi union), Periyar Government Higher Secondary School, Cheranmahadevi (Cheranmahadevi union) Amali Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Vickramasingapuram (for Ambasamudram union), Rani Anna Government Women’s College (for Manur union) and Rose Mary Women’s College of Arts and Science, Ponnakudi (for Palayamkottai union) where counting of votes will be taken up in the halls fitted with CCTV cameras and the entire process will be videographed. A total of 2,917 employees – 244 employees for Ambasamudram union, 153 employees for Cheranmahadevi, 179 employees for Kalakkadu, 526 employees for Manur, 381 employees for Nanguneri, 335 employees for Palayamkottai, 260 employees for Pappakudi, 415 employees for Radhapuram and 424 employees for Valliyoor union – would be deployed. “They would cover 675 counting tables,” Collector V. Vishnu said. COVID-19 safety protocols have been ensured in all the counting centres where the employees to be deployed should have taken at least one dose of vaccine. Sufficient number of reserve staff has been kept ready for replacing COVID-19 symptomatic polling personnel. The representatives of candidates, who should have been vaccinated, will be allowed inside the counting centre only after body temperature is measures with thermal scanners. In Tenkasi district, the votes polled in the rural civic polls will be counted at CSI Jayaraj Annapackiyam Arts College, Nallur (for Alangulam union), St. Joseph’s College of Arts and Science, Mettur (Kadayam union), Sriram Nallamani Yadhava College, Kodikurichi (Kadayanallur union), Sardar Raja Engineering College (Keezhapavoor union), Unnamalai College of Arts and Science, Ayyaneri (Kuruvikulam union), Vivekananda Silver Jubilee Higher Secondary School, Veerasigamani (Melaneelithanallur union), SVC Veerasamy Chettiyar Engineering College, Puliyangudi (Sankarankovil union), SMSS Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School, Shencottai (Shencottai union), Sri Parasakthi Women’s College, Courtallam (Tenkasi union) and Vyasa Women’s Arts and Science College, Subramaniyapuram (Vasudevanallur union). A total of 3,876 employees – 579 for Alangulam union, 437 for Kadayam union, 344 for Kadayanallur union, 557 for Keezhapavoor union, 460 for Kuruvikulam union, 328 for Melaneelithanallur union, 454 for Sankarnakovil union, 127 for Shencottai union, 264 for Tenkasi union and 326 for Vasudevanallur union – will be deployed in these counting centres on Tuesday for counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article36956612.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth’s body exhumed||The body of a youth, who went missing from his village, Sivagamipuram near Pavoorchathram in Tenkasi district, was exhumed near Palayamkottai on Monday evening. Police said M. Jegadeesh, 23, of Sivagamipuram, went missing on October 5 and Pavoorchathram police were investigating the case based on a complaint filed by his father Murugesan. During investigation, the police found that Jegadeesh was in touch with a person from Thoothukudi district, who used to visit his sister’s house in Sivagamipuram. The friends used to consume liquor whenever they met in Sivagamipuram. When Jegadeesh and a few others, including the person from Thoothukudi, consumed liquor recently at Sivagamipuram, an altercation broke out among them. After a scuffle, they left the spot. Against this backdrop, the person from Thoothukudi and his friends came to Sivagamipuram on October 5 and invited Jegadeesh for a party where liquor was served. Even as Jegadeesh was under the influence of alcohol, they took him in their car and murdered him. They buried the body near Tuckerammalpuram on Palayamkottai outskirts. After investigation, the police picked up four persons for inquiry. In the presence of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) and Palayamkottai Tahsildar Avudaiyappan, the body of Jegadeesh was exhumed on Monday evening and sent for a post-mortem. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murdered-youths-body-exhumed/article36956352.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||NTK man held for remarks against CM||YouTuber ‘Saattai’ Duraimurugan, also a functionary of Naam Thamizhar Katchi, has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody till October 25 on various charges, including his remarks against the Chief Minister and the government during a demonstration organised by the party in Thuckalay, Kanniyakumari district, recently. The demonstration was held to oppose the mining of sand and stones in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts and transporting of minerals to Kerala. An FIR said the cadre incited violence. Mr. Duraimurugan has been lodged in the Nanguneri sub-jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-man-held-for-remarks-against-cm/article36956218.ece
12 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 94.40 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,237 cusecs and a discharge of 204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 65.75 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 98 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36956614.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||RDO completes probe into alleged denial of treatment to woman at Udumalpet GH||The Revenue Divisional Officer, Udumalpet, on Monday submitted a report to the District Collector on the inquiry conducted into the allegation that a woman was denied treatment for intrauterine foetal death at the Government Hospital in Udumalpet. Maruthamuthu, a resident of Karathozhuvu in Madathukulam taluk, had alleged that his wife Rajeswari was getting prenatal consultations at Kaniyur Primary Health Centre. On September 23, the woman developed stomach pain and was taken to Udumalpet GH. There it was found that the foetus had died. However, no steps were taken to remove the foetus for four days at the GH. The man alleged that a woman doctor ignored his wife. He then took her to a private hospital where the same doctor, who worked as a consultant there, carried out the procedure for which he had to pay Rs. 37,000. Udumalpet RDO C. Geetha submitted the inquiry report to Collector S. Vineeth on Monday evening. Mr. Vineeth, who initiated the inquiry, told The Hindu that the report would be forwarded to the Directorate of Medical Education for further action. “It is for the Directorate to take further action based on the findings of the report,” he said. Mr. Vineeth said that the inquiry was ordered after seeing Mr. Maruthamuthu’s allegations on social media. The man also filed a complaint with T.K. Bhagyalakshmi, Joint Director of Health Services, Tiruppur, among others. Dr. Bhagyalakshmi said that it was a case of intrauterine foetal demise and the woman was about to enter into the sixth month of her pregnancy. The foetal demise was confirmed at the Kaniyur PHC itself and the family brought the woman to Udumalpet GH without a referral, she said. Dr. Bhagyalakshmi added that the woman doctor was ‘diverted’ from Udumalpet GH to the Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care at Dharapuram GH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rdo-completes-probe-into-alleged-denial-of-treatment-to-woman-at-udumalpet-gh/article36956261.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in open well||A 42-year-old man and his 37-year-old sister drowned in an open well at Palladam near Tiruppur on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as Sundaram and Sakunthala, residents of Devarayampalayam at Ichipatti near Palladam. According to the police, Sakunthala accidentally fell into an open well in the locality on Sunday. Sundaram, who was with Sakunthala, jumped into the well to rescue her. However, both drowned. The body of Sakunthala was taken out by the Fire and Rescue Services, Palladam, late on Sunday. Sundaram’s body was recovered on Monday. Fire fighters had a tough task in retrieving the bodies as the well had several snakes including poisonous ones. They were captured and released into a forest on Monday. The Mangalam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-drown-in-open-well-at-palladam/article36956273.ece
12 October 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Pat for Centre, State||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has thanked the Central and State governments for releasing their share of crop insurance premium for the last rabi season. In a statement issued on Sunday, association general secretary P.R. Pandian said the unexpected showers during December last and January this year caused intensive damage to the standing rabi crop — Samba — which was insured by delta farmers. Subsequently, the State government announced and disbursed Rs. 15,000 per hectare as `agriculture input compensation’ from the Disaster Management Fund to save farmers who lost their crop due to heavy rain and inundation during the period. Later, agriculture insurance companies refrained from releasing compensation to farmers who had insured their crop cultivated during the 2020-21 rabi season citing delay in remittance of the premium amount by the Central and State governments. As the compensation, which ought to have been released by June, was not released by the insurance companies till September 15, the association organised demonstrations in delta districts and, as a fallout, the governments released their respective share, Mr. Pandian said. Since the outstanding insurance premium had been paid by the Central and State governments, the association general secretary said the insurance companies would be releasing the compensation soon into the bank accounts of the farmers. Meanwhile, Papanasam MLA M.H. Jawahirullah urged the State government to fix affordable hiring charges for harvesting machines. Pointing out that the farmers raised the kuruvai crop braving difficulties such as steep hike in agriculture inputs followed by unexpected rain, he said the hire charges for tyre type vehicles had been hiked to more than Rs. 2,000 from Rs. 1,300 per hour and the belt type vehicles from the earlier Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 1,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pat-for-centre-state/article36956334.ece
12 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Move to turn factory into IT park draws flak||A proposal to convert the defunct Hindustan Photo Films (HPF) factory in Udhagamandalam — home to a multitude of wildlife since its closure a few years back — into an IT Park is causing concern among local residents and conservationists. They are worried that one of the last remaining green spaces within Udhagamandalam town could be lost once again to development policies. Recently, Forest Minister K. Ramachandran said the government was looking to create jobs and was trying to identify land where IT parks could be set up. Mr. Ramachandran said the HPF factory premises was one such possible location. It is spread across 300 acres of land, in three blocks. When reporters pointed out that the factory was now home to a variety of wildlife, including leopards, sloth bears, Sambar deer, barking deer, Indian gaur and dhole, and any change to the current area would cause disturbance to the habitats of these key species, Mr. Ramachandran brushed off the concerns. He said more than 3,000 people used to work at the factory when it was functional, and ended the press conference. However, conservationists and local residents who have been working to ensure the protection of green spaces in urbanising hill towns in the district have called for the plan to be scrapped. N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust, said he was against the move. “There is a waterbody inside the HPF factory, and since its closure, wildlife has gradually moved back in and are using the space. It will be a huge setback if the factory becomes operational again,” he said. The conservationist and former honorary wildlife warden from the Nilgiris also called for the forests, currently managed by local municipalities, to be handed back to the Forest Department. “The HPF factory was constructed on land leased from the Forest Department. The land should be handed back to the Department, along with municipal forests, so that they can be better managed,” he said. N. Mohanraj, another conservationist, said he did not believe that an IT park, if operated with a few hundred people, would leave a significant footprint that will affect the environment. “However, they should not expand the current operational area by constructing more buildings,” he said. However, Shobana Chandrashekar, a resident of the district, who has led community efforts to help clean residential areas and protect green spaces in Udhagamandalam town, said she was disappointed that the Forest Minister, in charge of protecting forests, was announcing plans to develop land and bring in jobs that will impact the local wildlife. “Much of the greenery around Ooty town has already been lost to development,” she said. “Citizens’ groups had earlier approached the government, urging it to use the existing HPF factory infrastructure for the construction of the new government college and hospital, but they were turned down,” she said.. Over 2,000 trees in a reserve forest were cut down to make way for the new buildings for the hospital, and if plans to develop the HPF factory come to fruition, there are concerns that the entire area will be lost or unalterably diminished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-turn-factory-into-it-park-draws-flak/article36956215.ece
12 October 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Adivasi communities reap benefit of co-operative producer company||Adivasi shareholders in the Aadhimalai Pazhangudiyinar Producer Company Limited, which was recently awarded the Equator Prize 2021 by the UNDP, now get better prices for their value-added produce due to the company. Registered in 2013 as a producer company, the produce of Adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, including honey, beeswax, shikakai , amla, soapnuts, coffee, pepper, silk cotton and millets are sold by Aadhimalai. “Through our livelihood projects in Keystone Foundation, value addition was made to much of the produce. Aadhimalai was started to ensure that local communities get better prices for their produce through collective bargaining,” said Snehlata Nath, founder-director of Keystone Foundation. The Keystone Foundation now assists Aadhimalai Pazhangudiyinar Producer Company Limited in an advisory and capacity-building role. With over 1,600 shareholders, managed by a seven-member board of Adivasis and a non-Adivasi CEO, the company has been structured to ensure that profits from the produce is shared equitably and fairly. Aadhimalai also trains women from local communities. “Aadhimalai aims at providing a sustainable livelihood support and income generation through fair trade practices to the community while preserving their traditional way of life and conserving the environment,” a statement from Aadhimalai said. Meanwhile, out of 1,609 of the organisation’s total members, 775 shareholders are women, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adivasi-communities-reap-benefit-of-co-operative-producer-company/article36956263.ece
12 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 22 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,557 with 22 new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 48,234 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 197. The death toll is 1,126. In Ranipet district, 12 fresh cases were detected, taking the total number of cases to 43,218.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-22-new-cases/article36956591.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 128 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 128 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 1,605 active cases on Monday while 154 persons recovered. Four more persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 and the toll increased to 2,364. According to the Health Department, the test positivity rate (TPR) of the district stood at 1.3 % on Sunday. A total of 87 persons tested positive in Tiruppur. The district had 815 active cases on Monday and 92 persons recovered. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 2 % on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 34 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 33,141. The toll in the district stood at 205 on Monday while 395 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-128-new-covid-19-cases/article36956274.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jharkhand man gunned down in ‘encounter’||According to the police, Murthaza and Akthar were suspected to have been involved in at least three cases of chain snatching in Sriperumbudur. Around 7 a.m. on Sunday, R Indrani, 55, of Pennalur village, was waiting at a bus stand near her house when the two men attempted to snatch her gold chain. Despite her resistance, the duo snatched her chain, weighing 4.5 sovereigns, and fled. Ms Indrani called up her son, who was at home, for assistance. Immediately, he and other villagers began searching the adjacent areas of the village, which is surrounded by a lake and dense bush. They managed to trace Murthaza, who allegedly opened fire in the air with a country-made gun and escaped. Upon receiving a complaint, over 200 police personnel surrounded the area from Sunday afternoon and used drones for a combing operation. DIG Sathiya Priya and SP M. Sudhakar oversaw the operation. “Right after the incident, we conducted a thorough combing operation in the area. At night, too, we tried our level best to cordon off the entire area, up to a 10 km radius. On Monday morning, we secured Akthar, and Murthaza was found to be in touch with him. A team entered the adjoining area of a lake when Murthaza attacked one of our head constables with a knife. When he tried to attack again, an inspector opened fire on him in retaliation,” Ms. Sathiya Priya told The Hindu.  The police reported the encounter death on Monday afternoon. Further investigation is on to ascertain what the two were doing in Chennai. The police also suspect they stabbed a Tasmac staff member and injured another person last week. Inspector General of Police, North Zone, Santhosh Kumar, visited the area and met the injured police personnel at Government General Hospital, Sriperumbudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jharkhand-man-gunned-down-in-encounter/article36956228.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Young achievers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-achievers/article36956226.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP surrenders in murder case||Govindarasu was allegedly assaulted on the premises and later taken to the Kadampuliyur police station for lodging a complaint  The Station House Officer noticed bleeding injuries on Govindarasu’s face and asked the complainants, Kandavelu and Shanmugam, to take him to the hospital for treatment. However, the duo reportedly took the victim back to the cashew processing unit. Govindarasu was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. The CB-CID police is likely to take Mr. Ramesh into custody for interrogation. In a statement issued before his surrender, Mr. Ramesh said he was pained over parties indulging in “politics of vendetta” over the incident. “ As a sincere functionary of the DMK and having great regard for my leader, I am surrendering before the court. This was only to prevent unnecessary aspersions being cast on the party. I will legally prove with evidence that the complaint against me is baseless...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-surrenders-in-murder-case/article36956227.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - DGL||The illuminated coach indicators installed on the platforms at Ramanathapuram railway station are not functioning, leading to confusion among passengers in finding the right coach position before trains arrive. I appeal to the Southern Railway to set right the coach indicators with sufficient lighting. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.   Kodaikanal received its average annual rainfall of 80 inches by September-end, even before the onset of northeast monsoon. But ironically, a copious rain notwithstanding, people in the town are supplied drinking water through tankers. It only shows the scant regard the residents and visitors have for this fast-depleting natural resource. Authorities must take remedial measures to prevent a disaster. G.S. Mani, Kodaikanal.    Passenger train services between Madurai and Rameswaram have resumed. But the fare from Paramakudi to Madurai, which used to be Rs. 20, has been raised to Rs. 45, which is arbitrary. Small-scale traders have been badly affected. I appeal to authorities to revert to the old fare structure. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.    Recently, the Highways Department laid a two-km-long two-way road in Tiruppachethi. But earth work has not been done properly near the police station owing to which it lies half a foot below the road surface. So I request highways authorities to set this right. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article36956353.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail-City||I work in the hospitality industry in Courtallam in Tenkasi district. The government has not given permission to bath in the waterfalls here while it is allowed in Hogenakkal, Kovai Kutralam, Thirparapppu, Monkey falls, and all hill stations are also open to tourists. Thousands of workers in restaurants, resorts and autorickshaw drivers have lost their livelihood and are at the mercy of the government’s decision. Hope the government takes a timely decision to help those depending on tourism in Courtallam. Vishnuvardhan, Anna Nagar   Thousands of people work in SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur on the four-lane highway. A spinning mill and a school besides a few car showrooms are also located here. Because of the continuous traffic movement on Madurai- Tirumangalam stretch, people are unable to cross the road at SIDCO/Kappalur Colony junction and Koothiyarkundu. So I request the authorities to either erect automatic traffic signals in these places or depute traffic personnel during peak hours. D. Ganesh, Tirunagar   Passenger train services between Madurai and Rameswaram have resumed. But the fare from Paramakudi to Madurai, which used to be Rs. 20, has been raised to Rs. 45 now, which is arbitrary. Small-scale traders have been badly affected by the increase. I appeal to the railway authorities to revert to the old fare structure. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-city/article36956617.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail -TVL||I work in the hospitality industry in Courtallam. The government has not given permission to bath in the waterfalls here while it is allowed in Hogenakkal, Kovai Kutralam, Thirparapppu, Monkey falls, and all hill stations are also open to tourists. Thousands of workers in restaurants, resorts, eateries and autorickshaw drivers have lost their livelihood and are at the mercy of the government’s decision. The Government should take a decision to help those depending on tourism in Courtallam. Vishnuvardhan, Madurai.   A trench was dug across the highway near Thuckalay Government Hospital several months ago for laying a water line and the cut portion has not been restored. Besides hindering traffic, a big noise is generated every time a heavy vehicle passes through it disturbing the neighbourhood, particularly patients in the hospital. The road portion is filled up with sand frequently causing dust pollution. I request authorities to take immediate remedial action. Hajamydeen, Thuckalay.   Apropos the report on an altercation between two groups while proceeding to Thalayanai on a road under the control of KMTR forest personnel, I wish to state that after Kalakkad, the road leading to the bathing area is narrow and drivers need to go slowly to prevent collision. So there must be signposts stating ‘Go slow, animals crossing; speed limit 20 km,’ etc. Police must book violators. Visitors’ vehicles must be checked for alcohol and tobacco. A.M.N. Pandian,  Tirunelveli.   While panchayats were upgraded to municipalities in Tirunelveli district, Valliyur was left out. Valliyur, a trading centre, has good road and rail connectivity and houses courts, police office and educational institutions. So the government may upgrade the civic body status of Valliyur so that it will ensure progress of neighbouring Panagudi, ISRO site, Kavalkinaru, Vadakkankulam and Radhapuram. Murugesan, Radhapuram.   Passenger trains between Tiruchendur and Tirunelveli must be resumed soon. Formerly, there were five passenger train services in this route. Now that colleges have been reopened, it will be of benefit to students. Rajakumar Arulanandham, Palayamkottai.   Apropos the report, ‘An eye for an eye in southern Tamil Nadu,’ as the retired DSP pointed out, ‘Revenge murders rarely cease.’ Community bias starts in educational institutions. Recently there was a ‘caste clash’ at a school in Palayamkottai. Even Tirunelveli Medical College is not exempt from this social evil. Our education system is at fault as communal harmony is not stressed enough. R. Donjeba, Nazareth.   It is welcome that there are so many boards erected on roads to show the direction and distance of nearby towns from Tirunelveli. But the age-old ‘No horn’ and speed limit signage near hospitals and schools are missing. P. Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-tvl/article36956610.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: International Conference on FoodXplore ’21-Global Trends in Food Processing and Food Safety, 9.30 a.m  Jansons Institute of Technology: Android App Development Competition, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Awareness programme on HIV/AIDS, 2 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Art sand Science for Women: Session on B2B digital marketing trends, 10 a.m.  Karpagam Nursing College: Lamp lighting ceremony, 2.30 p.m.  Dr. RV Arts and Science College: Literary Competitions, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article36956269.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Periyar University : Innovative business expo, Department of Management Studies, Food Court, 9.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article36956377.ece
12 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Declining COVID-19 cases in Belagavi||The number of active COVID-19 cases fell to 94 in Belagavi district on Monday. This is the first time in nearly two years that the figure is so low, say officers. The district administration released a note on Monday saying that there were only 94 active cases in the district. There were three positive cases but no deaths due to the pandemic. The number of tests was 3,660. The government has screened 14,07, 845 persons till now and collected 14,06,763 samples. Of these, 79,820 turned out to be positive. This means that for every 100 samples, 94 persons tested negative. As many as 936 patients died and 78,791 have recovered. The government-approved laboratories are yet to analyse 411 samples. The trend was similar on Sunday when the number of positive cases was five, with one death. As per the government, the positivity rate for the last seven days was 0.18%. Vaccination, however, remains low and unstable. As many as 29,318 doses were administered on Monday, but only 7,252 doses were given on Sunday. Vaccination figures have been varying throughout this month. On October 1, there were 19,867 doses and that reduced to 14,293 on October 2. There was a sudden drop to 692 doses on October 3 but it increased to 15,768 on October 4. There was a five-fold increase on October 5, that saw 80,136 doses being administered. On October 6, there was again a trough of 669 cases that rose to 10,721 on the October 7. As many as 75,480 doses were given on October 8 and 10,689 the next day. The daily average for the fortnight is 23,398 doses. The distribution of doses is also a matter of concern. Officials have been able to vaccinate over 41.44 lakh people, which is around 76% of the population. But they include 30 lakh first doses and 11 lakh second doses, which account for 55% and 21% of the population. Another serious issue seems to be haunting officers. Some persons who had received their first dose were getting false messages that they have been given their second dose also. At least three persons said they have sent complaints about this to the government. A senior citizen from Shahapur complained that he has received such as message, without actually getting a dose. Venkatesh Patil, a retired bank officer, said that he got the message on October 3, stating that he had been given the second dose on October 2. My son helped me download the certificate. It has details of the staff who administered the vaccine at the Vadagaon Hospital. But that is not true, he said. N.K. Patel, a businessman from the Old City, said that he had received similar messages. “I have received three messages, but only dose. This was disappointing,” he said. S. Syed Ahmed, a trader, said that he too received a message that his parents were given doses, while they did not. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that he would ask the officials concerned to look into such complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declining-covid-19-cases-in-belagavi/article36956384.ece
12 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Boy falls into canal, dies||A 10-year-old boy died when he fell into the Kankanawadi Canal near Raibag in Belagavi district. Rahul Byakud slipped into the canal when he went to play in the field near the canal on Sunday evening. His brother panicked and told his parents about it. Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel began a search for him and retrieved the body by Monday afternoon. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-falls-into-canal-dies/article36956382.ece
12 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Narrow escape for family as roof falls||Eight members of a family had narrow escape, as they took action in time in Agasga village in Belagavi district. On Sunday night, Basavanneppa Kadolkar and his family members were sleeping in their house, when they heard the roof creaking.  The house was old and damaged at places. They got up and ran out even as a part of the roof collapsed and fell at the spot where they were sleeping. “We were saved as if by a miracle,” Kadolkar told journalists on Monday. Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narrow-escape-for-family-as-roof-falls/article36956386.ece
12 October 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Flight service to Tirupati launched||Star Air launched a flight service connecting Belagavi with the temple town of Tirupati from the Sambra Airport here on Monday. This service will operate twice a week. The flight will arrive here from Tirupati at 12.55 p.m. and leave here for Tirupati at 1.20 p.m. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi inaugurated the flight that was started under the Centrally- sponsored UDAAN Scheme. She hoped that it would benefit pilgrims and also boost tourism. Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya said that the passenger load was expected to increase over the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flight-service-to-tirupati-launched/article36956385.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wholesale rate of flowers drops as heavy rains play spoilsport||The festival season is not bringing much cheer to either flower growers or wholesalers who were banking on volume of sales to tide them through Dasara. While farmers are struggling with crop loss, the lack of supply has done little to increase prices as demand has also dropped considerably. Since Ganesh Chathurthi, the wholesale rates of flowers have been dropping steadily as rains play spoilsport. Most retail vendors sell flowers on the road, but have stopped doing so due to the rains. People, too, are not buying as much even when compared to 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic was more prevalent. Compared to last year, the rate of flowers is very low this Dasara season, said G.M. Divakar from the K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association. In the wholesale market, jasmine flowers are selling at just Rs. 400/kg, while the same time last year, a kg of jasmine commanded around Rs. 800. Similarly, kanakambara (crossandra or firecracker flower) is selling at around Rs. 200/kg, compared to Rs. 800/kg during the festive season in 2020. The wholesale rates for shevantige (chrysanthemum) and chandu hoova (marigold) is around Rs. 50-Rs. 60 a kg. This has come as a huge blow to growers who are struggling to cope with crop loss and low rates. According to Govind Y.D., a flower grower from Chickballapur, there has been no let up in rain over the past five years. Flowers are rotting in the plants and labourers are hesitant to harvest them, he said. T. Bharat Gowda, a flower grower from Vijayapura near Devanahalli, said they were counting on Dasara, known as ‘Nada Habba, to make some profit. “This year, flower growers have only had losses. We can expect good rates only if the rain lets up for at least two days,” he said. As a result, the quantity and quality of flowers entering the wholesale market has dropped. According to Mr. Divakar, business in the whole market has also dropped by half. “The quality of flowers coming to the market has come down, which has affected the sales further,” he claimed. Retail vendors are hoping that business will pick up in the coming days. During the month of ‘Pitru paksha’, flower rates were lower. “During this month, no pujas are performed. There was no demand for flowers. The demand for flowers will increase towards the end of the nine-day Dasara festival, especially during Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami,” he said, and added that it was middlemen who were making a profit, as always.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wholesale-rate-of-flowers-drops-as-heavy-rains-play-spoilsport/article36956171.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Baiyappanahalli RoB to be ready by month-end||The long-awaited Railway over Bridge (RoB) project at Baiyappanahalli is likely to be completed by the end of October, but despite waiting for years, motorists will not be able to use it till January next year. They will be able to use the two-lane RoB only after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) completes constructing the approaching roads The RoB is crucial as it connects Old Madras Road with the newly built Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal. The South Western Railways has spent Rs. 314 crore to build the swanky AC terminal but is not in a position to start commercial operations due to the poor road network from both Old Madras Road and Banaswadi sides. In September, Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had said that the terminal will be inaugurated after “connectivity glitches” are fixed. The project was initially sanctioned in 2000-01, but was delayed for two decades. Officials cited delays in procuring defence land as one of the major hurdles. It was only in 2019 that the issues were resolved. “The RoB project was taken up under a cost-sharing basis by the SWR and the State Government. The two-lane 710 metre RoB will be made functional after the BBMP completes the approaching road works,” said Aneesh Hegde, Chief PRO of SWR. At present, authorities have blocked the access road from Old Madras Road side; however, two-wheeler riders use the gaps between barriers to use the muddy approach road. When contacted a BBMP official said: “Prior to building the approach road, there is need to build a drainage system. Works are likely to be completed by January.” The BBMP has also planned a Rs. 260 crore mega project, an elevated rotary flyover at Maruthi Sevanagar-IOC junction, to provide access to the terminal area as well as to Kammanahalli, Banaswadi, Old Madras Road, and other parts of the city. Till this project becomes a reality, authorities have to make sure that RoB is functional and that the existing roads connecting to the terminal are upgraded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/baiyappanahalli-rob-to-be-ready-by-month-end/article36956177.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Attendance low as students stay home to care for younger siblings||Many students in upper primary and high schools hailing from lower economic sections of society are not attending physical classes as they are busy taking care of their younger siblings while their parents are at work. Lower primary classes have been closed since the onset of the pandemic in March 2020. “This is a major problem particularly for families who have migrated from rural areas as they have no other family support system. They cannot leave their younger children alone,” said Nagasimha G. Rao, director of Child Rights Trust (CRT). CRT is working with 21 families who are facing this problem. Child rights’ activists are worried that these children in the long run may drop out of school, or be made to work. Non-governmental organisations and child rights’ activists are not the only ones to have flagged this. Various officials of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education have noticed this trend as well. Fr. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR), said he saw several such instances during his field trips in north Karnataka. “The pandemic has worsened the financial situation of people and the thought of providing education has taken a back seat in the minds of many parents. There is a lot of damage done by the pandemic, but to prevent more damage, lower primary classes need to be reopened immediately,” he said. H.K. Manjunath, president of the High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said many families had not even completed the admission formalities for their children due to this reason. “Factors like this, child labour, and migration have lead to a dip in the attendance,” he said, adding that there was a need for the government to initiate measures to address this. Stakeholders said that efforts need to be made to increase enrolment after offline classes for lower primary sections begin. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh on Monday announced that offline classes for Classes I-V will resume on October 21, along with mid-day meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attendance-low-as-students-stay-home-to-care-for-younger-siblings/article36956192.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wall near underpass collapses||The spate of heavy rains over the last few days are exposing the fault lines in the city’s infrastructure. A day after a retaining wall of a stormwater drain collapsed in Nagarbhavi 2nd Stage, another wall near Kino Theatre underpass in Seshadripuram gave way on Monday. Over the last fortnight, rains have wreaked havoc in the city with buildings developing cracks, tilting, or collapsing with alarming frequency. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials suspect that in the latest incident at Seshadripuram, the stone masonry wall may have become weak following rains and water seepage. According to locals who complained to the BBMP, the wall collapsed sometime around noon.  The zonal chief engineer said that the wall was at least 30 years old. “It appears that the collapse is due to hydro-static pressure,” the official said, and added that one house adjacent to the spot was in a precarious position, as a portion of the foundation had been exposed. “We are now reinforcing the wall to prevent further damage,” the official stated. The official also said that residents of the one-storey house have been asked to vacate the premises. While the civic body’s major roads department is working on drawing up a plan for an RCC retaining wall, the BBMP is also coordinating with officials from the South Western Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wall-near-underpass-collapses/article36956173.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||350-bed Infosys block at Jayadeva ready for launch||With the completion of a 350-bed Infosys Foundation cardiac hospital complex, the state-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences is further equipped to handle the increasing daily caseload for cardiac emergencies and elective cardiac care. Located on the premises of Jayadeva Institute in Bengaluru, the new facility is likely to be inaugurated in November first week. Institute Director C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu that the new facility is a great relief as the patient load has been increasing day by day resulting in over-crowding in the hospital. “With an influx of both in-patients and outpatients, functioning with existing infrastructure posed a major challenge, especially during the nights. We have been seeing 70-80 admissions during the nights (one admission every five minutes) for either heart attack, heart failure or other cardiac emergencies making it difficult to handle the load,” Dr. Manjunath said. He said, “Based on our appeal, Infosys Foundation, under the leadership of Sudha Murty took up construction of a 350-bed cardiac hospital complex in the present Jayadeva hospital premises. The new facility has been completed at an approximate cost of Rs. 103 crore and is ready for handing over for use.” “This new facility has two cardiac cathlabs, two operation theatres and one hybrid operation theatre, with 100 ICCU beds and 250 general ward beds. With this, Jayadeva hospitals will have 15 cardiac cathlabs, the highest in any government-run cardiac facility in the country,” he said. Jayadeva Hospitals will now have a total of 1,800 cardiac beds making it the largest heart care destination. Currently, the institute has a bed strength of 1,450, including 650 beds in Bengaluru. To facilitate easy movement of patients and staff, this new facility is connected to the main hospital by a bridge. Providing cardiac care at an affordable cost to all sections of the society and free treatment to the deserving poor, the institute annually conducts more than 40,000 cardiac cathlab procedures (the highest in the country) including coronary angiograms, angioplasties, stents, pacemakers. It has been ranked Number 1 in the field of interventional cardiology. The institute has recorded 500% growth in the last 12 years. “In addition to government grants and support, nearly 35-40 Charitable Organisations are supporting the cause of poor patients’ cardiac treatment. The cost of various procedures such as angioplasties, stents, pacemakers and open heart surgeries is nearly 60% less here compared to private hospitals,” the doctor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/350-bed-infosys-block-at-jayadeva-ready-for-launch/article36956188.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Electricity shortage a privatisation ruse’||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Monday alleged that the scarcity of electricity might be a “creation” of the government to privatise the thermal power plants in Karnataka. “We have to first understand if the scarcity of coal is artificially created. Karnataka had never faced a power crisis till now; we had excess production compared to demand. As our thermal plants are closed, the requirement of coal is not very high. I see this as an attempt to weaken government-owned power plants and privatise them,” the former Chief Minister said. He opposed privatisation of power plants fearing a cut in free power supply to irrigation pump (IP) sets of farmers. “Once privatised, free power given to farmers will be stopped,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, during his visit to Delhi last week, had urged the Centre to ensure adequate supply of coal to thermal plants in Karnataka. On infighting among Ministers in the BJP with regard to control of Bengaluru city, he said, “The main reason for the infighting is their urge to make money through corruption. What else can we expect from the BJP?” GST and fuel prices He wants the government to demand its rightful share in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation and tax devolution. “We should not be begging for our share in GST,” he said. On the rise in price of fuel and LPG, he said an additional Rs. 3,000 crore was collected in the form of tax between April and September by the Karnataka Government compared to the same period last year. The Tamil Nadu Government has reduced the tax by Rs. 3 per litre. “The Karnataka Government should reduce taxes by at least Rs. 10. Only then will the prices of essential commodities come down,” he said. The Congress leader also reiterated that he was not interested in national politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electricity-shortage-a-privatisation-ruse/article36956199.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||29,522 clear SSLC supplementary exam||As many as 29,522 students of the 53,155 who wrote the SSLC supplementary exams passed, taking the pass percentage to 55.54. The results were announced on Tuesday afternoon. The exams were held on September 27 and 29. The pass percentage this year is higher than the last two. While it was 51.28% in 2019-20 (against 2,13,955 students) and 42.47% in 2018-19 (against 1,92,181 students). According to a release, the break-up of the pass percentage was: 49.86% for CCE regular fresh candidates, 59.42% for CCE regular repeaters, 38.31% for CCE private fresh candidates, 54.58% for CCE private repeaters, 65% for new scheme repeaters, and 51.63% for new scheme private repeaters. Gender-wise, girls fared better than boys with 57.25 pass percentage over the 54.66% of the boys. Among schools, government schools saw the highest pass percentage - 58.05% (for 3,232 schools and 27,313 students), followed by 54.08% for aided schools (for 2,355 schools and 16,736 students), and 50.7% for unaided schools (2,151 schools and 9,106 students). Rural and urban Rural areas posted a better pass percentage of 61.04 over the 48.2 pass percentage in urban areas. Kannada-medium students, who were the highest in numbers too (42,971), had the best pass percentage of 58.01, followed by Hindi-medium students (54.55% for 11 students), Marathi medium (52.48% for 848 students) and Urdu (52% for 2673 students). Greeshma Nayak. N from Alva’s English Medium School, Moodabidri, Dakshina Kannada scored the highest, with 95.8%. M.D. Shanawaz from Grammar Multi Media E.M.H.S, Hussaini Alam, Roza, Kalaburagi, secured 94.7%, while Gowri Manohari M.D. from Sudarshana High School, Mysuru scored 94.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29522-clear-sslc-supplementary-exam/article36956186.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ritu Raj Awasthi takes oath as 31st Chief Justice of Karnataka||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, 61, took oath as the 31st Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka on Monday. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administered the oath to him at Raj Bhavan. He was serving as the senior-most judge at the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court till his elevation as the Chief Justice of Karnataka.Born on July 3, 1960, Justice Awasthi graduated in law from Lunknow University in 1986, enrolled as an advocate in 1987, and practised in the fields of civil, service, and education matters before the Lucknow Bench. He had served as an Assistant Solicitor General of India at Lucknow before his elevation as an additional judge of the Allahabad High Court on April 13, 2009. He was appointed as a permanent judge in December 2010. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other dignitaries attended the oath-taking ceremony held at Glass House of Raj Bhavan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ritu-raj-awasthi-takes-oath-as-31st-chief-justice-of-karnataka/article36956197.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks dismissal of Union Minister Ajay Mishra||Members of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) and Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) staged a protest on Monday demanding the dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra from the Union Cabinet. They also condemned the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Mishra’s son Ashish was arrested in connection with the death of farmers and some others, who were run over by a vehicle in the convoy of the Union Minister and the violence that followed. During the protest, Congress leaders observed a minute’s silence for the deceased farmers. Indian Youth Congress president B.V. Sreenivasa said, “We will continue to raise this issue wherever, whenever and on whichever platform is available to us.Our next movement will be ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ (a movement to fill jails by courting arrest),” he said. KPYCC president Raksha Ramaiah said that the Youth Congress would continue to protest against the ruling BJP’s “anti-farmer and anti-people policies”. KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy, party leader B.K. Hariprasad, and AICC secretary B.M. Sandeep Kumar were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-seeks-dismissal-of-union-minister-ajay-mishra/article36956198.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable jumps into well to save suspect||A police constable attached to Yelahanka station climbed down a 25 ft deep well in the rain at night to save a suspect who had fallen into it while trying to evade arrest. Constable Shivakumar was part of the team tracking the suspect. The incident occurred in Thoppur village in Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu, where the man they were tracking and two of his associates were hiding after allegedly committing a robbery in Yelahanka on October 3. They had reportedly assaulted a sales executive of a private firm, and robbed him of his gold chain, phone, and Rs. 3,000 in cash. Based on his complaint, Yelahanka police station inspector K.P. Sathyanarayan and the team analysed CCTV footage and identified the accused. A team went to secure their arrest but the accused escaped to Thoppur village. Mr. Sathyanarayan, Mr. Shivakumar and others arrived at the village on Sunday night and surrounded the trio. They fled, but one of them fell into the well and drowned. “It was a forest area and pitch dark. Mr. Shivakumar who was chasing the accused realised the danger. Without wasting time, he tied a rope brought from the jeep, secured it, and scaled down the well,” said a police officer. With the help of other staff, the accused and Mr. Shivakumar were pulled out. The suspect did not know how to swim and appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. “He was brought back to station for questioning while efforts are on to track down his associates,” the police officer added. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant commended Mr. Shivakumar for his act of bravery and announced a reward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-jumps-into-well-to-save-suspect/article36956179.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for killing son||A man allegedly killed his 29-year-old son at the family’s residence in KHB Colony near Kamakshipalya in West Bengaluru on Monday afternoon. According to the police, the victim, Santosh, worked as a tout in the Regional Transport Office (RTO) at Yeshwanthpur, and lived with his parents. Police said they received information that a person sustaining stab injuries was taken to a private hospital for treatment by relatives. When they arrived at the hospital, they learned that Santosh had died. A police team visited the residence, and saw that Santosh’s father Gururaj, 58, had attempted to clean the crime scene. “Father and son got into a fight, following which Gururaj stabbed Santosh multiple times. The incident took place around 2.30 p.m.,” said an officer. He added that while other family members took Santosh to the hospital, Gururaj cleaned the blood stains with water in an attempt to destroy evidence. The police have detained him. “We have taken up a case of murder,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-killing-son/article36956181.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Kannada ignored at NIMHANS convocation’||Taking exception to Kannada being ignored during the 25th convocation of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru on Sunday, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said it was “unpardonable” to ignore Kannada at an event in which the participants included Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “Hindi gets the first place! English second place! Kannada third place! There is no other better example than this to show that Kannada is in the clutches of those opposed to it. There was a Chief Minister, a Minister, and two Members of Parliament (from Karnataka) on the dais. How did their conscience allow them to take the stage when thousands-of-years-old Kannada was brought down to third place?” Mr. Kumaraswamy tweeted on Monday. The JD(S) leader said that the “attack” on Kannada was increasing every day from the national parties and was like an attack by foreigners on the country. “For those who propagate the ‘nation first’ theory, what stops them from saying Kannada first in Karnataka? Is it a hidden agenda of the BJP to remove Kannada from Karnataka?” Claiming that there were now many insults to Kannada, he said, “It is time to fight.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-ignored-at-nimhans-convocation/article36956201.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seeks status report on water pipeline work||In a coordination meeting on Monday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta directed BWSSB (Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board) officials to provide details on the status of water pipeline works in 110 villages which were added to BBMP limits. Mr. Gupta said that non-availability of the status report was causing delays in taking up road restoration work. The BWSSB has been asked to appoint a nodal officer. Instructions were also given to BMRCL to keep Bannerghatta Road in good condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-seeks-status-report-on-water-pipeline-work/article36956184.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||373 new cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka reported 373 new cases of COVID-19 on October 11, taking the total to 29,81,400. Bengaluru Urban reported 146 cases and five deaths. With 10 deaths in Karnataka, the toll rose to 37,895. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 611 persons were discharged on October 11, taking the total recoveries to 29,33,570. Karnataka now has 9,906 active patients. While the test positivity rate for the day was 0.45%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.68%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/373-new-cases-10-deaths/article36956189.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AICC appoints secretaries to Surjewala||The All-India Congress Committee on Monday appointed Kuldeep Rai Sharma, MP representing Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Raminder Singh Alwa, MLA from Punjab, as party secretaries attached to Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka. Both will work under Mr. Surjewala in the State Congress. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi made both appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aicc-appoints-secretaries-to-surjewala/article36956203.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three runaway boys reunited with parents||Three minor boys, class X students from Bagalagunte, who were reported missing by their parents on Saturday, were traced near Anand Rao circle on Monday morning. The boys were asking for newspaper distribution jobs in the early hours. Newspaper agency employees suspected something amiss and alerted the Upparpet police. The police identified the boys as those reported missing. The Bagalagunte police had shared photographs of the boys across police stations in Karnataka. The boys were handed over to their parents later in the day and counselled on the dangers of running away. According to the police, two of the three children had left notes for their parents stating they were leaving home to make a name for themselves in sports. The boys told police that they went to Kengeri and then to Mysuru where they saw a few Dasara events. They returned to the city early Sunday morning. The parents told the media that they are not against sports but wanted them to concentrate on their exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-runaway-boys-reunited-with-parents/article36956174.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lawyer raises concerns on manual scavenging||Lawyer and human rights activist Vinay Sreenivasa filed a complaint with the MD of Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. alleging that a company it had contracted appeared to be practising manual scavenging. Mr. Sreenivasa, on Monday, put up clips and photos of three men entering a pit with no protective gear and manually emptying it. He tagged Smart City MD Rajendra Cholan, city Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, and the BBMP in his tweets. In a tweet to Mr. Cholan, he said, “As an officer do you not know the law? That manual scavenging is not allowed?” He submitted a complaint to Mr. Cholan. He said that when he spoke to the contractors, they said that machines couldn’t clean the clogged manhole, and hence they were using labourers. “If the water was indeed sewage, it is an offence under Section 7 of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act,” he said in his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lawyer-raises-concerns-on-manual-scavenging/article36956180.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gastroenterology institute opened||Three years after it was conceptualised, the Institute of Gastroenterology (IGOT), an autonomous government hospital, was inaugurated on Sunday. Located on Victoria Hospital campus, this speciality hospital has given a ray of hope to nearly 2,000 patients waiting for liver transplants. It is the second government facility dedicated to gastroenterology after Delhi’s Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Institute head Nagesh N.S., who earlier headed the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology at BMCRI and the transplant team at PMSSY super-speciality hospital, said the 113-bed new facility has been built to address all gastroenterology needs of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gastroenterology-institute-opened/article36956185.ece
12 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Accused caught after he escapes from police station||A person arrested on charges of attempting to rape a minor girl escaped from the police station at Balehonnur in N.R.Pura taluk on Sunday. However, the police secured him late in the evening. Nizam, 26, a resident of a village near Balehonnur was arrested following a complaint against him registered on Saturday. He allegedly attempted to rape a 12-year-old girl. The police had arrested him on Sunday and kept him in the station. While the staff members in the station were busy with other works, he ran out. The police launched a search for him. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M.Hakay and other officers also reached the station. He was traced near Koppa. Nizam had got into a vehicle on the way towards Koppa. The police had put up barricades on all roads nearby to trace him. The accused was remanded to judicial custody on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-caught-after-he-escapes-from-police-station/article36956529.ece
12 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two held for transporting cattle illegally in Hassan dist.||The Sakleshpur Rural Police on Sunday arrested two people on charges of transporting cattle illegally and seized the mini-truck carrying seven cattle. The arrested are Farooq, 42, and Anwar, 21 of Ujire in Belthangady taluk. Sakaleshpur Circle Police Inspector Chaitanya had received information about the illegal transportation. His staff stopped the vehicle near Maranahalli early morning on Sunday. The accused had not obtained clearances to transport cattle from the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-transporting-cattle-illegally-in-hassan-dist/article36956397.ece
12 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||UAS teaching staff decide to continue their protest||With their main demands pertaining to various facilities not being considered for fulfilment, teaching staff of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, who are on indefinite strike for a week now, have resolved to continue the agitation. General Secretary of UAS Teachers Welfare Association Mahantesh Naik said on Monday that Vice-Chancellor of UAS, Dharwad, M.B. Chetti had not responded positively to their demands. “Consequently, we are forced to continue the agitation in front of the administrative building of the university. There is no question of withdrawing the protest till our legitimate demands are met,” he said. Prof. Naik said that they were aware of the fact that the final decision on some of the demands raised by them should be decided after discussion at a meeting of the Board of Management Council. However, the Vice-Chancellor had not yet convened the board meeting, he said. The agitation by the teaching staff of UAS, Dharwad, has received support from various quarters. On Sunday, Chairman of Karnataka Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti chaired a meeting on the issue. However, according to the protesting staff, their demands were not being met. Prof. Naik said that the rules of the ICMR and UGC were not being implemented in toto , resulting in deprivation of facilities to faculty members. On October 4, teachers associated with University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, and working in more than 34 post-graduate centres spread across seven districts of North Karnataka launched the agitation seeking fulfilment of their long-pending demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-teaching-staff-decide-to-continue-their-protest/article36956392.ece
12 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘BJP least bothered about soaring prices of essential commodities’||Member of Legislative Assembly H.K. Patil has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was least bothered about the soaring prices of petroleum products and essential commodities thereby pushing commoners, farmers and workers to the streets, has lost its moral right to seek votes. Addressing presspersons in Haveri on Monday, he said that despite the indefinite agitation that farmers have continued for over 10 months now, the BJP-led Union Government was least bothered about their plight. “Through the new farm laws, the BJP government is following anti-farmer policy. It has utterly failed in COVID-19 management also. Now, with what face will they (BJP leaders) go before the electorate to seek votes,” he said. ‘Attack on humanity’ Taking strong exception to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which a Union Minister’s son has been arrested on the charge of mowing down protesting farmers, Mr. Patil termed the incident as “an attack on humanity”. “If the Supreme Court had not intervened, the Uttar Pradesh Government would not have arrested the Union Minister’s son,” he said. The former Minister said that the nation’s wealth created during the last seven decades through the contribution of farmers, workers and all nationalists, is now being sold to private parties by the BJP government, to show its loyalty towards capitalists, he said. I-T raids On the recent Income Tax raids on property belonging to a close aide of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, he said that a BMTC driver-cum-conductor, who worked under Mr. Yediyurappa, had amassed wealth over Rs. 4,000 crore. “Do you need any other example to show how the State Exchequer is being looted? The government is not taking any action on chief engineers. And, instead of acting against all those involved, the government has gone into a slumber,” he said. Amazon bribery scandal Mr. Patil said that a media house has exposed the Amazon bribery scandal in which its representatives paid bribes to government officials. However, the Union Government is busy painting a rosy picture about itself through huge advertisements claiming that the country is moving ahead with progress, he said. To a query, he said that some fans of Leader of Opposition in the Assembly might have said that Siddaramaiah should become the next Chief Ministerial candidate from the Congress. “But the Congress has a system. It will be decided after elaborate discussion in a meeting chaired by the All India Congress Committee president,” he said. Congress leaders R.V. Deshpande, S.R. Patil, D.R. Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-least-bothered-about-soaring-prices-of-essential-commodities/article36956396.ece
12 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nomination papers of 12 rejected leaving 17 in the fray in Hangal||Scrutiny of nomination papers filed by candidates for the by-election to Hangal Legislative Assembly Constituency was carried out on Monday and nomination papers of 12 candidates were rejected during scrutiny. According to official communication from the district election authorities, of the 29 candidates who had filed their nomination papers for the by-election, the nomination papers of 17 candidates were found valid. The scrutiny was carried out at the office of the Election Officer in Hangal. The nomination papers of Congress candidate Srinivas Mane, BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar, Janata Dal(S) candidate Nizam Sheikh, Udachappa Uddanakal (Karnataka Rashtra Samiti), Fakkiragouda Shankaragouda Gajigoudra (Raita Bharat Paksha), Shivakumar Talawar (Lok Shakti Party) and 11 independents were declared valid after scrutiny. The candidates, whose nominations have been declared as valid, still have time to decide on contesting the election. They have till time till October 13 to withdraw their nomination papers, if they change their mind. The district authorities have made elaborate arrangements for polling which is scheduled to take place on October 30. Counting of votes will take place on November 2. Already, political leaders of the mainstream parties have begun canvassing for the respective party candidates. Due to the pandemic, the Election Commission has imposed various restrictions and has also reduced the time for campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nomination-papers-of-12-rejected-leaving-17-in-the-fray-in-hangal/article36956391.ece
12 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Provide house ownership rights to tanda dwellers’||Chairperson of Karnataka Tanda Development Corporation P. Rajeev has directed the authorities concerned to provide house ownership rights to landless agriculture workers dwelling in tandas across Kalaburagi district, in the next three months. Chairing a meeting of officials of the Revenue Department here on Monday, Mr. Rajeev said that Revenue Minister R. Ashok has set a deadline of three months for distributing ownership rights to all families dwelling in tandas in forest areas for the last four decades in the district. The Revenue Department has identified 439 tandas in the district. It is keen on converting these tandas or hamlets into revenue villages. However, according to a survey conducted by Tanda Development Corporation, there are 483 tandas in the district. The officials concerned have submitted details to tahsildars. Mr. Rajeev directed the Deputy Commissioner to take steps for converting all the 483 tandas into revenue villages. Mr. Rajeev said that tandas having a population of at least 100 should have a Fair Price Shop each. The Food and Civil Supplies Department Commissioner has written to all the Deputy Commissioners, he added. He asked Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna to issue a notification for establishing Fair Price Shops in tandas immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provide-house-ownership-rights-to-tanda-dwellers/article36956388.ece
12 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Plastic mulching helps prevent Yellow Leaf Disease, says scientist||Acting Director of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod, Kerala, Anitha Karun has said that plastic mulching taken up on trial basis in five Yellow Leaf Disease-hit arecanut plantations in Karnataka has revealed that it has helped in preventing the spread of the disease. Speaking after visiting two plastic mulching experimental plantations in Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada on Monday, she said that the CPCRI has taken up plastic mulching on five Yellow Leaf Disease-hit gardens in the State. Of these, two plots are in Markanja village, one in Kalmakar village of Sullia taluk and two are in Sringeri. She said that plastic mulching was taken up four years ago. “This is the fifth year of the experiment. We found that there is no spread of the disease in all the five plots. Symptoms have also reduced,” she added. Earlier, a team of scientists, led by her, visited an experimental plantation each in Kalmakar and Markanja villages. The CPCRI has taken up plastic mulching to reduce soil moisture. At the same time, it is feeding bio-fertilizers and bio-nutrients to the affected palms. The former CPCRI Director P. Chowdappa, who is also heading the technical committee of the Karnataka Task Force on Arecanut, told The Hindu that mulching using bio-degradable plastic to reduce soil moisture, application of bio-fertilizers and bio-nutrients and using bio-agents in Yellow Leaf Disease-affected plantations will help save palms which may continue to give yield. It is a short-term measure to save the plantations. As a long-term measure, alternative fruit crops such as rambutan, avacado, dragon fruit, mangosteen and bamboo can be cultivated. A progressive farmer and farm scientist D.C. Chowta of Meeyapadavu in Kasaragod district, Kerala, has been cultivating fruit crops successively now. Mr. Chowdappa, who is Vice-Chancellor, Bharatiya Engineering, Science and Technology (BEST) Innovation University, Anantpur, said that it is estimated that about 14,000 hectares of arecanut could have been hit by the Yellow Leaf Disease in the country. The disease was first reported in the State in 1965. Now, it is spread in parts of Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plastic-mulching-helps-prevent-yellow-leaf-disease-says-scientist/article36956632.ece
12 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Unique campaign to foster reading||Over a week since it began, many people are seen spending time at ‘Nest of books’, adjoining the bus stand in Ulaibettu village of Mangaluru taluk, before getting into buses coming to the city. Apart from newspapers, this nest has a collection of periodicals and short storybooks. “There is a positive response to this initiative to cultivate the habit of reading,” said panchayat president Harish Shetty. The nest at Ulaibettu is among the book nests or ‘Pustakada Goodu’ come up in 17 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada since October 2. Book nests will come up in 27 mor. Kumara, Dakshina Kannada ZP CEO, who mooted the concept, said these nests are being built to enable villagers to spend some time in the day with books and periodicals. “People can sit at the nest and read or take the book along with them and bring it back a couple of days later,” he told The Hindu.  These nests have been constructed by panchayats using development funds and local donations. The panchayats have purchased some books and are getting some from people. In Udupi district, the ZP and the office of Deputy Director of Public Instruction have jointly taken up the ‘Akshara Joolige’ (A literature carrybag) drive to collect extra books in the locality. These will be used in school libraries of schools or of panchayats. N.H. Nagaur, DDPI, Udupi, said once a week teachers move around with a handbag in localities around the school to collect books that children can read. “Some of the donors have come forward to donate books on the their own,” he said. Among those who have donated books include K.N. Murthy from Kunjibettu village who has donated 20 old books. “I personally went to his house to collect those books from him,” he said. The staff at the Holeyangadi Gram Panchayat have erected a shed near the panchayat office to enable people read the books, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unique-campaign-to-foster-reading/article36956640.ece
12 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai visiting Udupi||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will attend various functions in Udupi on Wednesday. Mr. Bommai will arrive at the airport here at 10 a.m. Later, he will proceed to Udupi. He will lay the foundation stone for a building for Poornaprajna Degree College on the premises of Poornaprajna Evening College at 11 a.m. The Chief Minister will visit New Marigudi Temple in Kaup at 12.30 p.m. Later, he will attend a function at Poornaprajna Auditorium in Udupi at 1 p.m. He will inaugurate a community hall and a skill development centre and then, will perform bhoomi puja for a road project of the Public Works Department at Kuntala Nagar at 2.30 p.m. Mr. Bommai will return to Bengaluru by air via Mangaluru at 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-visiting-udupi/article36956630.ece
12 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four held on the charge of religious conversion||The Udupi Police have arrested four persons on the charge of indulging in forcible religious conversion in Kota in the district. The police gave the names of those arrested on Sunday as Jyothi, Prakash, Manohar and Ravi from Shiriyara of Kundapur taluk. They are all aged between 30 and 40. In a complaint filed with the Kota Police, Anand (36) of Yadtady village said that he received a call from Ravi, who is his relative, asking him to come to a place in the village where he wanted to speak about religion. Ravi went to the assigned place with his friend Sharan. There, Ravi introduced Anand and Sharan to Jyothi, Prakash and Manohar. Jyothi reportedly asked Anand and Sharan to convert to Christianity to get relief for their problems. She spoke ill about Hinduism and made comments that hurt his religious sentiments, he said in the complaint. Activists of Hindu Jagarana Vedike staged a protest on Sunday night outside the Kota Police Station, demanding action against the accused. The police registered the complaint lodged by Anand and arrested the four persons for offences punishable under Section 153 (A), 295 (A) and 298 of Indian Penal Code. They were produced before the jurisdictional magistrate court which remanded the accused to 15 days in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-on-the-charge-of-religious-conversion/article36956636.ece
12 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||53 new cases in twin dists||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts reported no deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday. Dakshina Kannnada reported 38 new cases. With 90 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 445. Test positivity rate was put at 0.59%. Udupi district reported 15 new cases, of which five are from Udupi taluk, six from Kundapur and four from Karkala taluk. While 11 people are in home isolation, four are in healthcare facilities. With 17 patients discharged, there are 90 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/53-new-cases-in-twin-dists/article36956635.ece
12 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Red Cross members meet President||The members of Dakshina Kannada branch of the Indian Red Cross met President Ram Nath Kovind during latter’s visit to the city on October 8. According to a press release, the President spoke to the members for about 15 minutes wherein he appreciated the involvement of Indian Red Cross volunteers in COVID-19 vaccination, more so, of the elderly, who find it difficult to reach vaccination centres in Dakshina Kannada. Apart from Chairman Shantharam Shetty, Honorary Secretary Prabhakar Sharma and Indian Red Cross State Management Committee member Yatish Baikampady were among the group. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra was also present. The members presented the President with a painting representing the culture of Mangaluru by senior artist B. Ganesh Somayaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/red-cross-members-meet-president/article36956638.ece
12 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jamboo Savari: Full dress rehearsal tomorrow||The full dress rehearsal of Jamboo Savari will be held on the palace premises here on Wednesday. On this day, the 21-gun salute will also be accorded after the flagging off of the procession with the participation of all five elephants led by Abhimanyu, which is carrying the golden howdah for the second time in a row. With only a few cultural troupes allowed to participate for keeping the centuries-old tradition alive, the famed Jamboo Savari may end in less than an hour, covering a distance of about 500 metres up to Goddess Bhuvaneshwari temple near the Balarama gate in the palace environs. Deputy Conservator of Forest K. Karikalan said the full dress rehearsal will consist of all participants and also feature showering of flower petals on the wooden replica of the howdah that will be mounted on the back of Abhimanyu. The Commissioner of Police will also be taking part and reviewing the rehearsal ahead of the finale on Friday. The idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari will be placed in the golden howdah and the elephants will begin their stately march after the dignitaries shower flower petals on it at the finale. Schedule On Monday, a rehearsal was conducted by the police personnel and three elephants, including Abhimanyu, took part. The second rehearsal will be conducted on Tuesday ahead of the full dress rehearsal, he said. This year, the Nandi Dhwaja puja before the Vijayadashami procession will be held on Friday between 4.36 p.m. and 4.46 p.m. This will be followed by flower offerings to the statue of the presiding deity placed inside the golden howdah, between 5 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. This is the first time in recent years that the Jamboo Savari begins after 5 p.m. This year, only 500 persons are expected to be permitted to the event in view of the pandemic situation. Though only 400 had been permitted to participate in the inaugural event atop Chamundi Hills, a larger crowd turned up with most of them being the followers of political leaders attending the event and their family members. “The curbs should not remain on paper and they should be enforced strictly although the pandemic is under control. It is being noticed that the curbs are limited only to the common people and not to the politicians, their followers and the party workers,” the locals aver. Precedence This is the fourth time in the last 26 years that the procession has been confined to the palace. A pneumonic plague had struck parts of Surat in Gujarat in 1994 and the Government of Karnataka led by then Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily decided to scale down the procession, confining the spectacle to the palace premises. In 2002, eight years later, the Jamboo Savari was again limited to the palace in the wake of severe drought besides former Minister H. Nagappa’s kidnap by forest brigand Veerappan. The procession in 2020 was confined to the palace with the procession that usually accompanies the celebrations missing, because of COVID-19. This year too, the number of elephants taking part in Jamboo Savari has been limited to five besides limited tableaux. But compared to last year, the pandemic situation is under control with new cases continuing to drop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jamboo-savari-full-dress-rehearsal-tomorrow/article36956533.ece
12 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath slams ex-CMs for softening stand against BSY||BJP legislator A.H. Vishwanath on Monday criticised former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy for attributing political motives to the income tax raids carried out against former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s aide. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath, a former Minister, sought to recall the attacks mounted by Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy against the alleged corruption under Mr. Yediyurappa’s regime. He said the raids carried out by the Income Tax Department against Mr. Yediyurappa’s aide and Irrigation Department contractors had inspired confidence among the public that the central agencies were acting against corruption. He also wondered out loud if Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy were in “favour of corruption”. He asked why the two leaders were complaining when Mr. Yediyurappa himself had welcomed the raids. He accused the Congress and JD(S) leaders of “faking” concern for Mr. Yediyurappa with an eye on the Veerashaiva community votes. “Who are you trying to impress? If you are thinking it will bring Veerashaivas to the Congress or the JD(S) with such statements, you are being foolish. The community is very intelligent,” Mr. Vishwanath said. Tenders He also claimed that he had spoken out against the corruption in the Irrigation Department four days before Mr. Yediyurappa resigned as Chief Minister in July. “I had raised the issue with regard to the hurried finalisation of tenders worth more than Rs. 23,000 crore in the Irrigation Department on July 22, four days before Mr. Yediyurappa resigned,” he said. Mr. Vishwanath claimed he had not only revealed the details regarding the hurried finalisation of tenders before the media, but also written letters to senior BJP leaders in New Delhi. The BJP leader alleged that the tenders were finalised at a meeting attended by not only senior officials of the department, but also a few MPs. On Lokayukta Furthermore, Mr. Vishwanath trained his guns on Mr. Siddaramaiah for “finishing” the Lokayukta by disempowering it from investigating matters relating to corruption. He alleged that the former Chief Minister had diluted the powers of the Lokayukta to save himself from prosecution in the Arkavathi Layout scam. He urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to revive the Lokayukta and “send a chill down the spines of those who are corrupt”.  Who are you trying to impress? If you are thinking it will bring Veerashaivas to the Congress or the JD(S), you are being foolish. The community is very intelligent A.H. Vishwanath,MLC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-slams-ex-cms-for-softening-stand-against-bsy/article36956195.ece
12 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Police help sought to stop crowds mobbing jumbos||The Forest Department in Mysuru has sent a report to the Commissioner of Police, Mysuru, listing out strict measures to be taken during Jamboo Savari here on October 15 for preventing the Dasara elephants from getting distracted. This follows the incident during Srirangapatna Dasara when tusker Gopalaswamy panicked and swerved to his sides, sending the large crowds mobbing the jumbos scurrying for cover. The incident has been taken seriously by the department which is taking all cautionary steps ahead of the Dasara finale confined to the palace. Though the jumbos won’t be stepping out of the palace and march amidst the crowds, the department still wants to ensure they don’t get distracted at any cost. The department has recommended strict measures and sought police help in keeping unrelated people from flocking around the elephants. Deputy Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) K. Karikalan told The Hindu that he has written to the Commissioner of Police seeking supportfor stopping crowds gathering around the elephants besides measures for preventing bursting of crackers in the palace vicinity during Jamboo Savari. “I have prepared a report listing out 10 measures based on the 18-page guidelines released by the State government on captive elephants in 2017. Taking it as a basis, I have recommended the steps for which police support is essential for strict enforcement,” the DCF said. The department has recommended that only the forest staff and mahouts/kavadis be permitted at the place where the golden howdah is tied on the back of the lead tusker, Abhimanyu. Usually, large crowds unconnected to the event congregate there causing disorder. “This needs to be stopped.” “We have sought 10 ft. to 15 ft. space around the elephants for their free movement. It is a kind of zero traffic with least distraction for elephants’ movement since their behaviour is unpredictable and they can become impulsive,” he explained. The elephants are used to the booming sound when cannons are fired since as practice firing rehearsals are done to familiarise them to the sound. But sudden bursting of crackers and loud music can disturb them. Such things should be strictly prevented, the DCF said, in his letter to the Police Commissioner. Mr. Karikalan said at least 6 to 7 forest staff and mahouts and kavadis besides the forest officials are adequate at the place where the howdah is mounted on the tusker. Two Dasara jumbos, Gopalaswamy and Kaveri, were sent to Srirangapatna from Mysuru for Dasara inauguration. The mahouts and staff controlled and calmed tusker Gopalaswamy at Srirangapatna within seconds of the incident. It was sheer foresight that nobody was injured although a large number of people were in close proximity to the elephants and could have been trampled. The crowds surrounding the elephants were hooting and cheering that was followed by bursting of crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-help-sought-to-stop-crowds-mobbing-jumbos/article36956534.ece
12 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||I will be happy to see Siddaramaiah as PM: Vishwanath||Former Minister and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath, who had fallen out with former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, would support the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader’s ascent to the post of Prime Minister. Referring to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s reluctance to move to national politics, Mr. Vishwanath told reporters in Mysuru that it would be a matter of pride for him if a fellow Kannadiga becomes the country’s Prime Minister. He recalled how elated he was when JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda became the Prime Minister in 1996. When Congress leader Sonia Gandhi invited him to New Delhi and asked him to shift to national politics, Mr. Siddaramaiah should have seized the opportunity and put a condition that he would move to New Delhi if he were to be made the Prime Minister, he said. He referred to the ‘courage’ shown by Mr. Gowda, who took up the challenge and accepted the post of Prime Minister. Mr. Vishwanath claimed that Ms. Gandhi had invited Mr. Siddaramaiah, a backward class leader, to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is from the backward classes. Asked for the reason behind Mr. Siddaramaiah’s refusal to shift to national politics, .Mr Vishwanath said he suspects that language could be one of the reasons. “But, he speaks English well. He was a lawyer and a lecturer,” Mr. Vishwanath said. He found fault with former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy for attributing political motives to the income tax raid on an aide of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He recalled the attack by the duo against the alleged corruption during Mr. Yediyurappa’s regime. The income tax raids on Mr. Yediyurappa’s aide and contractors of the Irrigation Department had inspired confidence among the general public that Central agencies were acting against corruption. Referring to their criticism, he asked if Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy were in favour of corruption. “Why are they complainaing when Mr. Yediyurappa had welcomed the raids,” Mr. Vishwanath said. He accused the Congress and JD(S) leaders of ‘faking’ concern for Mr. Yediyurappa with an eye on the votes of the Lingayat-Veerashaiva community. “Who are you trying to impress? If you are thinking it will bring Veerashaivas to the Congress or the JD(S), you are being foolish. The community is very intelligent,” he said. Mr. Vishwanath claimed to have spoken out against corruption in the Irrigation Department before Mr. Yediyurappa resigned as Chief Minister in July this year. “I had raised the issue with regard to the hurried finalisation of tenders worth more than Rs. 23,000 crore in the Irrigation Department on July 22, four days before Mr. Yediyurappa resigned on July 26,” he said. He had written letters to senior BJP leaders in New Delhi on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-will-be-happy-to-see-siddaramaiah-as-pm-vishwanath/article36956538.ece
12 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award ceremony to be held tomorrow||The first Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award ceremony will be held on the Mysuru palace premises on October 13. The district administration had already announced the names of the winners on the occasion of the late ruler’s birth anniversary on June 4. The Assistant Director of Department of Kannada and Culture, Mysuru, said the ceremony will be held at 3 p.m. The awards will be conferred upon 12 persons chosen from different fields in the presence of Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Sri Nirmalanandanatha Swamiji. While Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, will inaugurate the ceremony, former Minister and MLA representing Krishnaraja Assembly constituency S.A. Ramdas will preside over it. Krishne Gowda, thinker, will felicitate the award recipients. People’s representatives from Mysuru district will also participate in the ceremony, the statement added. The winners include G.S. Jayadeva (education, Chamarajanagar), Echanur Kumar (history of rulers, Mysuru), Shankare Gowda (medicine, Mandya), Sukanya Prabhakar (music), Amshi Prasanna Kumar (journalism), Hanasoge Somashekar (Nalwadi literature), Jenahalli Siddalingappa (folklore), Kiraganuru Rajappa (theatre), Gururaj (Mahadeshwara Manteswamy singer), Arun Yogiraj (sculpture), Rajendra (Anna Dasoha), and Arivu Educational and Cultural Trust (organisation).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nalwadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar-award-ceremony-to-be-held-tomorrow/article36956530.ece
12 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Protection squad?||After the protection squads for Balarama and Arjuna, the erstwhile lead Dasara elephants, it’s the time for a similar squad to work as a shield to Abhimanyu, the present howdah-carrying tusker. The incident that took place during the inaugural event of Srirangapatna Dasara raises the importance of such squads, which could act as a security cover, surrounding the elephants with a thick rope preventing the public from closing in. Deputy Conservator of Forest K. Karikalan told The Hindu that the department is mulling over constituting the squad even though this year’s procession is a low-key affair and confined to the palace. Jumbos are unpredictable and all precautions are necessary so that they do not get distracted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protection-squad/article36956531.ece
12 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Don’t take selfies near lights: Minister||In view of an incident of short-circuit reported on JLB Road here on Sunday night, Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar has asked the public to be careful while watching the Dasara illumination, especially in view of rains being recorded here since the last two days. The short-circuit in one of the illuminated areas (serial lights) on the road prompted the Minister to make an appeal against going close to the lights for selfies. In a statement here, the Minister said the illumination has been done to enliven the festive spirit though the celebrations have been kept simple in view of pandemic. “Watch the illumination from a distance and don’t touch the lights. Please avoid taking selfies getting close to the lights,” he pleaded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-take-selfies-near-lights-minister/article36956537.ece
12 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Police arrest agitators for norms violation||The police took several people, including farmer leaders, into custody when they were about to start a dharna in Jalahalli village in Deodurg taluk of Raichur district on Monday, seeking compliance with a direction issued by the High Court of Karnataka, Kalaburagi, to conduct elections to Jalahalli, Chinchodi and Kardigudda gram panchayats. According to the protesters, the High Court, in a petition filed by some residents, passed an order staying the order issued by the State Government upgrading Jalahalli from a gram panchayat to a Town Panchayat and directed the State Election Commission and Deputy Commissioner of Raichur to conduct elections to these three gram panchayats. The protesters said that they were invited by the Jalahalli Police to the police station for discussion but after a few minutes they were taken to the Deodurg Police Station and kept there for hours. “We demanded that the district administration conduct elections to Jalahalli, Chinchodi and Kardigudda gram panchayats as per the directions of the High Court. Instead of complying with the direction, the police took us into custody only to release us later,” Narasanna Nayak, taluk president of Pranta Raitha Sangha, told The Hindu . Srinivas Chapel, tahsildar (in-charge) of Deodurg, said that they are ready to conduct elections but they have not received any direction from the Election Commission yet. A senior police officer said that they took the protesters into custody for violating COVID-19 norms. However, the police released them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-agitators-for-norms-violation/article36956390.ece
12 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Land acquisition opposed||Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, a pro-Kannada organisation, has urged the State Government to take an immediate decision to drop the proposal to establish a bulk drug factory in the Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Area in Yadgir district. Members of the organisation, led by Bheemu Nayak, staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here and submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya on Monday. Mr. Nayak reiterated that the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board ( KIADB) had acquired a total of 3,300 acres of land in Kadechur and Badiyal villages in 2011 to develop industries in the area. However, very few industries have been established there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-acquisition-opposed/article36956389.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flooded||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flooded/article36956183.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In silhouette||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-silhouette/article36956394.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Music to the ears||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-to-the-ears/article36956536.ece
12 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Valiazheekal bridge to be opened soon: Minister||Valiazheekal bridge over Kayamkulam Kayal connecting Alappuzha and Kollam districts will be opened for traffic this year itself, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Mr. Riyas on Sunday visited Valiazheekal and reviewed the progress of the project. He said the construction of the bridge, delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was nearing completion. “The opening of the bridge will be a major boost to the tourism sector and the government will take measures to tap its potential,” Mr. Riyas said. The bridge connecting Arattupuzha grama panchayat in Alappuzha and Alappad in Kollam has been designed to attract tourists. Running parallel to sea and Kayamkulam Kayal, it offers a spectacular view of both the sea and lake from the middle. The bridge with 29 spans is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 146 crore. It has a length of 976 metres. The major attraction of the bridge is the three bowstring arches in the middle, which will allow hassle-free movement of big fishing boats. The bridge will link Azheekal and Valiazheekal fishing harbours. It will help reduce the distance between the two places by 28 kms along with putting them on the tourism map.  A.M. Ariff, MP, MLAs- Ramesh Chennithala and C.R. Mahesh and officials accompanied the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/valiazheekal-bridge-to-be-opened-soon-minister/article36956522.ece
12 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pneumococcal shots for kids||Pneumococcal conjugate vaccination for children has begun in the district. The vaccination is aimed at preventing any disease caused by pneumococcal bacteria, including types of illness like pneumonia affecting the lungs. District Medical Officer N. Priya said that the vaccination can help in preventing the disease spreading to society and has no sideeffects. Meningitis, septicemia and sinusitis are caused by pneumococcal bacteria. When a child is born, the first dose is given in the first week followed by the second dose in the 14th week and third dose in the 9th month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pneumococcal-shots-for-kids/article36956524.ece
12 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Youth held for abuse of minor girl||The Thodupuzha police on Monday arrested Elamdeham resident Eldhose, 20, in connection with the sexual abuse of a 13-year-old girl. The police said that a POCSO case was also slapped on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-for-abuse-of-minor-girl/article36956523.ece
12 October 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Investors start hunger strike in front of cooperative society||Investors who deposited money in the CPI(M)-controlled Peravoor Co-operative House Building Society started a five-day hunger strike on Monday in front of the co-operative society’s office demanding their money back. The party had promised them that their money would be returned by selling the assets of the society and by recovering it from persons concerned. However, Sibi Macheri, an investor, said that they had given the society enough time and it was not possible to wait any longer. Meanwhile, society secretary P.V. Harikumar failed to appear before the investigating officer on Monday for questioning in the case. Pradosh Kumar, Assistant Registrar of Cooperation Department, who is investigating the scam, said a warrant would have to be issued against Harikumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/investors-start-hunger-strike-in-front-of-cooperative-society/article36956462.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ABC project to be expanded||Seven years after its launch, the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme of the Kochi Corporation is set to fortify its activities. The Corporation is thinking in terms of strengthening the programme by adding more facilities to the veterinary hospital and other related infrastructure at Brahmapuram. The existing ABC facility will have to be shifted to a new location when the new solid waste treatment plant comes up. More facilities would be added to the unit, including the boarding facility for community dogs taken for sterilisation and vaccination at the new centre, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the health standing committee. Currently, the civic body has engaged three veterinarians and animal catchers. On a daily average, eight to nine dogs are caught and taken to the ABC facility. The biggest challenge for the successful implementation of the programme is the local resistance towards the release of dogs at the locations from where they are caught. Under the ABC programme, the dogs, after vaccination and sterilisation, have to be dropped back. However, when the animals are returned, there is public resistance. The civic body cannot keep the dogs for long at the ABC facility at Brahmapuram, he said. The number of community dogs roaming in the city areas have increased since the lockdown. It could be the availability of food in the city areas that must be attracting the dogs. There had not been any perceptible fall in the number of community dogs, said Mr. Ashraf.  ‘Never-ending’ The ABC programme, said K.J. Kishore Kumar, the veterinarian who led the ABC programme of the civic body in May 2015, should be considered as a social welfare programme. It is a never-ending programme, which has to go on without any interruption. The impact of the programme could be felt when it was discontinued for some time. The number of dog bites and related issues could go up then, he said. The intervention of the Kerala High Court regarding the community dogs at Thrikkakara had helped in improving the functioning of the Brahmapuram facility, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abc-project-to-be-expanded/article36956470.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Consumer body issues arrest warrant against Mumbai resident||The Ernakulam Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has issued a non-bailable warrant and directed the Mumbai Police Commissioner to arrest a Mumbai resident, and produce him before the Commission on November 17. The president of the Consumer Commission, D.B. Binu, issued the warrant against Sunil Tiwari, a resident of Kalyan Street in Mumbai, for non-compliance with an order passed by the body in 2017 on a complaint filed by Lt. Cdr. S. Savitha, a Naval officer. The consumer plaint pertains to the officer entrusting Southern Roadlines (where Mr. Tiwari was manager) to ferry her car to Kochi by truck for Rs. 11,055 as logistics cost, when she was transferred here from Mumbai. On enquiry following non-receipt of the car for over a fortnight, it was found that the car had suffered extensive damage in a collision with an MUV in Karnakata, while it was being driven to Kochi, which was against the terms of the agreement reached with the logistics firm. She approached the consumer body, seeking compensation for the extensive damage to the car and for default in safely reaching the vehicle on time to Kochi. She again approached the body seeking implementation of its order passed in 2017 of Rs. 2 lakh as compensation with interest, and also annual interest at the rate of 12% since 2017, for the mental agony, physical inconvenience, and cost of repairs of the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumer-body-issues-arrest-warrant-against-mumbai-resident/article36956471.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Nod not needed for prosecuting cops’||The Kerala High Court has held that sanction from the Government as mandated under Section 197 Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC), is not required to prosecute police officers for their illegal acts under the guise of exercising lawful discharge of their official duties. Five officers The court made the observation while confirming the Kollam District Court’s order upholding the sentence awarded to five police officers of Ezhukone police station in Kollam district for assaulting an accused in 1996. The court pointed out that under Section 197 Cr.PC was not meant to protect a public servant dealing with the life or personal liberty of a man out of the purview of law or procedure established by law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-not-needed-for-prosecuting-cops/article36956476.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to speed up coastal protection work||The Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council has appealed to State authorities to speed up works to protect the Kerala coast on a war-footing. KRLCC president Bishop Joseph Kariyil said immediate action was needed to protect the lives and property of coastal residents. The segment of the coast between Pozhiyoor and Anchutheng in Thiruvananthapuram and several segments in Kollam, Alappuzha, and Ernakulam were facing serious threat, said a KRLCC spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-speed-up-coastal-protection-work/article36956468.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Former KPCC member joins CPI||TV Puram Raju, former executive committee member of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee and executive editor and managing director of the party mouthpiece Veekshanam , joined the Communist Party of India on Sunday. Mr. Raju, who had resigned from the Congress a few months ago, said he was disillusioned with the Congress but was still hopeful that the ongoing reorganisation would strengthen the party. He said the CPI had assured him a suitable role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-kpcc-member-joins-cpi/article36956472.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held for trespass, assault||The Kottapady police on Monday arrested three persons accused of assault after trespassing into a house. They assaulted a man and his parents at Munthoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-trespass-assault/article36956474.ece
12 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ganja seized||In a major drug bust, the Ernakulam rural police on Monday seized 31 kg of ganja smuggled in through courier and arrested two persons from Kunnuvazhi in Perumbavoor. The arrested were identified as Muhammed Muneer, 27, of Kothamangalam, and Arshad, 35, of Marampilly. The police had laid a trap to nab them when they came up to collect the parcel found to have been sent from Kakkinada in Andhra Pradesh. The contraband had come in three big parcels in the guise of clothes inside which ganja was stacked in small satchels packed like towels. A special squad had already been formed to probe potential drug smuggling into rural limits after a tip-off received by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. “It so happened that the police had received information about the arrival of a suspicious courier and had been lying in wait to nab the ones coming to collect it. The arrested persons were already on the police radar for their suspected links with drug deals,” said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/31-kg-of-ganja-seized/article36956473.ece
12 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||‘Biggest challenge was to prove snakebite was not natural’||The biggest challenge faced by the prosecution during the trial of Uthra murder case was proving that the snakebite was homicidal and not natural. “The prosecution had to establish that Uthra was killed by the cobra, its bite was not natural and it was planted by her husband. Since the crime took place inside a closed room with no witnesses, we had to build the case on scientific and circumstantial evidence,” Special Public Prosecutor G. Mohanraj told The Hindu . Similar cases Before filing the chargesheet, the investigating officers studied two similar cases reported from Pune and Allahabad where a poisonous snake was used as a murder weapon. Persons accused in both the cases were acquitted since the prosecution could not even prove that the death was caused by snake venom. “We went through the judgement of both the cases to find the pitfalls and analyse possible legal snags. Even the smallest aspect was probed in detail to avoid loose ends.” A team that included herpetologists, forensic experts, veterinary surgeons and officials from the Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments was formed to collect scientific evidence. “Usually, polyvalent antivenoms are used to neutralise the poison of different kinds of snakes and if we identify the exact poisonous species, we can go for monovalent antivenom. In Uthra’s case we used the monovalent to prove that she was bitten by a cobra. Next task was to prove the bite was not accidental, but induced,” he said. During the trial the prosecution could prove both the viper and cobra bites were induced and not accidental based on the post-mortem examination report of the snake and a dummy trial. Uthra was on the first floor of her husband’s house when the viper bit her. Non-arboreal reptile The prosecution argued that viper was a non-arboreal reptile and it can never reach the first floor on its own. “A viper crawling to the first floor and biting the victim contradicts its normal serpentine behaviour,” he said. Similarly, the crepuscular nature of the cobra and the difference in natural and induced fang width were presented as evidence. The prosecution also pointed out that cobras were naturally not seen on the premises of Uthra’s home and no snakebite cases were reported from the area in the past 15 years. “Sooraj had procured the venomous snakes from a handler and we had solid evidence connecting him to the handler. So we were able to come up with conclusive facts substantiating the snakebite was unnatural,” adds Mr. Mohanraj.  Sooraj had bought snakes from a handler and we had solid evidence connecting him to the handler. G. Mohanraj Special Public Prosecutor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biggest-challenge-was-to-prove-snakebite-was-not-natural/article36956485.ece
12 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Unconventional methods used to crack case||The investigating team had to go for some unconventional methods to prove that Uthra was murdered. A team of officials from the Animal Husbandry, Forest, and Police Departments along with forensic experts dug out the carcass of the cobra and conducted a post-mortem examination. Though it was buried around 20 days ago, its outer skin, scales, fangs, and hood were found intact and it was confirmed that the reptile was a cobra. Later, the DNA of the same cobra was found in the jar in which Sooraj had kept the snake and the DNA match turned out to be an important piece of evidence. In order to prove the bite was induced, Crime Branch officials conducted a dummy trial. A cobra was let loose on a life-size dummy and a portion of its hand was wrapped in raw chicken meat warmed to body temperature. The measurement of natural bites and those induced by pressing the cobra on its head were taken. The fang width in the bite mark found in Uthra’s body was similar to induced and based on the trial it was argued that consecutive bites on the same place are not possible in snakebite cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unconventional-methods-used-to-crack-case/article36956480.ece
12 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ousted UDF back in power in Erattupetta||About a month after its chairperson was ousted through a no-confidence motion, the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Monday returned to power in the Erattupetta municipality. In the election held on the day, former chairperson Suhra Abdul Khader received 14 votes, including that of a UDF rebel, while Nazeera Subair of the Social Democratic Party of India got five votes. The Left Democratic Front, which has nine members in the 28-member council, did not field a candidate and abstained from voting in line with its earlier decision. The proceedings began with the 13 UDF councillors entering the municipal council hall by 10.45 a.m., followed by the five SDPI councillors. Ansalana Pareekutty, the UDF rebel who had voted in favour of the no-trust motion last month, reached the venue later. She, however, voted in favour Ms. Khader this time. ‘Decline of LDF’ The UDF workers took out a victory march in the town. Speaking on the occasion, municipal vice chairperson and Congress leader Muhammad Ilyas said the election marked the LDF’s decline in Erattupetta. Kottayam District Congress Committee president Nattakom Suresh, IUML district president Asees Badayil and UDF district committee chairman Saji Manjakadambil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ousted-udf-back-in-power-in-erattupetta/article36956483.ece
12 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||466 COVID cases in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to fall in Kottayam with just 466 people testing positive for the disease on Monday Of the fresh cases, 456 people contracted the virus through local transmission. With 49 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Meenachil panchayat, which recorded 30 cases . Kollam Kollam reported 433 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,376 recoveries on Monday. While 429 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two NRIs and two health workers. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 9.7 %. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 179 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but one person contracted the virus through local transmission and of this, the contact source of two persons were yet to be identified With 18 cases , Pandalam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Adoor municipality, which reported 12 cases.  ( With contribution from bureaus in Kollam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/466-covid-cases-in-kottayam/article36956520.ece
12 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Judicial probe sought into structural weakness of complex||The Kozhikode District Congress Committee (DCC) has demanded a judicial probe into the issue of structural weakness of the KSRTC bus terminal complex on Mavoor Road in the city. The Congress party will organise a protest meeting at the terminal at 3 p.m. on Saturday, which will be inaugurated by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan in the presence of M.K. Raghavan, MP, and MLA T. Siddique. DCC president K. Praveen Kumar told reporters here on Monday that there was large-scale corruption involved in the project, both in its construction and lease agreement. KPCC general secretary P.M. Niyas said that the government was responsible for any defects in the construction of the building. “CPI(M) ministers had a key role in ensuring that ALIF builders got the building on lease,” he alleged. Mr. Praveen Kumar raised suspicion on the IIT Madras report, which is yet to be released. “The architect himself, known for his honesty, has alleged that he was offered a bribe by builders. It is part of a conspiracy to eliminate the bus terminal from the building so that it could be completely converted into a commercial building,” he said. “How can a building on Mavoor Road in the heart of the city be leased out for just Rs. 13 per square feet,” he asked. March turns violent The police had to use water cannons to disperse protesters on Mavoor Road as a Yuva Morcha march to the KSRTC bus terminal turned violent on Monday. The march turned violent after activists tried to break the barricade erected by the police. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district president V.K. Sajeevan, who led the march, alleged that the controversy was the result of a conspiracy to convert the building into a completely commercial complex by shifting the bus terminal out of it. He demanded that the State Government release the IIT Madras report before spending the proposed Rs. 30 crore to strengthen the structure. Architect’s stance Earlier, architect R.K. Ramesh, who designed the building, questioned the IIT report that stated that Rs. 30 crore would be needed to strengthen the building if it needs to be used as a bus terminus. In a statement, he said that the report would only succeed in creating an uproar and urged the State Government to release the complete report at the earliest. Mr. Ramesh claimed that he had no role in the construction of the building. He pointed out that the building had passed several tests before it was opened in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judicial-probe-sought-into-structural-weakness-of-complex/article36956465.ece
12 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vacant seats up but it’s tough deal for UG entry||The number of vacant seats in undergraduate courses has been going up in the University of Calicut for the past few years even though many students are unable to get admissions to the courses of their choice. According to sources, 58,283 seats were vacant when the third allotment for admissions to the 2021-22 academic year got completed recently. In 2020, the number of such seats were 34,767. Of them, only 919 seats were in government colleges and 3,444 in aided colleges. The year before that a total of 22,836 seats were vacant. Unclaimed seats The university authorities claim that many students had left the courses after seeking admissions, and the additional seats allocated under sports quota and for Lakshadweep students remained unclaimed. Unaffordable However, many students are not keen on these seats as a majority of them are not in government or aided colleges. There are many who do not even give options in unaided colleges. Students from economically weaker sections cannot afford the fee structure in these institutions. As many as 1.25 lakh students had applied to the 98,662 seats available. Of them, 66,506 are in university study centres and unaided colleges. After the third round of allotment, of the 58,283 seats vacant this year, 45,948 are in unaided colleges in five districts. The State government had increased seats in the colleges by 20% earlier this year. The authorities had hoped that only around 30,000 students would be left away from the admission process. Additional expenses Students are now demanding that fresh batches be allotted in government and aided colleges to tide over the crisis. However, the government may not go for the option as it will entail additional financial expenditure. Government and aided college teachers are already saying that the number of students in each class is higher than normal.  As many as 58,283 seats were vacant when the third allotment for admissions to the 2021-22 academic year was done||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-of-vacant-ug-seats-going-up-but-students-left-in-the-lurch/article36956461.ece
12 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||The unforgettable Nedumudi Venu||Nedumudi Venu had an astonishingly long, fruitful career as one of Indian cinema’s greatest actors. He was part of several landmark Malayalam films. It is not easy to make a selection of his best performances; there have been too many. Here are some of them: Kallan Pavithran The 1981 film directed by Padmarajan told a fascinating tale set in rustic background. As the thief Pavithran, Venu gave one of his career’s earliest masterclasses in acting. Vidaparayum Munpe Mohan, a director who has contributed greatly to Malayalam cinema during its golden period in the 1980s, often brought the best out of Venu. This film had the actor playing a young man who successfully hides the pains of his life from his colleagues. Rachana In another splendid film directed by Mohan in the 80s, Venu was brilliant as the young man fooled by his co-worker (Srividya), who is asked by her writer-husband (Bharat Gopi) to pretend she is in love with him, so that he could write a work of fiction on the experience. Its scriptwriter, John Paul, once told this correspondent that it was Gopi who chose Nedumudi and Srividya for the roles. Chamaram Bharathan’s campus film featured an unusual — and bold at that time — romance between Prathap Pothan and Zarina Wahab. Venu, as the young priest who is also a student, made quite an impact. It was one of his earliest box office hits. Oridathu In master filmmaker G. Aravindan’s surprise box office hit of 1987, Venu gave a superb performance as an electrical overseer who comes to a village that is about to get electricity. His Highness Abdullah In Sibi Malayil’s hugely popular drama of 1990, made from a superb screenplay by A.K. Lohithadas, Venu brought to life the patriarch of an erstwhile royal family, in the way only he could have. Not for the first time, he teamed up with Mohanlal to show how great acting could elevate a film. Oru Minnaminunginte Nurunguvettam In Bharathan’s beautiful film about an ageing couple, both former schoolteachers, Venu and Sharada were outstanding. It was another reminder of his versatility as an actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-unforgettable-nedumudi-venu/article36956457.ece
12 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Set up panel for restoring UGC approval for programmes’||The delay in restoring University Grants Commission recognition for the School of Distance Education (SDE) of the University of Calicut is reportedly becoming a cause for concern among students. The university is among the largest in the State in terms of enrolment of students for its open and distance learning programmes with around 1.5 lakh seeking admission every year. However, for the past two years, these courses are not recognised by the UGC and the university’s attempt to restore its status has failed. In a letter to Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj, United Democratic Front-aligned Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed claimed on Monday that denial of recognition was due to slow-paced efforts by the university. Consequently, private registration for undergraduate and postgraduate courses had to be offered. Mr. Ahammed said that the 2020-21 batch of students under private registration were concerned about their future as their courses were yet to be recognised. “It is only natural that the students have fears about their higher education dreams and job prospects,” he said. Mr. Ahammed claimed that many private deemed-to-be universities were issuing advertisements in the media offering UG and PG programmes recognised by the UGC. If Calicut University’s admission notification was delayed, the students would seek admissions in these places. Many parents and students felt that the delay was deliberate to help such private universities. Therefore, Mr. Ahammed sought setting up of a special committee to evaluate the progress of the university’s efforts to regain the recognition for the SDE’s courses. An official clarification may be issued to allay the fears of students about the recognition of private registration programmes in the academic year 2020-21. He also sought an inquiry into how the SDE lost its recognition.  It is only natural that the students have fears about their higher education dreams and job prospects P. Rasheed Ahammed Syndicate member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/set-up-panel-for-restoring-ugc-approval-for-programmes/article36956460.ece
12 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Campaign commences for setting up AIIMS in Palakkad||A campaign has begun to bring the country’s premier medical institution, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to Palakkad. Palakkad’s Lok Sabha member V.K. Sreekandan and the ruling party at the Centre has raised a point that perhaps there is no other place in the State to outsmart Palakkad for a premier institution like AIIMS. Mr. Sreekandan said that Palakkad had several advantages over other places when it came to setting up an AIIMS. “Palakkad’s geographic location and availability of land can easily make it an ideal place for the proposed AIIMS,” he said. According to Mr. Sreekandan, it was the non-availability of land that grounded the proposal for AIIMS in places such as Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Kannur. “The land the State government acquired for a proposed coach factory in Palakkad is lying unused. We can readily use it for the AIIMS,” he said. Ahalia Health, Heritage and Knowledge Village at Kanjikode near here has offered its sprawling campus for the AIIMS to start. It was on the Ahalia campus that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Palakkad started its programmes within months after the government sanctioned it. “Ahalia group has a giant campus of more than 500 acres. The same way it offered its campus for IIT to begin, Ahalia management has expressed its willingness to offer its campus and all other facilities for the AIIMS. It is time that the State government grabbed this opportunity by pushing for the institution,” said Mr. Sreekandan. Cheaper land rate BJP State treasurer E. Krishnadas, who is also vice chairman of Palakkad Municipality, said that Palakkad was ideal for AIIMS and had enough land for the project. “We not only have the land here, but also can get it for a rate cheaper than anywhere else in the State,” said Mr. Krishnadas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-commences-for-setting-up-aiims-in-palakkad/article36956578.ece
12 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rain lashes Attappady||Rain caused heavy damage to properties and roads at Attappady in Palakkad district on Monday. The ghat road was flooded and several trees were uprooted as rain lashed the upper parts of Attappady for hours. Traffic along the ghat road from Mannarkkad to Attappady was disrupted. Mandanpotti area on the ghat road perhaps suffered the worst as a stream inundated the road. Long queues of vehicles on the road were witnessed on both sides of the stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-lashes-attappady/article36956579.ece
12 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Heavy rain lashes central districts||The heavy rains that lashed the region over the past couple of days has raised the spectre of floods in the low-lying areas of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts. The water level in all major rivers across the region recorded a steady rise throughout the day while the flood waters gushing from the upper reaches have threatened to enter the populated areas in the western parts. The torrential rains also ensured copious inflow to the dams in Pathanamthitta district with water level in the Sabarigiri reservoirs crossing 85%. In view of the heavy rains forecast for the coming days, Pathanamathitta District Collector Divya S. Iyer has advised the public to be cautious against the risk of natural calamities such as local flood situations or landslides. According to officials, people living in low-lying areas, riverbanks and areas prone to landslides should be on high alert. Relief camp opened Staff Reporter writes from Alappuzha: The Alappuzha district administration on Monday opened one relief camp in Mavelikara taluk as heavy rain flooded several low-lying areas in the district. Officials said that a total of six people of two families were shifted to the camp opened at Model Upper Primary School at Chennithala. The district has been witnessing heavy showers since last Thursday. Several parts of Kuttanad taluk have been waterlogged following downpour and an increase in flow of water from the eastern side. Water levels in rivers in the region remain high. Floodwaters entered a number of houses. Parts of the Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road remained submerged for the third consecutive day on Monday. Harvest of the paddy cultivated in the second crop in Kuttanad has come to a standstill. The procurement of the harvested paddy has also been affected. People living along the banks of Pampa, Manimala and Achankovil rivers have been urged to exercise caution. Alert in Kollam Staff Reporter writes from Kollam: With the rains intensifying in Kollam, the district administration has instructed all departments to stay alert. A yellow alert has been declared for Tuesday and the district is expected to receive up to 204.40 mm of rainfall. Fishers venturing into the sea have been directed to exercise caution on October 14 and 15 while KSEB, Police, Forest and Fisheries Departments have been asked to stay prepared to deal with emergencies. “Disaster management officers must be available on the phone 24x7 and taluk-level preparations should also be taken,” said Collector Afsana Parveen Local bodies and the Public Works Department will take steps to cut down the trees since there is a high possibility of strong winds. KSEB has been asked to provide uninterrupted power supply to hospitals while hospital authorities will be responsible for arranging generator facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-lashes-central-districts/article36956526.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies to help in school reopening||The local bodies in the State should take the lead in taking all the precautions ahead of the reopening of schools after a long period of remaining closed during the COVID-19 pandemic period, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. Plans have to be made for the daily upkeep and precautions to be taken at the entry points, classrooms, school compound, toilets, drinking water sources, kitchens, and school vehicles. The local bodies have to ensure that the teaching and non-teaching staff, school bus employees, and family members of the students in each area have taken two doses of COVID-19 vaccine before school reopening. Meetings of the PTA and the school management committee have to be convened for this purpose. People’s representatives have to be present in these meetings. The local bodies also have to ensure that the maintenance work on school vehicles are carried out. School-level health committees have to be formed, with local body representatives also as part of it, for the implementation of all the health protocols.  The local bodies also have to ensure that the maintenance work on school vehicles are carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-should-take-lead-in-school-reopening/article36956463.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crime law will not lead to rights violation: CM||Faced with criticisms against the proposed legislation to rein in organised crime in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Government will not enact a law that violated human rights. Informing the Assembly on Monday that a committee chaired by the Chief Secretary had been constituted to examine and frame a draft legislation for organised crime control, Mr. Vijayan said that the Government was yet to take a final decision on enacting the law. Panel The panel comprised Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Vigilance; Secretary, Law Department; and former Additional Advocate General and senior legal counsel K.K. Raveendranath. Members of the Opposition, including Ramesh Chennithala and K. Babu, questioned the rationale behind the law when several legislations were already in force to prevent such crime. They accused the Government of framing a “black law” that could legalise preventive detentions for up to 180 days, even when the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) had been opposing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and similar laws. K.K. Rema asked whether the alleged failure of the Home Department in implementing the existing laws had necessitated the “anti-people law.” Dismissing such allegations, the Chief Minister said such claims were unfounded since the government had not adopted a stance in the matter. Maintaining that the Home Department had not made any draft legislation, he said that the proposal had been raised by former State Police Chief Loknath Behera. Nexus alleged While Ms. Rema alleged that the nexus between crime syndicates and the police had been evident in cases, including the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case, Mr. Vijayan retorted that the particular case had been investigated during the United Democratic Front (UDF) Government’s rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-law-will-not-lead-to-rights-violation-cm/article36956475.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shutters of dams in district raised||The shutters of the Aruvikkara dam, Peppara dam, and the Neyyar dam in the district were raised further on Monday following heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. By Monday evening, the third, fourth and fifth shutters of the Aruvikkara dam, which is managed by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), were raised by a total of 280 cm, the district administration said.  Peppara dam Four shutters of the Peppara dam were raised by a total of 30 cm on Monday. The shutters will be raised by another 20 cm by 6 a.m. on Tuesday. The four shutters of the Neyyar dam, which is managed by the Irrigation Department, were raised by a total of 240 cm by evening, the administration said. The district had received widespread rainfall on Monday and was put on orange alert. Weather forecasts indicated a reduction in rainfall from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shutters-of-dams-in-district-raised/article36956647.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||82.6% adults, 40.2% kids have COVID antibodies||The seroprevalence study conducted by the Health Department to determine the extent of the exposure of the population to SARS CoV2 virus has found the prevalence of antibodies against the virus to be 82.6% among adults and 40.2% among children in the 5-17 years age group in the State. The low seroprevalence amongst children in the 5-17 year age group, who are totally unvaccinated, indicates that the current transmission dynamics of COVID-19 in the State is likely to undergo a major change when schools reopen next month. Need for vigil It is uncertain times ahead, calling for a high level of vigil and preparation as far as disease surveillance and management are concerned. The Health Department states that given the controlled manner of COVID-19 transmission and the high levels of vaccination coverage in the State, a significant proportion of the SARS CoV2 antibodies (82.7%) now found in adults in the State must have been derived through vaccination. If so, given the fact that vaccine immunity tends to wane in three to five months, the State should be prepared for a complex situation ahead when the cycle of infections and vaccine breakthrough infections will continue to keep up a steady level of COVID-19 transmission in the community for a prolonged period. Among categories The survey that studied the seroprevalence rate in specific population categories reported it to be 65.4% amongst pregnant women (18-49 years) in the State, while in tribal colonies, this was 78.2%. The coastal areas in the State have a higher seroprevalence at 87.7%, while in urban slums too, a high rate of sero conversion at 85.3% was detected. This also means that at least 15% of people reviewed in every category of population in the State do not have immunity against COVID-19, derived either through natural infection or through vaccination. In all districts The survey had been conducted in all 14 districts, during September 2021, in a manner similar to the fourth round of ICMR’s sero survey, using two assays. All 12,865 serum samples analysed for determining seroprevalence were tested for anti-spike antibodies (IgG SARS CoV2 S1 RBD antibodies) and anti-nucleocapsid antibodies, to determine the level of immunity against COVID-19 in the community through natural infection and through vaccination. The State is yet to give the details on the separate results obtained in both categories. However, the fact remains that immunity against COVID-19 derived through natural infection is stronger than immunity from any vaccine currently in use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/826-adults-402-kids-have-covid-antibodies/article36956486.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fire in KSRTC bus terminal||A minor fire broke out at the Thiruvananthapuram KSRTC Central bus terminal complex at Thampanoor on Monday. The fire outbreak that occurred at the office of the Thiruvananthapuram Regional Transport Officer (RTO) on the fifth floor of the building raised concerns regarding the fire preparedness of the busy transit point that normally attracts several hundreds of people daily. The blaze was detected after some passengers noticed smoke billowing out from the RTO office around 7.45 a.m. While three units of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services soon reached the premises, fire force personnel faced difficulty in accessing the origin of the outbreak since the fire exit had been locked. Ten minutes later, they managed to break through three other doors to locate a burning dump of paper and other office junk in a room adjacent to the RTO office. In the absence of other fire-fighting equipment, the units managed to douse the fire using fire extinguishers. Burning waste Official sources alleged lapse on the part of the officials concerned at the RTO office in failing to ensure the fire exit remained unobstructed. Besides, the practice of burning wastes within the building could have led to a major disaster.  Lapse on the part of the officials concerned at the RTO office alleged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-in-ksrtc-bus-terminal/article36956643.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. seeks to commission Vizhinjam port next year||The State Government on Monday informed the Assembly that it hoped to commission the Vizhinjam International Seaport in November 2022. Replying to an adjournment motion moved by Congress legislator M. Vincent seeking the leave of the House to debate the delay in completion of the port, Minister for Ports Ahmed Devarkovil said the global COVID-19 pandemic, floods, rough seas, cyclone and scarcity of granite slabs had caused the two-year hold-up. The Adani group contracted to construct the port has finished 810 m of the breakwater. Lack of availability of stone had impeded the work. However, the State government had worked a way around the problem. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu has consented to supply the required granite for the port. The Centre has approved rail connectivity to the port. The government has acquired 97% of the land required for construction, he said. Daily monitoring It has appointed a former district collector to monitor work on the port. The officer sends a daily progress report to the government. The administration has initiated a countdown calendar to ensure that the Adani group meets the 2022 deadline. Mr. Vincent said the government had washed its hands of the project. It has dashed the aspirations of Thiruvananthapuram to emerge as one of the greatest port cities in the world. Vizhinjam is the gateway to Asia. It will draw business away from Colombo, Singapore and Dubai when commissioned. Mr. Vincent said the international tourism and seaport lobbies were hell-bent on scuttling the project. Vizhinjam would render Kerala an economic powerhouse. It took the LDF six years to reach out to Tamil Nadu for granite, he said. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the government should take the Adani group to task for not meeting the deadline. It should fine the company Rs. 12 lakh for each day of delay. The Oommen Chandy government had written the punitive clause into the contract agreement in 2015. The government should acquire the 18-acre portland in possession of two major private seaside resorts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-seeks-to-commission-vizhinjam-port-next-year/article36956645.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Copper plate manuscript on Sabarimala from Monson fake’||The copper plate manuscript on Sabarimala that was in the possession of alleged fake antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal has been found to be bogus, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Monday. Replying to a question by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Mr. Vijayan said the Government had at no point claimed that the article was genuine. He said a Crime Branch investigation was under way into the nefarious activities of the alleged racketeer. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has been engaged to ascertain the authenticity of the items that were in his possession. While evading questions on the suspected links Monson had with senior police officials, Mr. Vijayan said the police had provided protection based on a request submitted by the accused. The decision was found to be a normal action, considering the request was made to ensure security. Urging legislators not to adopt a prejudiced stance, he said the ongoing investigation will consider all possible angles to the conspiracy. Former State Police Chief Loknath Behera had ordered a detailed probe into the matter in a letter sent to the Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence) on December 21, 2019. The Intelligence wing had been directed to gather information on the accused following a visit that Mr. Behera had made to his house. Based on the intelligence report, Mr. Behera had formally written to the Enforcement Directorate on February 5, 2020 to seek a probe into the source of income of the accused. The Chief Minister, however, added that the circumstances of Mr. Behera’s visit to Monson’s house was unclear. On a question posed by Sajeev Joseph of the Congress regarding the alleged presence of the racketeer in CoCoN, the international cyber security and policing conference organised annually by Kerala Police, Mr. Vijayan said that his name did not appear in the participants’ register. In an apparent swipe at the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, CPI(M) legislators C.H. Kunhambu, P.P. Chitharanjan and V. Joy sought the details of any suspected links that Monson had with prominent politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/copper-plate-manuscript-on-sabarimala-from-monson-fake/article36956108.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain till Oct.15||Heavy rainfall will continue to lash several districts in the State till at least October 15, weather forecasts indicated on Monday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that several districts can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall (11.5 cm to 20.4 cm in 24 hours) this week. The districts of Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Ernakualm and Idukki have been put on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday. Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts are on yellow alert on the day for isolated heavy rainfall. Rainfall is expected to gain in strength under the influence of a cyclonic circulation persisting over the Arabian Sea region. Another cyclonic circulation over the Andaman Sea, which is also contributing to the increase in rainfall, is expected to organise into a low pressure area around October 13. In other districts Orange alerts have been issued for Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Malappuram on October 13 and 14, and Palakkad on October 13 and 15. Central and northern districts are likely to receive heavy rainfall on October 15 also, as per a 4 p.m. weather update on Monday. Fishermen have been alerted that strong winds are likely along the Kerala, Karnataka coasts and the Lakshadweep regions on October 14 and 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-till-oct15/article36956489.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online facility to apply for water connection from today||Now, apply for water supply connection without stepping out of your home. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is introducing a facility that allows prospective consumers to apply online for their connections. Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine will inaugurate the digital solution on Tuesday. Initially, the e-Tap facility will be introduced in the PTP Nagar sub-division in Thiruvananthapuram district, Palayam section under the Central Sub Division, and the Malaparamba sub-division in Kozhikode. With its introduction, applicants would no longer have to visit KWA offices at any stage of the process of obtaining a water supply connection, KWA officials said. Using the new solution, applicants can affix the scanned copies or photographs of the necessary documents along with their application. After site inspection by KWA officials, the applicant would be informed about the estimate amount and plumber via SMS. The fee required could also be remitted online. On Tuesday, the Minister will launch a slew of other digital solutions including the ‘self meter reading’ system that allows consumers to take water meter readings on their own and submit it for billing. A Finance and Accounts Management Solution (FAMS) that seeks to simplify revenue monitoring in the water utility, a materials management system and the ‘Automated Platform for Publishing Tender Notifications of KWA’ (APPT) too will be launched on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-facility-to-apply-for-water-connection-from-today/article36956644.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested with animal parts, narcotic substances, spurious liquor||The Thiruvananthapuram rural police on Monday nabbed two wildlife poachers who allegedly carried out their nefarious activities under the cover of an Ayurveda dispensary. Vikraman, 69, of Ponnamchundu, who ran the dispensary, and his helper Sanju, 45, of Kalluvettankuzhy, were arrested by the Vithura police with alleged possession of spurious liquor, narcotic substances, and parts of several vulnerable animal species. They were being closely watched for several days. A team led by Vithura circle inspector Sreejith chanced upon the cache of illegal goods during a raid at Vikraman’s house. They purportedly found 500grams of ganja, the tusks of sambar deer, Indian bison, and deer. Also recovered The investigation team also recovered elephant teeth, porcupine quills, and various parts of Grizzled giant squirrel, wild boar and peacock. Subsequently, the police seized nearly 20 litres of arrack, 100 litres of wash, brewing equipment, and nearly 30 used 9mm rifle cartridges that could have been used to hunt the animals. The team, however, could not recover the gun. According to the police, Vikraman has maintained that he used the seized items to manufacture Ayurvedic medicines. While the police have booked the duo under provisions of Abkari Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and Arms Act, the forest officials have charged them under the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-animal-parts-narcotic-substances-spurious-liquor/article36956642.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. worried about foreign takeover of CSB: Balagopal||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal told the Assembly that the Government was concerned that a foreign entity with questionable public commitment had taken control of Catholic Syrian Bank (CSB). Replying to a calling attention motion moved by Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator P. Nandakumar, Mr. Balagopal said the CSB held Rs. 35,000 crore in deposits. A bulk of the depositors were Keralites. The Centre had allowed up to 74% foreign investment in private scheduled banks. Such banks came under the purview of the Reserve Bank of India, and the State’s jurisdiction was limited. Mr. Nandakumar slammed the anti-people and pro-corporate policies of the CSB. He said a Canadian investment firm with no commitment to the State controlled the CSB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-worried-about-foreign-takeover-of-csb-balagopal/article36956650.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Kerala Govt. will increase Plus One seats’||Kerala General Education Minister V. Sivankutty on Monday assured the Assembly that the government would address the mismatch between the high number of SSLC pass-outs and the relatively limited number of Plus One higher secondary seats before the administration completed the second allotment process on October 23. However, an unconvinced Congress-led UDF Opposition walked out of the House, accusing the LDF government of depriving thousands of students of State-subsidised higher secondary education in subjects and schools of their choice. Replying to a submission moved by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Mr. Sivankutty said the government had initiated a taluk-level survey of the availability of Plus One seats. He said the government would increase the Plus One seat at the taluk level to compensate for the high number of SSLC pass-outs aspiring for further study. Mr. Sivankutty said the 85,313 students were in line for admission in the second phase of Plus One allotment. As many as 69,642 Vocational Higher Secondary and 14,654 Plus One seats were available for their taking. Mr. Satheesan said the Minister was mechanically regurgitating what bureaucrats told him. The government had only 655 merit seats available for Plus One admission. “Many children are unable to get a merit seat in a government school, and the Minister keeps parroting that the administration has an excess of 33,000 Plus One seats in public-funded institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-govt-will-increase-plus-one-seats/article36956104.ece
12 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coal crisis: no power cuts till October 19||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty on Monday said that the State was facing a shortage of roughly 300 MW in Central supply due to the coal crisis, but ruled out the possibility of load shedding or power cuts till October 19. Whether restrictions would be needed or not will be decided after a review of the power situation on October 19, Mr. Krishnankutty told reporters after holding discussions with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and B. Ashok, chairman and managing director, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). Additional purchase To make up for the shortfall, State-run KSEB has been purchasing an additional 100 MW from the open market. The the peak-hour power demand in the State stands at 3,800 MW. He urged the KSEB’s 1.3 crore consumers to use electricity judiciously, especially during the peak consumption period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coal-crisis-no-power-cuts-till-october-19/article36956488.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,996 more cases in State||The State logged 6,996 new cases of COVID-19 when 66,702 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool has dipped further and on Monday had 1,01,419 patients, with 16,576 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 10.8 % of the active cases are admitted to treatment centres. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 26,342 with the State adding 84 recent deaths to the official list on Monday ICU occupancy of COVID patients was 1,606 on Monday. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 1,058 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 1,010, Kozhikode 749, Thrissur 639, Malappuram 550, Kottayam 466, Kollam 433, Idukki 430, Palakkad 426, Kannur 424, Alappuzha 336, Pathanamthitta 179, Kasaragod 166, and Wayanad 130.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6996-more-cases-in-state/article36956493.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Paying tributes to Nedumudi Venu||The Kerala State Chalacithra Cademy will organise an event on Tuesday to pay tributes to departed Malayalam actor Nedumudi Venu. The meeting will be held at Kalabhavan theatre at 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paying-tributes-to-nedumudi-venu/article36956649.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fruit of labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fruit-of-labour/article36956581.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For Navaratri||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-navaratri/article36956491.ece
12 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 children drown in tank||Three children reportedly drowned in a tank at Eguvathanda near Malakavaripalli in Amadagur Mandal of the district on Monday. The victims were identified as Lalu Naik, Purushottam Naik, and Hemanth Naik. The bodies could not be retrieved till 6 p.m. The children had accompanied their parents to the pond in the morning when their elders were washing clothes. By afternoon when they were drying the clothes on the land nearby land, the children chose to swim in the water and allegedly drowned. While the parents did not notice the children entering the water, a shepherd saw them crying for help and alerted the parents. By the time other villagers from the hamlet, which is 2 km away came, there was no trace of the children, the police said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-children-drown-in-tank/article36956147.ece
12 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM inaugurates paediatric cardiology centre in Tirupati||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the Sri Padmavathi Paediatric Cardiology Centre on the campus of the Balaji Institute of Research, Surgery and Rehabilitation of the Disabled (BIRRD) Hospital at Tirupati on Monday. The centre, set up at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, is said to be the first-of-its-kind facility in India to treat and perform surgeries on children suffering from cardiac ailments. The facility is sponsored and administered by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The Chief Minister, who is on a two-day visit to Tirupati and Tirumala in connection with the Srivari Brahmotsavams at the Lord Venakteswara temple, arrived at Renigunta airport and drove to the BIRRD campus.  Alipiri footpath After unveiling the plaque at the new facility, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy went round the hospital as the officials apprised him of the services being offered at the 50-bed centre, saying that plans were afoot to upgrade it to a 100-bed facility soon. Later in trhe day, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy proceeded to Alipiri at the Tirumala foothills, and inaugurated the refurbished stairway (pedestrian route) to the Lord Venkateswara temple. The TTD has spent Rs. 25 crore on the project. The Chief Minister launched the ‘Go Mandiram’, a rehabilitation centre for the native breed of cows, at Alipiri and the ‘Go Thulabharam’ corner meant for devotees seeking to fulfil their vows and perform rituals. The Chief Minister and his entourage then left for Tirumala amid tight security arrangements. Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, YSRCP MLAs, MPs, leaders and key officials of the district administration and the TTD accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-inaugurates-paediatric-cardiology-centre-in-tirupati/article36956564.ece
12 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First-ever ‘Go Mandiram’ opened||Former TTD Trust Board member A.J. Sekhar, who has donated a ‘Go Mandiram’ built at a cost of Rs. 15 crore on four acres at Alipiri, said that the exclusive temple for cows, the first of its kind in the country. Mr. Sekhar said seven cows, representing the seven hills of Tirumala, would be sheltered at the temple where devotees can do ‘Pradakshina’ to fulfill their vows. The ‘Go Thulabaram’ will be a facility for devotees where they can offer any product of their choice, such as rice, wheat, nuts, and sugarcane, of a weight equal to that of a cow. A huge weighing scale made of cast iron has been installed on the campus for the purpose. A grazing ground and a cattle shed to house 30 cows are also coming up near the facility. Mr. Sekharhas agreed to maintain the temple at his own expense.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-ever-go-mandiram-opened/article36956565.ece
12 October 2021||CUDDALORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||DMK MP surrenders in worker murder case||Cuddalore Member of Parliament T.R.V.S. Ramesh (DMK), who was booked by the CB-CID police in connection with the murder of a worker in a cashew processing unit owned by him in Panikankuppam, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court I in Panruti on Monday. The CB-CID police had already arrested five persons, all employees in the cashew processing unit, on charges of murdering of K. Govindarasu, 60, of Melmampattu on September 20. Mr. Ramesh was named as the prime accused in the case and the CB-CID had launched a search for him. Police said the victim was working as a labourer in the unit for the last seven years. On September 20, Govindarasu was returning home after work when an employee frisked him and accused him of stealing 7 kg of cashew nuts. Govindarasu was allegedly assaulted on the premises and later taken to the Kadampuliyur police station for lodging a complaint. The Station House Officer noticed bleeding injuries on Govindarasu’s face and asked the complainants, Kandavelu and Shanmugam, to take him to the hospital for treatment. However, the duo reportedly took the victim back to the cashew processing unit. Govindarasu was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. The CB-CID police is likely to take Mr. Ramesh into custody for interrogation. In a statement issued before his surrender, Mr. Ramesh said that he was pained over parties indulging in “politics of vendetta” over the incident. “I am really pained that such political mileage is being sought by political parties over the CB-CID registering an FIR against me in the murder of a worker in my cashew processing unit,” he said. “As a sincere functionary of DMK and having great regard for my leader, I am surrendering. I will legally prove with evidence that the complaint against me is baseless and establish my innocence,” he said. The Station House Officer noticed bleeding injuries on Govindarasu’s face and asked the complainants, Kandavelu and Shanmugam, to take him to the hospital for treatment. However, the duo reportedly took the victim back to the cashew processing unit. Govindarasu was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. The CB-CID police is likely to take Mr. Ramesh into custody for interrogation. ‘Vendetta politics’ In a statement issued before his surrender, Mr. Ramesh said that he was pained over parties indulging in “politics of vendetta” over the incident. “I am really pained that such political mileage is being sought by political parties over the CB-CID registering an FIR against me in the murder of a worker in my cashew processing unit,” he said. “As a sincere functionary of the DMK and having great regard for my leader, I am surrendering before the court. This was only to prevent unnecessary aspersions being cast against the party. I will legally prove with evidence that the complaint against me is baseless and establish my innocence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dmk-mp-surrenders-in-worker-murder-case/article36956156.ece
12 October 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class 6 girl becomes Collector for a day||It was a memorable day for 12-year-old Deva Durga Sanjana, who was made Collector for West Godavari district, on the occasion of International Girl Child Day, on Monday. Collector Kartikeya Misra surprised Sanjana, who came to visit the Collectorate, by offering her his seat. “I never expected to sit in Collector Sir’s seat. I felt as District Collector for sometime, and wish to fulfil my dream and serve the poor. My parents are mutha workers (daily wage labourers),” the girl told the officers. Mr. Misra asked the girl about her family, her ambition and asked Sanjana to work hard to get into a good position. The local Anganwadi teachers, ANM and ASHA workers brought Durga Sanjana, who is studying sixth standard in a private school in N.R. Peta in the town, along with other students to the Collector on the eve of International Girl Child Day. “I honoured Sanjana by offering my chair on International Girl Child Day. She was very much excited to sit in my chair. I explained the duties of a Sistrict Collector,” Mr. Misra said. Later, the Collector directed the Education, Medical and Health, Women Development and Child Welfare and other department officials to take measures to improve girl child literacy and guide them on the schemes being offered by the State and Central governments for girls. Students of Maris Stella College, Vijayawada, celebrated International Day of Girl Child on the college premises. Institute principal Sr. Jasintha Quadras unveiled the poster ‘International Girl Child Day – Digital Generation is Our Generation’ on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-6-girl-becomes-collector-for-a-day/article36956146.ece
12 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP misleading courts over housing scheme, says Sajjala||Adviser to Government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has accused the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of stalling the Pedalandariki Illu scheme as part of which the government is planning to build 30 lakh houses for the families belonging to the BPL category. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has stooped to a new low by misleading the courts. It has emerged that none of the 129 petitioners had approached the court and the petition was filed by some others. We will approach the Division Bench for further orders,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy on Monday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy claimed that the State government was not violating any rules and that the housing project met the norms prescribed by the National Building Code (NBC). Plinth area Drawing comparison with previous governments, he said that the plinth area of the Indiramma houses was 215 sft, and the same for houses built during the TDP rule were only 224 sft. But, the YSRCP government is constructing houses in 340 sft area. “As per the NBC norms, the minimum plinth area required to take up construction of a house is 221.9 sft. However, the State government is building houses with more plinth area than minimum,” he said. The government is constructing houses in a site of 31.72 square metre, while the States such as Arunachal Pradesh is providing house site of only 25 square metre. The same in Uttar Pradesh is 27.1 square metre, 28.07 square metre in Odisha, 28.05 square metre in Tamil Nadu, 28.42 square metre in Jharkhand. “The TDP leaders are playing cheap politics out of jealousy. Some political forces are using courts to further their selfish goals. We hope that justice will prevail,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-misleading-courts-over-housing-scheme-says-sajjala/article36956567.ece
12 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release scholarships, reiterates former MP||Former Union Minister and Congress leader Chinta Mohan has demanded that the State government immediately release the arrears of scholarships to 80 lakh students belonging to BC/SC/ST communities. “I demand that the State government release educational scholarships to over 80 lakh students before November 1, failing which the Congress will launch an agitation. I also demand that the State government revive the BC/SC/ST corporations so that lakhs of young entrepreneurs can stand on their feet. The State has completely neglected the welfare of BC/SC/ST communities by watering down the schemes of the various finance corporations,” he told reporters here on Monday. The former Union Minister added that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would soon visit Amaravati region and interact with the agitating farmers and their families. Dr. Chinta Mohan also said that the Congress would fight for restoring Scheduled Caste status for Dalit Christians, who have been denied reservation due to their change of faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-scholarships-reiterates-former-mp/article36956148.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari river board meets to collect info on basin projects||A meeting of the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) on implementation of the board purview, scheduled from October 14 as per a gazette notification issued by the Ministry of Jal Shakti on July 15, was held here on Monday to collect the information about the Godavari Basin projects in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. However, the two States stuck to their stand taken already — AP insisting on all projects in the Basin in Telangana to be brought under the board purview, while Telangana opposing it on the ground that there is no need to hand over the management of projects which have clear water allocation. At the same time, they were unwilling to give up the management of some projects in the Basin on the pretext that they were utilising water going waste into the sea. The Telangana authorities led by Special Chief Secretary Rajat Kumar attended the meeting and suggested that river board to take up the management of only Peddavagu medium irrigation project on experimental basis to begin with. The project constructed across Peddavagu, a tributary of Godavari, near Aswaraopet in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, has over 2,000 acres ayacut in Telangana and over 13,000 acres in A.P. It is stated that the board authorities too have decided to focus to make a start by taking up the management of Peddavagu project to begin with. Telangana authorities were understood to be of the view that the success of the Peddavagu management by the river board could encourage the member States give their nod to a few more projects. On the other hand, the authorities have also brought to the board’s notice that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had already taken up the issue of postponing the implementation of purview with the Centre and they were hopeful of a positive response. The meeting was chaired by GRMB Chairman J. Chandrashekhar Iyer and was attending by officials of Telangana and A.P. as also those of the river board. The board authorities have also asked the two States to submit the DPRs of other projects mentioned in the schedules at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-river-board-meets-to-collect-info-on-basin-projects/article36956093.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shifting of staff between TS and A.P. picks pace||The process for transfer of employees allocated to both the Telugu States post bifurcation to their native States is gaining momentum yet again with the two governments giving their consent to take back employees willing to come back on a permanent basis. After the Telangana government conveyed its no objection for sending back employees of A.P. origin on a permanent basis, the Andhra Pradesh government has started the exercise of collecting information with respect to employees allotted/deemed allotted to A.P. but are interested in exercising the option to go to Telangana on a permanent basis. The A.P. government reciprocated with the issue of releasing a circular asking the employees willing to go to TS to submit their options. The HoD concerned should forward the options duly verifying and certifying the information furnished by the employees. The TS government had fixed October 15 as deadline for employees willing to go to the neighbouring State to submit their applications in prescribed format to the heads of the departments concerned while the A.P. government had set November 7 as deadline for staff willing to shift to TS on permanent basis. TS officials said the State’s offer to employees willing to shift to A.P. was unconditional but for ensuring that there are no cases or disciplinary action pending against them. The A.P. government however sought the grounds for seeking transfer to TS like spouse grounds, health grounds or others. Moreover, the number of those with TS origin but allotted to A.P. was very less compared to A.P. origin employees working in TS. In the Gazetted posts for instance, 14 employees who gave TS option were allotted to the neighbouring State against their wishes while the number in the non-gazetted category was 259. According to the information in the AP Reorganisation website, of the 19,352 gazetted cadre posts allotted between the two States, 11,364 had been allotted to Andhra Pradesh and 7,988 to Telangana. Of these, only 14 employees who opted for Telangana were posted to A.P. against their wishes. In comparison, 119 employees who opted for A.P. had been allotted to Telangana. As many as 902 employees of A.P. origin opted for Telangana and got postings here while the number of employees of Telangana origin opting for A.P. was 213.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shifting-of-staff-between-ts-and-ap-picks-pace/article36956157.ece
12 October 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man who used cobra to kill wife found guilty||The Kollam Additional Sessions Court on Monday found Sooraj, accused in the Uthra murder case, guilty of murdering his wife. The quantum of punishment will be pronounced on Wednesday. Judge M. Manoj pronounced the verdict that found Sooraj guilty under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. Despite heavy rain, the court and its premises saw a huge crowd waiting for the verdict in the sensational case. Among those present were Uthra’s father Vijayasenan and brother Vishnu while her mother Manimekhala stayed home. Sooraj was brought to the court that was chock-a-block with lawyers, media and public around noon. Since the case had generated much public outrage, tight security was provided to avoid any untoward incident. Sooraj remained impassive during the proceedings and when the chargesheet was read, the accused said he had nothing to say. Seeks death sentence Citing the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in Sushil Murmu vs State of Jharkhand (2004), Special Public Prosecutor G. Mohanraj argued that the brutal and monstrous nature of the case merited death sentence. He pointed out that the crime had shocked the collective conscience of the public and the judicial system and the society demanded death penalty irrespective of personal opinions on capital punishment. He said the crime fell into the rarest category since it was committed in a barbaric manner and its victim was a helpless woman who was murdered for personal gain and property. Uthra’s family said they were grateful to the investigating team and prosecution. “We expect Sooraj to get maximum punishment,” said Uthra’s brother Vishnu. The defence counsel urged the court for minimum punishment considering the young age of the accused. Second attempt Sooraj had used a cobra to murder his wife and it was his second attempt that took the 25-year-old woman’s life. Uthra’s body was found on May 7, 2020 at her home in Anchal. She had survived an earlier snakebite when a viper bit her. Her husband had paid Rs. 10,000 for the snakes to a handler, who later turned approver. The investigation team had conducted a post-mortem examination of the snake to confirm that the DNA of the same snake was found in the jar in which Sooraj had kept the cobra. A dummy trial was also carried out to collect scientific evidence that proved the bite was not natural but induced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-who-used-cobra-to-kill-wife-found-guilty/article36956103.ece
12 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole girl enters record book with her painting||A 16-year-old girl from Ongole, Adipudi Devisri has created a record by innovatively using coffee powder to paint a mammoth protrait of Mahatma Gandhi. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy felicitated her on Friday on her receiving a certificate from the Guinness World Records officials. He wished that she brone many more such records. The largest coffee painting measured 156.50 square metres, said Srushti Art Academy Director Timmiri Ravindra, who guided her to achieve the feat on May 7, 2019. She took to painting four years ago and decided to use the popular south Indian beverage innovatively to etch her name in the record books, she said during a brief interaction with the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-girl-enters-record-book-with-her-painting/article36956144.ece
12 October 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman kills children, tries to end life over differences with family||A 28-year-old beautician tried to end life after allegedly killing her two children on Sunday night after her family reportedly questioned her relationship with a man, at Anand Nagar in Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. P. Lakshmi Anusha allegedly hanged her children P. Chinmayi (8) and Mohit Sri Sai (6) reportedly after an argument with her family members over her relationship and tried to hang herself when her family members prevented her, the police said. Anusha runs a beauty parlour in her house and also small-scale finance business. Her husband died five years ago. Last year, she married another man who lives in West Godavari district. Last week, Anusha allegedly beat her mother for questioning her relationship. The police said the bodies of the two children were sent to Government Hospital, Rajamahendravaram, for post-mortem. A case has been registered and investigation is on. Those in distress and with suicidal tendencies can call 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-kills-children-tries-to-end-life-over-differences-with-family/article36956149.ece
12 October 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samkrg Pistons staff seek wage revision||As many as 450 workers participated in one-day strike in Samkrg Pistons and Rings Limited factory located at Arinama Akkivalasa of Srikakulam district on Monday over their pending demands. The strike went off peacefully and employees and workers staged protest at the factory premises. Samkrg pistons Trade Unions' Federation president Chapara Ramesh and general secretary R. Ananta Rao alleged that the company management had failed to implement wage revision proposals since September, 2019 although there were many deliberations and directives from the Labour Department. “Apart from wage revision, the management should pay bonus for the year 2019-2020. All the employees who completed ten years of service should be regularised immediately,” said Mr. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samkrg-pistons-staff-seek-wage-revision/article36956597.ece
12 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malayalam actor Nedumudi Venu dies at 73||In one of the memorable scenes from the 1987 film Sarvakalashala , the college student Lal, played by Mohanlal, tells the free-spirited poet Siddhan Aashan, played by Nedumudi Venu: “If Aashan leaves from here, my beat would become like that of a dead body. I want that other beat, the rhythm of life.” The scene leads into Aashan's rendition of ‘Athiru Kaakkum Malayonnu Thuduthe’ in Nedumudi's own folksy voice. That scene perhaps gives a hint of what Nedumudi Venu was to Malayalam cinema, someone with a deep link to its cultural ethos, its traditional art forms and literature, someone who imbibed the rhythm of life in Kerala's rice bowl Kuttanad and brought that sense of rhythm into his performances, which ranged from absurdly comical to deeply moving. The actor, who passed away at the age of 73 on Monday, was someone who often managed to break the boundaries of the classification of 'character actor', under which he was bracketed in. There is not one quintessential Nedumudi Venu role, for, in his heydays, he was unrecognisable from one role to the next — a lecherous, petty thief in one and a kind priest or musician in another. Born as the youngest of five sons of P.K. Kesavan Pillai and Kunjikutti Amma in Alappuzha district's Nedumudi, a backwater village that would later be more known after him rather than the other way around, Venu took to acting quite early in his life, scripting and acting in plays during his school days at the NSS School in Nedumudi and St. Mary's Higher Secondary School in Champakkulam. During his days at S.D. College in Alappuzha, he teamed up with his classmate and filmmaker Fazil for dramas and mimicry performances. Landmark plays One of those performances brought him in touch with Kavalam Narayana Panicker, in whose troupe he became a member, acting in landmark plays, including Avanavan Kadamba and Deivathar . For daily survival, he took up a part-time teaching job as well as journalism, writing stories on some of the lesser known folk artistes and on those in the lower rungs of the film world. His film debut came in G. Aravindan's Thambu in 1978. He perhaps showed the first signs of his brilliance a year later, as Chellappanshari in Padmarajan's Thakara . The kind of roles he received also has to do with the time he came into Malayalam cinema. The Malayalam middle cinema was just taking off, with Venu becoming a regular presence in the films of K.G. George, Padmarajan and Bharathan. Yet, at the same time, he remained an unavoidable component for mainstream Malayalam cinema too. He began playing characters way beyond his age quite early in his career. Padmarajan cast him in the role of a middle-aged tailor in Oridathoru Fayalvan in 1981 after seeing his performance as the old Kaalan Kaniyan in the play Deivathar . Venu was only around 30 at that time. Three years later, he played a rather naughty retired man in Priyadarshan’s Odaruthammava Aalariyam and a scheming old politician in K.G. Goerge’s Panchavadippalam . Memorable roles One of his most memorable roles came in 1981, as the eponymous thief in Padmarajan's Kallan Pavithran . The supporting role as Udaya Varma Thampuran in His Highness Abdullah in 1990 fetched him a national award. That year also witnessed Bharatham , one of the highest points of his career where he played a Carnatic vocalist who slowly loses his music to his drinking habit. Both these films as well as Chithram in 1988 had him sharing the spotlight with Mohanlal, and holding his own. The chemistry he shared with Mohanlal was also quite evident in films such as Orkkappurath and Thenmavin Kombathu . Springing surprises In later years, he was seen more in the role of elder patriarch of the family, almost getting typecast in it. But, he did continue to spring surprises, like he did in the 'Rani' segment in Aanum Pennum earlier this year, which had him a short but impactful role as a crooked old man. He also essayed notable roles in Tamil films, including S. Shankar’s Indian and Anniyan . Nedumudi Venu also wrote films, including Angane Oru Avadhikkalath , Kaattathe Kilikkoodu , Savidham , Theertham , Shruthi and Ambada Njaane! . He won five State film awards. He was also an accomplished percussionist who was equally good at Mridangam, Ghatam and Idakka, and a singer, with his renderings of poems and folk songs having a popular following, be it 'Athiru Kakkum', ‘Verumoru Moshtavaya’, ‘Aalayal Thara Venam’ and the song 'Iru Thala Pakshi' with singer Job Kurian. His grounding in music lent his acting performances in song videos that extra touch of authenticity, be it singing ‘Aandolanam’ in Sargam or playing the Mridangam in the song ‘Swamintha Paripalaya’ in Chithram . Nedumudi Venu was perhaps one of the last among a bunch of great actors, including Thilakan, Bharat Gopi and Oduvil Unnikrishnan, who were the mainstay of Malayalam cinema in the 1980s and 90s, with a wide array of unforgettable character roles. Like each one of them, Nedumudi Venu is irreplaceable.  He was also an accomplished percussionist who was equally good at Mridangam, Ghatam and Idakka, and a singer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-nedumudi-venu-is-no-more/article36956106.ece
12 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garuda Seva marks fifth day of Brahmotsavams||Religious fervour marked the auspicious Garuda Seva that was observed on the fifth day of the annual Brahmotsavams on Monday at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. Special prayers were offered to Lord Malayappa Swamy seated atop the golden Garuda Vahanam at the Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple. The deity was adorned with rare and precious ornaments like Makara kanti, a five-layered Lakshmi haram, Sahasranama haram, and a diamond-studded golden crown among other antique jewels. Earlier, the day commenced with the Mohini Avatharam in the morning. Lord Malayappa, dressed in elegant attire, was seated atop the ivory palanquin as the priests carried out the religious proceedings. Pilgrims who reached the temple town had a hassle-free darshan as only a limited number of tokens were made available. Special religious and cultural programmes were conducted at Vasantha mandapam and Nada Neerajana mandapams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garuda-seva-marks-fifth-day-of-brahmotsavams/article36956571.ece
12 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan presents ‘silk vastrams’ to Lord||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy presented ‘silk vastrams’ on behalf of the State government to the Lord Venkateswara temple on the auspicious occasion of ‘Garuda Seva’ on Monday. Dressed in traditional dhoti and white shirt besides sporting a ‘tilakam’ on his forehead, the Chief Minister arrived at the Sri Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple from where he carried the sacred ‘vastrams’ and marched to the main temple complex amid the beats of drums and nadaswaram. The Chief Minister handed over the ‘vastrams’ to the priests inside the sanctum sanctorum. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stood for about 10 minutes in front of the ‘Moola Murthy’ and paid his obeisances. The priests presented him a ‘Sesha Vastram’ of the deity. After the ‘Vedasirvachanams’ by priests, the Chief Minister released the diaries and calendars for 2022. He also took part in the ‘Garuda Seva’ at the Kalyanotsava Mandapam. The Chief Minister was accorded a warm welcome by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy,Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan and other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-presents-silk-vastrams-to-lord/article36956568.ece
12 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to visit Durga temple, offer silk robes to Goddess||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam and offer silk robes to the Goddess on Mula Nakshatram day on Tuesday. Mr. Reddy, along with a slew of Ministers, Parliament Members and other public representatives, will visit the temple at 3 p.m, have darshan of Sri Durga Devi and perform special pujas. Officials from Endowments, Police and Revenue Departments and from the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) made elaborate arrangements for the Chief Minister’s visit to Indrakeeladri. Collector J. Nivas, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Joint Collectors K. Madhavi Latha, L. Shiva Shankar and K. Mohan Kumar, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand, Devasthanam Trust Board Chairman Paila Sominaidu, Mayor Rayala Bhagyalakshmi, and temple Executive Officer D. Bramaramba visited the temple and reviewed the arrangements for Mr. Jagan’s visit. Mr. Nivas said that the government has made foolproof arrangements for the safety of thousands of devotees visiting the temple daily during the Dasara Utsavams. Separate arrangements would be made for physically challenged devotees and senior citizens who will visit the Durga temple on Mula Nakshatram day, he said. Mr. Srinivasulu said that security has been tightened in and around Indrakeeladri for the Chief Minister’s programme scheduled on Tuesday. Traffic restrictions would be imposed before and after his visit to the temple. No VIP visits to the Devasthanam would be allowed from 1 p.m. onwards till the Chief Minister leaves the temple. No darshanam will be allowed from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. for the devotees. The deity will be adorned as Sri Saraswathi Devi Alankaram on Tuesday, the temple authorities said. Meanwhile, thousands of devotees had darshan of Goddess Durga Devi, adorned as Sri Annapurna Devi and Sri Mahalakshmi Devi alanikarams on Monday. Devotees were seen visiting the temple since the dawn on the fifth day of the Utsavams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-visit-durga-temple-offer-silk-robes-to-goddess/article36956145.ece
12 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Power crisis triggered by coal shortage not limited to State’||Maintaining that the crisis in the power sector triggered by the coal shortage was not limited to Andhra Pradesh and there were many extraneous factors responsible for it, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy appealed to the critics not to politicise the issue. He claimed that the State has won plaudits for the large-scale monetary savings achieved by a slew of measures in the last two years. He blamed the national-level coal shortage for the crisis of the thermal power plants in the State and insisted that it was only a passing phase. In a press release here on Monday, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy attributed the coal scarcity to the steep increase in its price on account of the major disruptions in production and imported coal becoming costly. “It is a wrong notion that the AP-Genco was unable to make the necessary purchases owing to financial constraints. In fact, the government has paid the AP-Genco Rs. 8,000 crore in two years,” he said. Overhauling was taken up in two of the six units of the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) as they could not be made fully operational because of the coal shortage. Similarly, maintenance works are in progress in the second unit of the Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station. The fourth unit of the RTPP was shut down for want of coal. Generation at two units of the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station (SDSTPS) at Krishnapatnam was curtailed due to coal shortage. ‘No coal supply from Telangana’ Mr. Srinivasa Reddy observed that Telangana was better positioned due to the presence of coal mines in its territory but it was not supplying to Andhra Pradesh as the preference was being given to the TS-Genco plants. “Telangana has superior energy mix of thermal, gas, solar and hydel. As a result, it has coal stocks that would last for five to 15 days even as other States are struggling to keep their plants running,” pointed out Mr. Srinivasa Reddy. Further, Telangana is able to generate 2,000 Megawatt of hydel power at Jurala, Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar whereas generation by Andhra Pradesh at the Srisailam right bank is possible only when the reservoir is full. Renewable energy The Minister further said that the total installed power generation capacity of Andhra Pradesh was 18,533 MW, of which 8,075 MW was contributed by wind and solar power. “But, harnessing the potential of renewable energy has certain limitations,” he said. Andhra Pradesh is largely dependent on the Coal India Limited, the Singareni Collieries and some foreign miners for supply to its plants whose total capacity is 5,010 MW. “Of the 908 MW of gas-based power, only 100 MW could be generated due to non-availability of the fuel. The shortfall in thermal power generation in Andhra Pradesh due to coal scarcity is ranging from 1,500 MW to 1,700 MW per day. If the crisis deepens, the DISCOMs will be forced to buy power from the open market at high rates,” Mr. Srinivasa Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-crisis-triggered-by-coal-shortage-not-limited-to-state/article36956562.ece
12 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electricity charges in State highest in South India: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) at a meeting chaired by its national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, on Monday expressed concern over the power tariff in Andhra Pradesh, saying that it was the highest when compared to that of other southern States. The people were burdened with more than Rs. 36,000 crore due to hike in power charges in the State. An artificial power scarcity was created for huge commission from the purchase of power in the open market. Andhra Pradesh was power surplus when the YSRCP came to power. Before 2014, the State was ensuring a deficit of 22.5 million units. However, the TDP government had achieved the goal of generating 10,000 MW additional power,” a statement issued by the TDP said. The TDP leaders observed that the State was not in a need to purchase electricity at Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 per unit if power generation was increased. “The government and its undertakings owe Rs. 22,000 crore as dues to the DISCOMs to solve the immediate problem. In 2014, the then TDP government had solved the problem of power cuts in just three months. But, it appears there is no solution in sight now,” they said. Referring to the fixing of power meters to agricultural connections, the TDP condemned the manner in which the government was ‘tightening the noose around the necks of farmers’. “Unscheduled power cuts are dealing a heavy blow to all sections of people. There is no money for purchasing coal. The power supply to the government schools is being disconnected for not paying the bills,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electricity-charges-in-state-highest-in-south-india-tdp/article36956572.ece
12 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||International Day of Girl Child celebrated||Students and staff of Maris Stella College celebrated International Day of Girl Child on the college premises. Institute principal Sr. Jasintha Quadras unveiled the poster ‘International Girl Child Day – Digital Generation is Our Generation’ on the occasion. Members of Anti Human Trafficking Club of Social Work department of the college organised an awareness programme against trafficking and girl child abuse. Later, the students and staff took pledge and organised a human chain. Maris Stella College correspondent Sleeva, vice principals Sister Innacia, K. Anuhya, Intermediate cice principal V. Swapna and other staff participated. At a separate programme organised at Machilipatnam, RDO Khajavali, Deputy Mayor T. Kavitha, Child Development Project Officer Bhanumathi and other officers explained the need to protect the girl child. The RDO has appealed to the parents to send their daughters to schools and help the government in improving the girl child literacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/international-day-of-girl-child-celebrated/article36956657.ece
12 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. moves HC against stay on housing scheme||The State government on Monday filed a writ petition in the Andhra Pradesh High Court against the stay imposed on the construction of houses under the Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu scheme consequent upon the rejection of the house motion petition filed on October 9. The appeal is likely to be heard by a vacation bench this week. The court turned down the plea to admit the house motion moved by the government on Saturday owing to the transfer of Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami. The stay order issued by Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy on October 8 resulted in the quashing of certain guidelines contained in the G.O.Ms.Nos.99, 367 and 488. In his order, Justice Satyanarayana Murthy raised a serious concern on the allotment of one cent of land in municipal areas and 1.5 cents in villages, saying that such small sites were inadequate for housing, posing environmental, health and fire hazards. He observed that the State did not follow the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) housing and health guidelines which provided evidence-based recommendations for healthy housing and the interventions required. The Judge directed the government to form a committee comprising experts from the Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs and Health and Family Welfare to examine the issues pertaining to allotment of house sites and submit a report in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-moves-hc-against-stay-on-housing-scheme/article36956560.ece
12 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records only two COVID deaths in 24 hours||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 310 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The daily infection tally and daily toll were the lowest in the past six and a half months . The daily positivity rate was at 1.34% . The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,57,562 and 14,256 respectively. The active caseload came down to 7,258 as 998 patients recovered. Chittoor and West Godavari reported one death each while eleven districts reported zero deaths. Guntur reported 54 infections , followed by Nellore (51), Chittoor (45), Visakhapatnam (42), East Godavari (38), Krishna (28), Prakasam (23), Kadapa (7), Srikakulam (6), West Godavari (6), Vizianagaram (4), Kurnool (4)and Anantapur (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-only-two-covid-deaths-in-24-hours/article36956574.ece
12 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Anti Drug’ awareness programmes organised||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Task Force police conducted awareness programmes against drugs in Government ITI and Siddhartha Arts College on Monday. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Addl. DCP) K.V. Srinivas Raoand Government ITI Principal G. Hari Dharmendra explained the consequences if students get addicted to ganja and drugs. The SEB and police officers asked the students not to get addicted to drugs and ruin their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-drug-awareness-programmes-organised/article36956654.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 star hotels will be established in various districts, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao participated in the beach clean-up programme, organised as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, at Rushikonda Beach in Visakhapatnam on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that tourism was the maximum revenue earner after agriculture in Andhra Pradesh. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on making Visakhapatnam as the Executive Capital of the State and was according top priority to tourism promotion. There were bright chances of Rushikonda Beach attracting tourists from abroad with it bagging the ‘Blue Flag’ recently. He said that 13 star hotels would be established in the State. Joint Collector Arun Babu underlined the need for public to keep the beaches clean to attract more tourists. District Tourism Officer R. Purnima Devi, former Vice-Chancellor Ramakrishna, Regional Director of Tourism K. Ramana and AP Tour and Travel Operators Association president Vijay Mohan were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-star-hotels-will-be-established-in-various-districts-says-minister/article36956671.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhogapuram airport work will begin by this year-end, says Vijaya Sai Reddy||Putting to rest the doubts on the construction of the greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram, YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said that the works will begin by the end of this year. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, he said that except for one, all other writ petitions filed against the construction of the airport had been withdrawn by the petitioners. “We are expecting the last one to be withdrawn in the next 15 to 20 days. Once it is over, it is just a matter of few days for the works to begin,” said Mr. Vijaya Sai. He also confirmed that once the new airport came up at Bhogapuram, the one on the INS Dega will become a full-fledged defence (Naval) airbase. The INS Dega has about 208 acres of land, of which 124 acres will be retained by the Navy and the rest will be under the district administration. Six-lane road Mr. Vijaya Sai also said that the six-lane road proposed from Visakhapatnam to Bhogapuram would also be completed to improve the connectivity. This six-lane road will have a width of about 70 metre, with a jogging or walking track on one side and a cycling track on the other. The total length of the road will be about 40 km. Plans are afoot to line both sides of the road with coconut trees, he said. “Apart from this, the State government is planning to lay an elevated highway from the Visakhapatnam Port to Kailasagiri,” said Mr. Vijaya Sai. This will be a six-lane road sans pathway and cycling track. It is proposed to have a width of about 45 metre. This road will be connected to the 70-metre six-lane road to Bhogapuram near Kailasagiri. “The idea is to connect the port with the airport and a proposal with an estimate of Rs. 1,200 crore have been sent to the Union Ministry for Road Transport and Highways,”he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhogapuram-airport-work-will-begin-by-this-year-end-says-vijaya-sai-reddy/article36956576.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City of Destiny being converted into mortgage city: Jana Sena||The Jana Sena Party(JSP) activists staged a dharna under the leadership of Political Affairs Committee(PAC) member Kona Tata Rao against the mortgage of government land and public assets by the YSR Congress Party government at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC Office, here on Monday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Tata Rao alleged that in the name of making Visakhapatnam city as Executive Capital’ of the State and one of the best cities in the country, the State government was cheating the people by mortgaging public assets and playing with the future of citizens. He said that the State government has not established a single revenue-generating project in the last two-and-a-half years and wondered how it could repay the loans taken from the banks.He alleged that 13 assets and 127 acres of land in the city was mortgaged to SBI CAP Trust and Rs. 1,600 crore was taken as taken as loan. The government was in the process of mortgaging another 11 assets and 136 acres of land, he added. JSP general secretary T. Sivasankar said that the State was already converted into ‘debt-ridden A.P.’ and the ‘City of Destiny’ was being converted into ‘Mortgage city’ and it would be opposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-of-destiny-being-converted-into-mortgage-city-jana-sena/article36956668.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh probe sought into ‘rape and death’ of minor girl||The Rajaka Sangham leaders demanded re-inquiry into the rape and death of a minor girl Aganampudi here on last Tuesday. They alleged that the girl was raped and murdered and had not jumped to her death as claimed by the police. Member of the Sangham, Ram Mohan, said that the community leaders were anguished by messages on social media on the rape of the minor girl and the victim jumping to death from atop the building to avoid being detected by her father. He said that the sangham leaders met Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha on Monday and told him about the reported blood marks found in the lift of the apartment. Mr. Sinha said that the police had conducted a fair probe and asked the leaders to seek a magisterial probe, if required. Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh said the incident was giving rise to the suspicion that the girl was raped and brutally murdered. He alleged that the police were trying to sidetrack the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-probe-sought-into-rape-and-death-of-minor-girl/article36956669.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make use of Acts’||Senior Civil Judge and District Legal Services Authority Secretary K.K.V. Bulli Krishna on Monday said that laws were being strictly implemented for protection children, under the Child Right Protection Act, 2005, as part of International Girl Child Day and Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. He was speaking at a meet here .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-use-of-acts/article36956672.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surveillance by state is assault on democratic rights’||Surveillance by state is not just encroachment into the rights of privacy of an individual, but is an assault on the democratic rights of people, said Siddharth Varadarajan, the founding Editor of The Wire. He was speaking on the topic ‘The surveillance state’ at the 12th K. Balagopal memorial lecture, organised by the Human Rights Forum here on Sunday. He pointed out that right to privacy is the central part of right to life and there cannot be any infringement. There may be an opinion that the surveillance was taken up on a few individuals and it is their problem and the rest of the people need not bother about, is a wrong thinking. It should be looked into with a wider perspective, he said. Comparing the present rule of the BJP-led Union hovernment with the Emergency period, Mr. Siddharth said that since 2014, there has been more attacks on democratic institutions than ever before. While Emergency was for a period of two years, this has crossed seven years and the assaults are increasing with every passing year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surveillance-by-state-is-assault-on-our-rights/article36956153.ece
12 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector promises to solve problems of tribal people||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has agreed to look into the long-pending issues of the tribal people and work out an amicable solution. The tribal people staged a protest and submitted a memorandum to the Collector during his ‘Praja Spandana’ programme, which was organised at Narsipatnam on Monday. Scores of tribal villagers gathered at Narsipatnam on Monday and staged a protest seeking an early solution to their problem. CPI(M) District Committee leader K. Govinda Rao said that there were nine non-scheduled tribal villages, abutting the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. The tribal people had been cultivating the forest land for several years but Recognition of Forest Rights (ROFR) pattas were not sanctioned to them. Mr. Govinda Rao said that Dr. Mallikarjuna has agreed to send a team to their villages to issue Aadhaar cards to the 120 children. He agreed to talk to the APEPDCL Superintending Engineer for provision of electricity to the uncovered hamlets. He also promised to write to the State government on the VMRDA issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-promises-to-solve-problems-of-tribal-people/article36956667.ece
12 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement service rules, give promotions, demand teachers||In the absence of proper service rules, many teachers are unable to get promotions even after working for two decades, said leaders of teachers’ unions in the district. School assistants who have the necessary qualifications such as post-graduation and even Ph.Ds, are supposed to be promoted as junior lecturers. However, many junior lecturer posts are being filled on a contract basis. As per the previous rules, at least 40% of junior lecturer posts are supposed to be allocated to qualified teachers. However, this is hardly being followed in many districts despite repeated petitions, the union leaders said. Senior school assistants need to be promoted as headmasters and the headmasters have to get elevation as mandal educational officers. However, the promotions are not being taken implemented seriously by higher authorities of the education department, they alleged. Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Upadhya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam said that the implementation of service rules and filling up of vacancies would further strengthen the education system in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-service-rules-give-promotions-demand-teachers/article36956152.ece
12 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists seek stricter laws to protect girls||Several service organisations on Monday urged the government to formulate comprehensive guidelines and legislations to protect girls from harassment, early marriage, sexual abuse and other challenges. On the occasion of International Girl Child Day, Children United for Action (CUFA) of The Leprosy Mission organised a programme at Leprosy Colony in Vizianagaram to discuss the challenges faced by girls in the country. CUFA project officer T. Deepthi said that parents should ensure equality between sons and daughters in matters such as education. Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) Red Rope organised an awareness programme separately at Vedanth Junior College in Vizianagaram. IRPWA president P.K. Prakasha Rao and Red Rope president Chrysolyte Sanamanda said that steps should be taken to root out trafficking of girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-seek-stricter-laws-to-protect-girls/article36956596.ece
12 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress leaders protest against farm laws||Vizianagaram District Congress Committee president Saragada Ramesh Kumar and Vizianagaram City Congress leader Sunkari Satish Kumar on Monday said they would continue to demand the repeal of the three Farm Acts and stringent action against those responsible for the killing of protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Satish Kumar said that the farmers led a peaceful life under Congress rule but they were now forced to fight for their legitimate rights under the NDA regime.  Aam Aadmi Party Vizianagaram district convener K. Dayanand extended his support to the Congress party’s protest at the APSRTC complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-leaders-protest-against-farm-laws/article36956598.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Affiliate govt. schools to CBSE by 2024, says CM||Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told the officials to make it clear that the State government was not for forceful merger of the aided schools. The CBSE affiliation is seen as another step in the direction towards adoption of English as the medium of instruction at all government schools in the State, he said. COVID protocols As far as coronavirus pandemic was concerned, the Chief Minister ordered that all the needed precautions should be taken to keep both the students and teachers safe. The officials informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that there was no significant impact of the virus infection in schools due to various preventive measures. They said that all the teachers had been vaccinated and they were attending schools as usual. The attendance of students in August was 73%, which went up to 82% in September and 85% in October. It is now 91%. Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh, Principal Secretaries B. Rajashekar (School Education), A.R. Anuradha (Women and Child Welfare), Finance Secretary N. Gulzar, Women and Child Welfare Director Kritika Shukla, Director (Mid-day Meals and Sanitation) B.M. Diwan and Commissioner of School Education V. Chinaveerabhadrudu were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/affiliate-govt-schools-to-cbse-by-2024-says-cm/article36956577.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/todays-alankaram/article36956155.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cooking up a storm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cooking-up-a-storm/article36956674.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nearly 25 lakh skip second dose of vaccine||Around 25 lakh people in the State who were due for second dose of COVID-19 vaccination have skipped it despite completing the prescribed time interval between two doses. Of them, 15 lakh took the first dose of Covishield and the remaining took Covaxin. Disclosing these figures, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has urged the eligible beneficiaries to take the second jab. A majority of the people who skipped the second dose belong to urban districts — 5 lakh from Hyderabad,and 3 lakh each from Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. The remaining districts saw 50,000 to 80,000 people not opting for the second dose. The State has a population of 4.1 crore, of which around 2.8 crore are above the age of 18 years and eligible for COVID vaccination. According to details provided by Dr Srinivasa Rao, 2.01 crore people have taken the first dose, and 77 lakh the second dose between January 16 and October 10. In terms of percentage, 71.42% have taken the first dose. However, 25 lakh of those who have crossed the stipulated gap between two doses haven’t showed up at a vaccination centre yet. Dr Srinivasa Rao said their focus is on districts where the vaccination coverage is less than 72%. Only around 50-55% of people have taken the first jab in six districts including Jogulamba-Gadwal and Vikarabad. The highest vaccine coverage is in the three urban districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal- Malkajgiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nearly-25-lakh-skip-second-dose-of-vaccine/article36956428.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fruit market at Batasingaram from Vijayadasami||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy said the State government is committed to develop a fruit market of international standards at Koheda on the city outskirts. Layout of the new market in the 178 acre land allotted to traders is being finalised. It was decided to set up a temporary market at Batasingaram in an area spread over 11 acres and the market at the new premises would start functioning from Vijayadasami day, he said. The Minister accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues Mohd. Mahmood Ali and P. Sabita Indra Reddy, MIM MLAs Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala and Jaffer Hussain and senior officials inspected the space available at Victoria Memorial Home at Kothapet and Batasingaram on Monday. The visit follows the government’s decision to shift the existing fruit market at Gaddiannaram and construct a multi super-speciality hospital there as part of steps to improve health infrastructure. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the multi super-speciality hospital shortly. The Minister said parking, internal roads, cold storages and other facilities are being developed at Batasingaram following the requests from traders. The new market, abutting the outer ring road, would have the ambience as well as the necessary facilities enabling traders to carry out their business peacefully. The delegation examined the area and facilities available at the Victoria Memorial Home following a request made by the MIM legislators, but it was found to be short of space for operations. The MIM MLAs are understood to have accepted the government’s proposal to operate temporary market at Batasingaram as it could be reached from any part of the city through the ORR. The Minister assured that the government would cooperate with traders in all respects and is committed to ensure that they are not put to any hardship in the new venue. He later briefed the Chief Minister about the visit and its outcome, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fruit-market-at-batasingaram-from-vijayadasami/article36956417.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni plans for seamless supply of coal||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to ensure seamless supply of coal to all thermal power stations having coal linkage from it by increasing the dispatch of at least 34 railway rakes every day, including during the current festive season. The thermal power stations in Telangana, including those being run by TS-Genco, NTPC and SCCL (STPP), itself have coal stocks sufficient at least for 5 days of generation activity and it would be maintained so that there was no interruption to power generation in the backdrop of increasing demand for energy and short supply of coal at the national-level. A review meeting was held here on Monday by directors S. Chandrasekhar (Operations) and N. Balaram (Finance, Project and Planning) with the area general managers. Executive Director (Coal Movement) J. Allwyn, GM (Coordination) K. Suryanarayan, GM (Marketing) K. Ravishanker also participated in the meet virtually. The directors stated that although there were reports from across the country that the thermal power plants were facing severe coal shortage, the situation in Telangana was different with availability of sufficient coal to the thermal projects in the State. The plan was the extract (produce) at least 1.9 lakh tonnes of coal every day during October and also to increase the dispatches to at least 34 rakes a day. Scaling up production They discussed about problems, if any, in scaling up production and dispatches to meet the increasing demand. The directors told the area general managers to ensure dispatch of 7 rakes each from Kothagudem and Ramagundam-2 areas, 5 each from Yellandu, Srirampur and Manuguru, 1 each from Ramagundam-1 and Bellampally and 3 from Mandamarri every day to the thermal power stations having linkage from Singareni. The thermal power plants having coal linkage — fuel supply agreement (FSA) — with all units of TS-Genco, Muddanur of AP-Genco, Parli of Maha-Genco, Raichur KPCL of Karnataka, Mettur of TANGEDCO (Tamil Nadu), NTPC-Ramagundam and Singareni Thermal Power Plant at Jaipur (Mancherial), and the plants having bridge linkage such as VTPS (AP), Koradi (Maharashtra), NTPC-Solapur (Maharashtra), Ermarus (Karnataka) would be supplied coal as per the agreements with them. Disruptions due to rain They explained that 86% of the 1.5 lakh tonnes coal being produced every day now was being supplies to thermal power stations itself. Despite interruptions caused by heavy rains in the production this rainy season the company had supplies (dispatched) 271.46 lakh tonnes (99.24%) against 273.54 lakh tonnes target to the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-plans-for-seamless-supply-of-coal/article36956446.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma cheer all around||Days to go before the Saddula Bathukamma, the sounds of uyyala songs in all their variations rent the air. In Kukatpally, sandwiched between the Anjaneya Swamy temple and old houses with tiled roofs, women started walking in with their flower arrangements at 6 p.m. in the area known as Bathukamma Ground. As a senior citizen sat down on a chair and took the mike to sing Bathukamma songs from memory, the number of intricately arranged bouquets of flowers in the centre of the circle kept on increasing. Women dressed in festive finery with their sparkling gems and shimmering jewellery stepped out of SUVs with their flower arrangement before joining the troupe to clap, strike a rhythm with their feet and move in a circle. By 6.30 p.m., a police official stepped in and created another circle with flowers at the centre for the women to whirl, clap and sing. The traffic passing through the road had to be stopped. “This is nothing. There used to be more people coming here to play Bathukamma. Now, other colonies are organising their own events, that’s why this one is not very crowded,” said Vijayalakshmi who has been residing in the lane leading to the Bathukamma arena for the past 20 years. While Bathukamma has been celebrated with much vim and vigour after Telangana state was carved out in 2014, COVID-19 put a stop to the celebrations last year. But the easing of lockdown, rise in vaccination rates and dip in COVID cases has seen a lowering of guard. It was difficult to find evidence of mask mandate. There has been a brisk sale of flowers that form a key part of the festivities. “I took an hour to arrange the flowers. Earlier, we would release the flowers into the water of the nearby lake (IDL Lake). But now we walk away with the plate; others release the flowers into the water,” said Kavita, who had come to the place with her grandchild. Another family wheeled in a six-feet towering flower arrangement on a cycle rickshaw. But unlike the paper and plastic flower decorations parked in street corners in the city, the flower arrangements harked back to Telangana culture with tangedu (Cassia auriculate), marigolds and chrysanthemums taking the pride of place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-cheer-all-around/article36956426.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID will become endemic if no spike in cases for 3 months’||There is no threat of a COVID-19 third wave considering the current situation, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, adding that the low number of susceptible population, intensification of vaccination drive and weakening of Delta variant of coronavirus were considered to assess the current situation. ‘Get tested’ He, however, has urged people to get tested for the disease upon spotting symptoms instead of brushing it off as regular fever which could later lead to a severe infection and, possibly, death. He cited the example of a 17-year-old girl from Hyderabad who died in the third week of September after being diagnosed with an advanced stage of COVID-19. “If there is no spike in cases till the end of December, and if a strong variant of coronavirus does not emerge, then COVID will become endemic,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao at a press conference at the State Health Campus, Koti, on Monday. He said an infectious disease breaks out as a pandemic, which turns into an epidemic and then becomes endemic. Since the coming three months is packed with festivals, people have been urged to maintain COVID-appropriate behaviour. The stages COVID-19 was declared as a pandemic since many continents and countries were affected by the spread of the infectious disease more than normally expected, said B.R. Shamanna from the School of Medical Sciences, University of Hyderabad. Explaining an epidemic, he said, “Like a pandemic, several cases of an infectious disease are reported in a region rapidly over a short period time against the expected rate. However, the infection will be restricted to a region, state or a country. Cholera is an example.” A disease becomes endemic when it always exists almost all the time with a likely spike in cases on some occasions. “An example of this is malaria, which is always present in India. However, the numbers are more during and after monsoon,” added Prof Shamanna. Strong variants are not observed in an endemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-will-become-endemic-if-no-spike-in-cases-for-3-months/article36956430.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All party-meet seeks caste-wise Census||An all-party meeting conducted by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has demanded taking up Backward Classes caste-wise enumeration as part of the Census for realising social justice to the largest section of population in the country. Apart from Congress, CPI, CPI (M), Telangana TDP, TJS, PoW, CPI (ML-New Democracy), BC organisations and intellectuals attending the meeting held at Indira Bhavan here on Monday to press for caste wise Census this time. Chaired by TPCC OBC cell chairman N. Srikanth, the meeting was attended by TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy, former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah, TPCC working president M. Mahesh Kumar Goud, AICC spokesperson D. Shravan, TJS president M. Kodandaram, professors Murali Manohar, Thirumali, P.L. Vishveshwar Rao, Sandhya (PoW), Bala Mallesh (CPI), M.V. Ramana (CPI-M) and others. Stating that a misinformation campaign was being run by a section of society stating that B.R. Ambedkar was against caste-wise Census to end caste system in society, Mr. Murali Manohar said the man behind the Constitution had never made such comments. Most of the OBC communities were facing discrimination from others in society, he added. Mr. Revanth Reddy said caste-wise Census of BC communities was a must for ensuring social justice to the communities as it would also improve their representation in the law-making bodies in proportion to their population. He alleged that there was conspiracy behind not making public the integrated household survey — IHHS — (samagra kutumba survey) taken up in 2014 by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-party-meet-seeks-caste-wise-census/article36956444.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Air passenger traffic touches 62% of pre-COVID levels in Sept.||GMR Hyderabad International Airport saw an increase in the number of flights across domestic sectors with 9,000 Air Traffic Movements (ATMs) recorded and the passenger traffic too has surged in September to 9.35 lakhs domestic passengers as compared to 6.8 lakh domestic passengers in July. This is 62% of the pre-COVID levels, an official spokesperson said on Monday. In fact, the domestic passenger ‘recovery’ has been the highest amongst all metro airports during July’21 and August ‘21. There has been a gradual increase in international travellers which was 1.2 lakh or 41% of the pre-COVID level. Overall, the total passenger traffic footfall (domestic & international) reached 59% of the pre-COVID levels last month. Two days ago on October 9, GHIAL recorded the highest (domestic and international) passenger footfall of nearly 48,000 and 350 air traffic movements which is 77% of the pre-COVID numbers. The most popular domestic destination in terms of passenger volume were Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru while it has been Dubai, Doha and Sharjah among the international travellers. The average domestic passengers travelling per day rose to 31,137 in September as compared to 22,500 per day in July. The Hyderabad International Airport connects 65 domestic destinations as compared to 55 destinations in the pre-COVID period. In the last quarter, new domestic sectors like Rajkot, Srinagar and Jamnagar have been added. Among the recent additions are the Air India’s maiden direct flight to London twice a week - Monday and Friday non-stop. Also, under the UDAN initiative to bolster regional connectivity, it has launched Star Air’s maiden flight to Jamnagar. This city along with Jammu and Chandigarh recorded huge growth in passenger volume flying out from here in last couple of months. Jamnagar recorded passenger growth rate of 346% in September as compared to August while Jammu recorded 286% and Chandigarh close to 244%, respectively, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-passenger-traffic-touched-62-of-pre-covid-levels-in-sept/article36956415.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR runs 2 long-haul freight trains||The South Central Railway (SCR) broke some records by running two long-haul freight trains. ‘Trishul’ comprising three freight trains of 177 wagons and this started on October 7 from Kondapalli station of Vijayawada division to Khurda division of East Coast Railway. Second was ‘Garuda’ that ran on October 8 from Raichur of Guntakal division to Manuguru of Secunderabad division. In both cases, the long-haul trains comprised empty, open wagons for loading of coal meant for predominantly thermal power stations. Freight movement SCR is a one of the five major freight loading railways and a bulk of freight traffic moves in certain arterial routes such as Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada-Gudur-Renigunta, Ballarshah-Kazipet-Vijayawada, Kazipet-Secunderabad-Wadi, and Vijayawada-Guntur-Guntakal sections. As a bulk of its freight traffic has to pass through these major routes, it is essential for SCR to maximise throughput available across these critical sections. Long-haul trains, which are twice or multiple times longer than the normal composition of freight trains, provide a very effective solution to the problem of capacity constraints in critical sections. It also ensures saving of path across congested routes, quicker transit time, maximising throughput of critical sections and saving in crews, informed a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-runs-2-long-haul-freight-trains/article36956423.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TPCC stages silent protest against Lakhimpur Kheri killings||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) organised a ‘mouna deeksha’ (silent protest) here on Monday condemning the killing of farmers by running over them in a car allegedly by BJP leaders at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh during a farmers’ protest on October 3 and demanding removal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra from the Ministry. President of TPCC and MP A. Revanth Reddy, Congress Legislature Party Leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, working president M. Mahesh Kumar Goud, political affairs committee convenor Md. Ali Shabbir, chairman of AICC programmes in Telangana A. Maheshwar Reddy, AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Mahila Congress president Sunita Rao and others participated in the mouna deeksha staged in response to a call given by the AICC. Speaking at the end of the nearly two-hour silent protest, Mr. Revanth Reddy and other leaders said the Congress party had taken up the protest condemning allowing a free run to the farmers’ killers. The protest was not the matter of the Congress party but it was the issue belonging to 80 crore farm hands who were engaged in the exercise to feed the 140 crore population. Stating that the farming community has been protesting against the new farm laws aimed at worsening their situation when implemented, the TPCC president said the Centre was planning to mortgage the agriculture sector to two major corporates in the country. In Telangana, the ruling Telangana Rashstra Samithi (TRS) had opposed the farm laws initially but the party had backed out after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was “summoned” to Delhi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. He wondered how Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah were unmoved even after their Cabinet colleague Ajay Mishra had got four farmers mowed down by his son. He compared the farmers deaths to killing of farmers by the sand mafia in Nerella of Sircilla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-stages-silent-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-killings/article36956443.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nominations of 19 candidates for Huzurabad byelection rejected||Nomination papers of 19 candidates of Huzurabad bypoll were rejected by the Returning Officer on Monday, on completion scrutiny of the papers. With this, 42 candidates are in the fray for now with two days left for withdrawal of nominations. The 19 rejected candidates included those of AIMIM party, Indian Praja Congress, Indian Praja Bandhu party, Mana Telangana Rashtra Samithi party, All India BC, OBC party, New India party and Republic Party of India. The remaining rejected candidates filed nominations as independents. Among the rejected were three candidates whose names were similar to BJP nominee Eatala Rajender. Their names were Eppalapelli Rajender, Esampally Rajender and Emmadi Rajender. Of the remaining 42 candidates, Gellu Srinivas Yadav, Eatala Rajender and Balmoor Venkat Narsing Rao were from the recognised TRS, Bharatiya Janata and Congress parties. Seven others are from registered political parties and there are 32 are independent candidates. Even from the independent candidates, it is said that some are likely to withdraw their nominations on the last day for which is Wednesday. A clear picture of who are in fray would emerge by Wednesday evening, the authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nominations-of-19-candidates-for-huzurabad-byelection-rejected/article36956448.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ten members of Deoghar gang held||Ten members of Deoghar gang from Jharkhand were arrested by Rachakonda cyber crime police for their involvement in various cases. The accused are Jameel Ansari (26) from Margomunda, Barzahan Ansari (32) from Kasmatand, Jamtara, Akhlak Hussain (27) from Margomunda in Deoghar and seven others. Police said that the accused formed a gang and used to exchange knowledge and techniques to commit cyber frauds to make a quick buck. They purchase SIMs from different sources, from different places, and post the mobile numbers as “customer care numbers” of G-Pay, PhonePe, and various e-commerce shopping sites, banks, online services etc, on Google. “If any customer contacted the said phone numbers by searching on Google to get their issues resolved, this is where the accused persons impersonate as customer care representatives of the service providers, and to refund their amount/solve their problem and siphon of the victims' money, they used to tell the victims that there is a cashback offer and send them notifications and confirm their (victims) PhonePe/G-pay/Paytm numbers,” they said. Later, they instruct the customers and make them open new G-pay, Phonepe, Paytm apps in their mobile phones and insist they enter their bank details, UPI PIN details etc. and fraudulently transfer their (victims) amounts from their respective bank accounts and cheat them. “They also force the victims to install apps such as Team viewer, Quick Support, AnyDesk in their mobile phones and tactically gain the remote access to their mobile phones and transfer huge amounts into their bank accounts which are procured fraudulently and in turn transfer again into e-commerce wallets/Paytm accounts, and shared money among them,” the officer said. They said that the accused were also involved in impersonation of bank employees, inducing people to download remote access apps, creating fake websites on popular e-commerce platforms and making them visible to potential victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ten-members-of-deoghar-gang-held/article36956416.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||183 more test positive||Telangana recorded 183 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total to 6,68,070. While 40,354 samples were put to test, results of 1,517 were awaited. The new cases included 53 from Greater Hyderabad region, 20 from Karimnagar, and 10 each from Khammam and Medchal-Malkajgiri. No case was detected in five districts, including Vikarabad and Narayanpet. Two more patients died, taking the toll to 3,932. Of the total cases, 4,196 were active as of Monday evening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/183-more-test-positive/article36956432.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day after poll defeat, Prakash Raj resigns from MAA||Noted actor Prakash Raj resigned from his primary membership of Movie Artistes Association (MAA), a day after his defeat to Manchu Vishnu in the association election on Sunday. Immediately after declaration of results, actor Nagababu also resigned from his membership in support of Prakash Raj. Referring to his Kannada background, he said he came to Telugu film industry as a guest and will remain so as per the wishes of some seniors who raised his nativity issue in the elections. He said elections were fought on regional basis and it was unfortunate he was not born in a Telugu-speaking family. He added he was breaking his 21-year association with MAA, but will continue his bond with the audience of Telugu films and not change his mind about acting in Telugu films due to the defeat. Thanking Nagababu, he said one vote would not have made any difference to the outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/day-after-poll-defeat-prakash-raj-quits-maa/article36956433.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma celebrated in UK with great fanfare||Telangana Association of United Kingdom (TAUK) held grand celebrations of Chenetha Bathukamma and Dasara in London and dedicated the celebrations to the National Health Service (NHS) staff and COVID-19 warriors. The celebrations were attended by Indians across UK apart from British MPs Virendra Sharma and Seema Malhotra along with Houslow Mayor Bishnu Gurung. TAUK vice-president Shusmuna Reddy said the event was also dedicated as Chenetha Bathukamma and Dasara to get wider support for handlooms in tune with Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s idea. Meanwhile, the Telangana NRI Forum in London conducted Bathukamma and Dasara celebrations that was attended by a large number of Telugu women carrying beautiful floral arrangements and played around them, singing traditional songs. Rajesh Agarwal, deputy mayor of London, who was the chief guest, lauded the promotion of Indian culture and the promotion of the arts, worship of nature and of flowers as deities. The programme started with the Durga puja around the Jammi tree specially brought from India followed by Bathukamma, Katte Kolatam and an array of cultural activities. Tirumala Thirupathi Devesthanam laddu prasadam was distributed among the families of all the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bathukamma-celebrated-in-uk-with-great-fanfare/article36956603.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Corruption in PACS in Siddipet, Jangaon alleged||A delegation of all parties in Siddipet and Jangoan constituencies submitted a representation to the Civil Supplies Commissioner and the Vigilance and Enforcement Directorate seeking an inquiry into the ‘corrupt practices’ of local TRS leaders in the paddy purchase by Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies and IKP centres in Siddipet and Jangaon districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corruption-in-pacs-in-siddipet-jangaon-alleged/article36956607.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Key sections completed to bring Bengaluru closer||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced the completion of the key double line with electrification of the 26.4 km Gooty-Kalluru route as a part of Gooty-Dharmavaram doubling project, bringing Bengaluru and other parts of the south closer to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Doubling and electrification of Gooty-Dharmavaram project of 90 km is being executed by Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) at a cost of Rs. 636.38 crore with 20 km between Kalluru and Taticherla as also 11 km between Chigicherla and Zangalapalli completed already. With the last advancement in work, a lion’s portion of the project or around 57.4 km is completed (65% of the total length). Once all the sections are doubled and electrified, it will ease the congestion on this important saturated single line section and enable railways to run more passenger and freight trains. It is also expected to boost the socio-economic status of this region and improve the rail connectivity for the cement industries located in this vicinity for quick transportation of goods. Besides, it will strengthen the rail network between southern states and towards Mumbai, informed SCR chief PRO Ch. Rakesh.  It is expected to improve rail connectivity for the cement industries in this vicinity for quick transportation of goods. Ch. Rakesh, Chief PRO, SCR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/key-sections-completed-to-bring-bengaluru-closer/article36956422.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genome Foundation, LVPEI sign pact||To foster collaborative research, training and knowledge sharing, an MoU was signed between Genome Foundation and L.V. Prasad Eye Institute. The institutions will share expertise and resources to expand capabilities in ophthalmic clinical genetics, molecular genetics, cytogenetics, forensic testing services, research, diagnostics, counselling, training, education and other similar services. The overarching aim is to develop facilities for research, diagnostics and counselling, ophthalmic clinical and other services that will greatly benefit patients suffering from vision impairment and blindness. The focus will be on coming up with better, advanced and economical treatment plans to treat basic and complex ocular disorders, said a press release. The MoU was signed by C. Rangarajan, chairman-Board of Directors of Genome Foundation, and Gullapalli N Rao, chair-Board of Trustees, LVPEI. “Our focus is on developing Institutes of Excellence in the next 20 years, and one such area is genetics in eye care and ophthalmology,” said Dr Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genome-foundation-lvpei-sign-pact/article36956419.ece
12 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR calls on China Jeer Swamy at hi ashram||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday called on Chinna Jeer Swamy at his ashram in Muchintal. He was received with religious honours. Later, he planted a tree on the premises and had lunch in a common dining hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-calls-on-china-jeer-swamy-at-hi-ashram/article36956450.ece
12 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||MLA’s role in podu land beneficiary selection opposed||Vociferously opposing the State government’s move to entrust the responsibility of selecting the eligible beneficiaries for sanction of pattas for podu lands with the legislators, the Telangana Girijana Sangham (TGS) has reiterated its demand for strict implementation of the Forest Rights Act, 2006, by scrupulously following its provisions in letter and spirit. In a statement, TGS district general secretary Bukya Veerabhadram has charged the State government’s move to vest the responsibility of sanctioning the pattas for podu lands to the MLAs as tantamount to undue political interference “undermining” the spirit of the FRA and interests of tribals and other traditional forest dwellers. Action plan “The State government should desist from the detrimental move and announce a time-bound action plan to re-examine the claims of tribals and other forest dwellers which were rejected earlier without citing any specific reasons, receive applications for podu lands and resolve the podu land issues by following the due process of law diligently,” he said. Referring to a slew of agitations including the recent “Sadak Bandh” organised by the aggrieved podu farmers for their traditional rights under the FRA, Mr. Veerabhadram said the State government is duty bound to implement the FRA to protect the land rights and livelihood of STs and other traditional forest dwellers. He said any move to allow “political interference” in the implementation of the hard-won key piece of legislation would be strongly opposed by launching yet another agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlas-role-in-podu-land-beneficiary-selection-opposed/article36956452.ece
12 October 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Man hit by Speaker’s escort vehicle dies||In a shocking incident, a man crossing the road died after he was knocked down by a speeding police vehicle in the convoy of Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on NH-44 near Kallakal of Medak district on Monday afternoon. According to official sources, the convoy of the Speaker was on its way from Hyderabad to Banswada in Kamareddy to attend an official function. A police escort vehicle hit 60-year-old native of Chegunta and worker in a private factory Narasimha Reddy. Mr. Srinivas Reddy was in another vehicle but got down and ensured that the grievously injured victim was shifted to a nearby hospital, where the victim died while undergoing treatment. A statement from the Speaker’s office later in the day said it was unfortunate that a man died in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-hit-by-speakers-escort-vehicle-dies/article36956451.ece
12 October 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Sarpanch resigns, blames Nalgonda MLA||Sarpanch of a village in Thipparti mandal in the district has put in her papers, allegedly “due to harassment” at the behest of Nalgonda Legislator K. Bhupal Reddy. Gade Sandhya, village leader of Yellammagudem, met the administrative officer, as District Collector Prashant J. Patil was unavailable at the time, and submitted her resignation. Ms. Sandhya also alleged: “the local legislator had instructed all the officers at the mandal general body not to cooperate with me, and at the gram sabha at the orders of MLA I was manhandled by the police.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sarpanch-resigns-blames-nalgonda-mla/article36956440.ece
12 October 2021||Suryapet,TELANGANA||S. Rajendra Prasad takes charge as Suryapet SP||S. Rajendra Prasad, a senior non-cadre police officer, on Monday took charge as the District Superintendent of Police, after transfer of earlier incumbent R. Bhaaskaran last week. Mr. Rajendra Prasad, soon after completing the joining formalities, went and paid tributes to Maha Vir Chakra Col. Santosh Babu’s statue. In his first address to the district police later, he said crime prevention through a public-police partnership will be the priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/s-rajendra-prasad-takes-charge-as-suryapet-sp/article36956441.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Devotion above all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/devotion-above-all/article36956438.ece
12 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||1,900 water conservation structures built in Gurugram||Water conservation and rainwater harvesting structures have been constructed at 1,900 places and 68 groundwater wells have been revived across Gurugram district under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan’s “Catch The Rain” programme. It was revealed by Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg during a review meeting through videoconferencing, chaired by Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources Department. Dr. Garg said as many as 2,113 places were identified for construction and the work was completed at 1,900 places. Work for modernisation of water tanks and other traditional waterbodies was completed at 18 of the 21 places identified. Similarly, 68 groundwater wells were revived, 35 watersheds developed, and more than five lakh saplings planted as part of the scheme to conserve rainwater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1900-water-conservation-structures-built-in-gurugram/article36956317.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. begins spraying bio-decomposer in farmlands||The Delhi government on Monday started spraying bio-decomposer solution in farmlands to decompose the stubble left after the harvest. A bio-decomposer capsule, developed by Pusa Institute, is made into a solution through a week-long process, and according to the government, this solution can decompose straw and stubble into manure. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the number of farmers, who are getting the solution sprayed in their fields, has doubled as compared to last year. “We have received applications for about 4,000 acres of land as opposed to 2,000 acres last year. But those farmers who haven’t applied yet will be issued a contact number (9643844287) to avail of this service free of cost. Farmers can register themselves and we will send our teams to the farms and help with the process,” the Minister said. Mr. Rai said the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) had asked the Delhi government to get a third-party audit of the process done and they did it with a Central agency. “We submitted a report to the CAQM, and also approached the Union Environment Minister and the Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab governments (to use the bio-decomposer),” he said. The Delhi government sees the bio-decomposer as a solution to stubble burning and has been urging other States to adopt it. The Minister said that problems caused by stubble burning cannot be solved without the combined effort as smoke has started entering Delhi’s airspace. “I appeal to the farmers to utilise the bio-decomposer, plough the field with a rotavator, and supply ample water so that the stubble can decompose and be converted into healthy compost,” Mr. Rai said.  Those farmers who haven’t applied yet will be issued a contact number (9643844287) to avail of this service free of cost Gopal RaiEnvironment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-begins-spraying-bio-decomposer-in-farmlands/article36956314.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Desh Ke Mentor’ to guide govt. school children on career choices||The Delhi government on Monday launched a mentorship programme for children studying in Classes IX to XII in its schools. Under the ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme, students will be mentored by volunteers from across the country for 10-15 minutes daily on issues ranging from career choices to teenage-related concerns. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, while launching the initiative, said that through this programme children will get an elder brother, friend or sister with whom they will be able to share everything, and the youth, who want to become mentors, will be able to contribute to nation building by helping in guiding the future of the country. ‘Non-judgemental guide’ Speaking on the reason for starting such a programme, Mr. Kejriwal said when children reach Class IX, they develop several emotional and physical needs as they have to deal with a lot of pressure from peers, family and siblings, besides studies and choosing a career. “We want these children to get a non-judgemental helping hand and guiding light. Someone with whom the child can talk without any inhibitions. It is human nature that when you talk to someone, share your problems with them, you are inclined to feel cathartic. It helps one get out of a dark mindset,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The government is encouraging people in the age group of 18-35 years from across the country to join the initiative and they can do so by registering on an app developed for the purpose. “In our families, we see elder brothers and sisters guide their younger siblings. If we replicate the same model on the national level, the whole country will become a big family. People will start seeing beyond the fault lines of caste and creed, they won’t see the religion of the person they are talking to,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said students in Classes IX-XII need to decide what they should pursue in the future. During this time, if someone holds their hand without judging them and imposing their dreams on them, it will result in better decision-making. “If someone wants to join the police service, then there should be someone to guide them on the process and research for them as a mentor. If parents are confused on how to help their children choose a career, there sho-uld be a mentor to guide the students in taking the right decision,” Mr. Sisodia said. The mentorship programme will be of two to six months, with the first two months as compulsory module and the remaining four as optional. Mentors from various professional and academic backgrounds will guide two-five students each. They will help the students in their overall personality development by sharing their knowledge, skills and expertise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/desh-ke-mentor-to-guide-govt-school-children-on-career-choices/article36956306.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||NTPC supplying only half of agreed electricity, says Minister||NTPC Limited is supplying only half the committed quota of electricity to Delhi, according to authorities. “There is a power crisis in the country and the Central government should consider it a problem. Only then can its solution can be found,” said Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday. The Minister said the Delhi government has most of its power purchase agreements with NTPC but it has cut power production at its plants by 50%. “According to the agreement, 85% of the time in a year NTPC has to provide complete power supply and 15% of the time it can go up to 55%. But this cannot be done for all the plants at the same time. Usually, NTPC gives about 4,000 MW of electricity to Delhi, but now it is not able to supply even half of it,” Mr. Jain said. The Minister said if there is no power crisis, as the Central government is claiming, then why are there power cuts across the country. “Why did Uttar Prdesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath write a letter to the Centre?" he asked. “The situation is very critical. Several Chief Ministers have written to the Centre about it. All are trying together to improve the situation,” Mr. Kejriwal said on Monday, according to agency reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ntpc-supplying-only-half-of-agreed-electricity-says-minister/article36956319.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||DCPCR appeals to Baijal to open schools from nursery to Class VIII||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Monday urged Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to open schools for children from nursery to Class VIII in a staggered manner. The commission said it has received complaints from different quarters on the matter and added that school closure is affecting about four million children in the city. “Clearly, children not attending schools cannot keep them safe since the adults are moving about and returning home. There appears to be little evidence about how school closures can benefit the children when all other sectors are open. It therefore remains unclear as to what extra vulnerability would children experience by coming to school,” DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu said in the letter to Mr. Baijal. The pandemic has caused serious learning losses for children of all classes, Mr. Kundu said. “For example, 17% more Class I students could not read letters in 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20, according to the Annual Status of Education Report 2021 by Pratham Education Foundation... About 80% of children aged 14-18 years report lower learning levels as opposed to when schools were open. About 92% of children on average have lost one specific language ability as compared to the previous years,” the letter said. The DCPCR also said that online education is inadequate. “The commission urges the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to issue necessary directions for the opening of schools and anganwadis,” the letter added.  Children not attending schools cannot keep them safe since adults are moving about and returning homeAnurag KunduDCPCR chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcpcr-appeals-to-baijal-to-open-schools-from-nursery-to-class-viii/article36956309.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will organise grand Chhath puja with help of civic bodies, says BJP||The Delhi BJP on Monday said the “city government’s decision to ban Chhath festivities was foolish” and accused the government of being anti-Hindu and anti-Poorvanchali. State BJP president Adesh Gupta declared that the festival will be celebrated in a grand manner and the party-led municipal corporations will make arrangements for it. “It is rather strange to impose a ban on Chhath Puja celebrations when markets, shops and cinema halls and even swimming pools in Delhi are open. If the Kejriwal government does not review its decision, the party along with Poorvanchalis will stage a massive protest outside the Chief Minister’s residence,” Mr. Gupta said. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in an order last week prohibited Chhath Puja celebrations at public places in view of the COVID-19 situation. Mr. Gupta alleged that AAP does not leave a chance to humiliate Poorvanchalis and the BJP will celebrate Chhath keeping in mind the COVID-19 guidelines. “The BJP demands the Kejriwal government to write a letter to the DDMA seeking permission to celebrate Chhath,” Mr. Gupta said. Reacting to the BJP’s allegations, AAP’s spokesperson said: “The health and lives of people are most important to us. We feel sad that the BJP is playing dirty politics over it. The party has no concern for the lives of the people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-organise-grand-chhath-puja-with-help-of-civic-bodies-says-bjp/article36956315.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||North body bans non-segregated waste collection from Nov. 1||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday announced that it will impose a complete ban on the collection of non-segregated waste — from households and commercial establishments — from November 1. North Corporation Commissioner Sanjay Goel said the civic body will paste “red stickers” on the premises of regular defaulters. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Goel said the penalty for defaulters will be on a “daily basis”. “There is not much criminality in the matter. Monetary penalty is a provision but nobody can afford to pay it all the time, so I think people would start adhering to the norms. Unless we attain a particular saturation level in waste segregation, the red stickers for defaulters will continue.” Mr. Goel said the move was being made in order to achieve the target of “100% segregation at source”. Furthermore, deployment of workers at “dhalaos” has been ordered to prevent the public from dumping non-segregated waste. “Under the Solid Waste Management Rule (2016), waste segregation is important and Swach Bharat 2.0 also says the same. One of the important tasks is to segregate the waste at the doorstep,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/north-body-bans-non-segregated-waste-collection-from-nov-1/article36956310.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Ganja worth Rs. 1 crore seized, three arrested||Three men were arrested in west Delhi’s Naraina on Monday and 661 kg of ganja worth around Rs. 1 crore in the international market was seized from their possession. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said the accused have been identified as Rafique Khan, 22, Raj Kishore, 42, and Chetan Gatan Khara, 36. The police said on September 29, information was received that two persons would come in a truck and cross Naraina to supply ganja. The truck was laden with wooden logs and there was a secret chamber under the logs from where 661 kg of ganja was seized. The duo disclosed that the ganja was ordered by one Shera and his partner Bahadur Singh. Shera purchased the contraband from one Khara in Odisha. Raids were conducted in Koraput and Khara was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ganja-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-three-arrested/article36956308.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC bans cross-gender massage at spa centres||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday announced the implementation of a new licence policy for spas and massage centres falling under its jurisdiction. Approved by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, the corporation’s press note stated that “cross-gender massages” will not be permitted and that male and female spa centres shall be in different sections”. Plea in court Previously, a plea challenging the Delhi government’s guidelines on banning cross-gender massage services was filed in the Delhi High Court. The petitioner, Association of Wellness Ayurveda & Spa, said that cross-gender treatment has been “part of the traditional massage practices” and assuming prostitution to be only in the “heterosexual domain” is illogical. “Permission will be granted in areas coming under the category of commercial, local commercial, notified commercial and mixed land use. In residential areas, new spa/massage centres will not be allowed,” the press note stated, adding that spas and massage centres will be allowed to operate “only between 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.”. Last month, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation had also banned cross-gender massage at spas under its jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-bans-cross-gender-massage-at-spa-centres/article36956312.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Centre asked to withdraw order on ration scheme||Delhi’s Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain on Monday requested Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal to withdraw an order preventing the implementation of the city government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme. The Centre had on October 8 written to the Delhi government’s Food and Civil Supplies Department, saying the doorstep scheme is against the provisions of National Food Security Act 2013, and therefore, “should not be implemented”. In a letter to Mr. Goyal, Mr. Hussain also alleged that the Delhi government is being meted out “discriminatory treatment” as the other State governments have already implemented such schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-asked-to-withdraw-order-on-ration-scheme/article36956311.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi High Court gets two new judges||Two new judges of the Delhi High Court were sworn in on Monday, taking the working strength of the court to 31 against a sanctioned strength of 60. Chief Justice D.N. Patel administered the oath of office to Justices Yashwant Varma and Chandra Dhari Singh, who were transferredto Delhi from the Allahabad High Court. Justice Varma was elevated as additional judge of Allahabad HC in October 2014 and took oath as permanent judge in February 2016. He graduated in law from Rewa University and got enrolled as an advocate in 1992. Justice Singh was appointed as additional judge of the Allahabad HC in September 2017 and took oath as permanent judge in September 2019. He graduated in law from Delhi University in 1993 and got enrolled as an advocate in 1994. The Supreme Court collegium had recently recommended the transfer/retransfer of 17 High Court judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-high-court-gets-two-new-judges/article36956307.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||One held for killing visually impaired man||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing a visually impaired man after throwing a stone at him in Outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri, the police said on Monday. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the accused has been identified as Imran, a carpenter who is a drug addict. The police said that on on October 6, information was received that a person threw a stone at a visually impaired person. Shyam, who used to run a kiosk, was rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where he later succumbed to his injuries. It was revealed that Imran collided with Shyam and fell on the road. He got furious, picked up a stone and hit Shyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-held-for-killing-visually-impaired-man/article36956318.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. notice will make DTC contract workers jobless’||Leader of the Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday said that thousands of DTC and cluster buses’ contract workers will be unemployed as the city government has issued a notice regarding optimal utilisation of employees. “The contract employees working with the DTC are being removed from their jobs. A notice has been issued to terminate the services of about 6,000 contract employees working in cluster buses,” Mr. Bidhuri said.  He said the BJP will stand with these workers and if their jobs are not restored, they will support them in all agitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-notice-will-make-dtc-contract-workers-jobless/article36956316.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||No masks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-masks/article36956322.ece
12 October 2021||Tehran,||Ready for strategic partnership agreement with Russia, says Iran||Iran is ready to sign a strategic partnership with Russia, mirroring one concluded early this year with China, the Foreign Ministry said on Monday. “The initial arrangements of this document, entitled the Global Agreement for Cooperation between Iran and Russia, have been concluded,” said Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh. “We are in the process of finalising diverse clauses of the document, and we will send it to Moscow,” he told reporters. “In recent years, it has become necessary to improve relations between Iran and Russia and to concentrate on strategic partnerships,” he added. “Between Iran, China and Russia, the eastern axis is emerging.” He added that Tehran hopes the document will be signed in the coming months. Iran in March concluded a 25-year strategic and commercial cooperation agreement with China after several years of talks. And in mid-September Iran was admitted to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, led by Russia and China. Meanwhile, Iran on Monday called on European countries to guarantee an existing nuclear deal that the parties are set to revisit during a planned resumption of talks in Vienna. “The European capitals, including Berlin, have been passive spectators,” Mr. Khatibzadeh told reporters. “We therefore expect all parties, when they arrive in Vienna, to know that they have no choice but to adhere to their obligations under the nuclear deal,” he said during his weekly news conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ready-for-strategic-partnership-agreement-with-russia-says-iran/article36956045.ece
12 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Post-recovery, Nasheed returns to Male||Former President and Parliamentary Speaker of the Maldives Mohamed Nasheed on Monday returned to capital Male, five months after he survived an assassination bid, following which he was flown to Germany to undergo treatment for the grave injuries. President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih received the Speaker, also his party colleague, at the airport, signalling a thawing of tensions between the leaders, after Mr. Nasheed criticised the President for “pandering to religious extremists”. Mr. Nasheed’s return was kept under wraps due to persisting security concerns, according to sources in Male. “It is nice to be back home,” he told The Hindu from Male on Monday night. The explosion on May 6, near Mr. Nasheed’s residence took the Maldives and the world by shock. Maldives police termed the incident a “terror attack” and attributed it to a local religious extremist group that sympathises with the Islamic State. Police have arrested some key suspects in the case and are continuing the probe with assistance from the Australian Federal Police and American investigators. Mr. Nasheed openly condemns religious extremism and the attack on him was widely seen as a chilling message to critics. Months into his recovery, Mr. Nasheed issued a statement asking President Solih to “course-correct before it is too late”. The Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) to which both President Solih and Mr. Nasheed belong, was on the verge of a split amid growing differences between the two factions backing them, especially over the party’s response to religious extremism. However, the party has stayed together until now. Maldivian media showed Mr. Solih receiving Mr. Nasheed with a warm embrace, even as scores of supporters waited to greet Mr. Nasheed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/post-recovery-nasheed-returns-to-male/article36956040.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||HK’s largest pro-democracy party shuns ‘patriot only’ poll||Hong Kong’s largest pro-democracy party will not contest the upcoming “patriot only” legislature elections after none of its members met the party’s own application deadline on Monday. The decision means the December polls have been effectively boycotted by the city’s pro-democracy Opposition with even the movement’s most moderate wing deciding it is not worth taking part. The Democratic Party’s membership had been split on whether to continue with Hong Kong’s political process as authorities crack down on dissent in response to huge and often violent protests two years ago. On Monday, the party said none had applied from its membership by the deadline. One member, veteran Tiananmen Square activist Han Dongfang, previously said he wished to run but did not manage to secure enough nominations within the party. Hong Kong’s government has been pushing the narrative that the once outspoken city remains politically pluralistic even as scores of Opposition figures are jailed and disqualified from standing for office. Most of Hong Kong’s major pro-democracy parties have either disbanded or seen their leadership decimated by arrests and prosecutions. Under an overhaul imposed by Beijing earlier this year, only those deemed “staunch patriots” are allowed to take part in politics and anyone standing for public office must be vetted for national security risks. The overhaul has also further reduced the number of directly elected seats in the city’s legislature from half to less than a quarter. The rest will be appointed by reliably pro-Beijing committees and special interest groups that have been vetted for their political loyalty. Beijing is sensitive to any move that might cast doubt on its new “patriots only” political model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hks-largest-pro-democracy-party-shuns-patriot-only-poll/article36956038.ece
12 October 2021||Baghdad,||Iraq says it has arrested Islamic State’s financial chief||Iraq said on Monday it has detained a top leader of the Islamic State group and a longtime al-Qaeda operative in a cross-border operation. Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi tweeted the news, identifying the man as Sami Jasim, who oversees the Islamic State’s financial operations and served as the deputy leader of IS under the late Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Mr. Al-Kadhimi described it as “one of the most difficult” cross border intelligence operations ever conducted by Iraqi forces. Jasim has a $5 million bounty on his head from the U.S. State Department’s Rewards for Justice programme, which describes him as having been “instrumental in managing finances for IS terrorist operations.” “While serving as IS deputy in southern Mosul in 2014, Jasim reportedly served as the equivalent of IS’s finance minister, supervising the group’s revenue-generating operations from illicit sales of oil, gas, antiquities, and minerals,” the website says. Iraqi intelligence officials said that Jasim was detained in an identified foreign country and transported to Iraq few days ago. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak of the operation on the record. Jassem worked with al-Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian militant who was killed in a U.S. airstrike in Iraq in 2006. He assumed various security positions in Iraq, and moved to Syria in 2015, after the Islamic State group, an al-Qaeda offshoot, declared its caliphate in 2014 and became the deputy of al-Baghdadi, the extremist group’s leader. Al-Baghdadi was killed in a U.S.-led raid in northwestern Syria in 2019, under former U.S. President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraq-says-it-has-arrested-islamic-states-financial-chief/article36956046.ece
12 October 2021||Tunis,||Tunisia gets a new government, with record number of women||Tunisia got a new government on Monday after more than two months without one, with the Prime Minister naming her Cabinet, including a record number of women. The ministerial appointments announced by Prime Minister Najla Bouden filled a vacuum that had persisted since President Kais Saied abruptly dismissed his former Cabinet and suspended Parliament 11 weeks ago, concentrating all executive powers. His critics and constitutional lawyers have likened his actions to a coup. Ms. Bouden, named September 29 by Mr. Saied as Tunisia’s first female Prime Minister, said during the swearing-in ceremony of her new Ministers that their main priority would be fighting corruption. The new Cabinet has an unprecedented 10 women, including the PM. They include Leila Jaffel, new at the Ministry of Justice, and Sihem Boughdiri Nemseya, reappointed as Finance Minister. Mr. Saied had previously promised a new government for July. But he then partially suspended the Constitution on September 22 and gave himself the power to rule by decree. He has argued that pandemic-hit Tunisia is in crisis and that the measures are temporary. Opponents termed his move a coup but many Tunisians, sick of a political class seen as corrupt and incompetent, intially welcomed it. Protests for and against Mr. Saied have attracted thousands of people in recent weeks. The President on Monday said he would “make efforts in the coming days” to launch a “genuine national dialogue” involving Tunisians from across the country. Feminist groups have hailed Ms. Bouden’s nomination as a step forward for women in Tunisia, seen as a pioneer for women’s rights in the Arab world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tunisia-gets-a-new-government-with-record-number-of-women/article36956049.ece
12 October 2021||Beijing,||Key UN biodiversity summit opens in China||A key UN summit tasked with protecting biodiversity opened in China and online on Monday, as countries meet to protect ecosystems and prevent mass extinction weeks before the COP26 climate conference. Beijing, the world’s biggest polluter, has sought to position itself in recent years as a world leader on environmental issues after Washington’s withdrawal from international commitments under former President Trump’s administration. The online summit — setting the stage for a face-to-face meeting in April — will see parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) discuss new targets for protecting ecosystems by 2030. Up for debate are the “30 by 30” plan to give 30% of land and oceans protected status by 2030 — a measure supported by a broad coalition of nations, as well as a goal to halve the use of chemicals in agriculture and stop creating plastic waste. “While there have been some success and progress, there have not been the breakthroughs needed to halt the ongoing loss of plant and animal diversity on earth,” CBD executive secretary Elizabeth Maruma Mrema warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/key-un-biodiversity-summit-opens-in-china/article36956037.ece
12 October 2021||Islamabad,||U.S. to provide aid to Afghanistan, say Taliban||The U.S. has agreed to provide humanitarian aid to a desperately poor Afghanistan on the brink of an economic disaster, while refusing to give political recognition to the country's new Taliban rulers, the Taliban said on Sunday. The statement came at the end of the first direct talks between the former foes since the chaotic withdrawal of U.S. troops at the end of August. The U.S. statement was less definitive, saying only that the two sides “discussed the U.S.’ provision of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people.” The Taliban said the talks held in Doha, Qatar, “went well,” with Washington freeing up humanitarian aid to Afghanistan after agreeing not to link such assistance to formal recognition of the Taliban. The United States made it clear that the talks were in no way a preamble to recognition of the Taliban, who swept into power August 15 after the U.S.-allied government collapsed. State Department spokesman Ned Price called the discussions “candid and professional,” with the U.S. side reiterating that the Taliban will be judged on their actions, not only their words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-provide-aid-to-afghanistan-say-taliban/article36956047.ece
12 October 2021||Vienna,||Schallenberg sworn-in as Austria’s leader||Austria got a new Chancellor on Monday, two days after former leader Sebastian Kurz resigned amid corruption allegations, but the direction of government policy was not expected to change. Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen swore in Alexander Schallenberg, the former Foreign Minister, as Chancellor. Career diplomat Michael Linhart became the new Foreign Minister. Mr. Schallenberg, 52, told reporters on Monday that he would do “everything to refill the trenches” caused by the recent government crisis and also “do everything in my power to serve our beautiful country of Austria.” He also said he would continue to work closely with the conservative Mr. Kurz. Both share a hard line on immigration. Mr. Kurz, 35, announced on Saturday that he would step aside to defuse a political crisis triggered by prosecutors’ announcement that he is one of the targets of an investigation into suspected bribery and breach of trust. Mr. Kurz’s junior coalition partners, the Greens, had demanded his replacement. Mr. Kurz denies any wrongdoing. Although he stepped down as Chancellor, he is keeping his role as party chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/schallenberg-sworn-in-as-austrias-leader/article36956042.ece
12 October 2021||Beirut,||Car bomb blast in Syrian town kills 4||A car bomb exploded in a northern Syrian town controlled by Turkey-backed Syrian opposition fighters Monday, killing at least four people, rescue workers and a war monitor said. The bomb exploded in a market in the town of Afrin in Aleppo province. Volunteers with the Syrian Civil Defense, rescuers who operate in opposition areas, said the death toll would likely rise. The civil defense group said a woman was among those killed. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the death toll at six, including suspected opposition fighters. The explosion hit near the market in the town center not far from a post for the dominant armed group in the area, the Army of Islam, according to the Observatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/car-bomb-blast-in-syrian-town-kills-4/article36956043.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Protecting India’s natural laboratories||Like social diversity, India’s geodiversity, or variety of the geological and physical elements of nature, is unique. India has tall mountains, deep valleys, sculpted landforms, long-winding coastlines, hot mineral springs, active volcanoes, diverse soil types, mineralised areas, and globally important fossil-bearing sites. It is long known as the world’s ‘natural laboratory’ for geo-scientific learning. Lack of geological literacy Broken loose from a supercontinent 150 million years ago, the Indian landmass, with all its strange-looking plants and animals, drifted northwards all by itself for 100 million years until it settled under the southern margin of the Asian continent. It got entwined with the world’s youngest plate boundary. The geological features and landscapes that evolved over billions of years through numerous cycles of tectonic and climate upheavals are recorded in India’s rock formations and terrains, and are part of the country’s heritage. For example, the Kutch region in Gujarat has dinosaur fossils and is our version of a Jurassic Park. The Tiruchirappalli region of Tamil Nadu, originally a Mesozoic Ocean, is a store house of Cretaceous (60 million years ago) marine fossils. To know how physical geography gets transformed into a cultural entity, we need to study the environmental history of the Indus River Valley, one of the cradles of human civilisation. India offers plenty of such examples. Geo-heritage sites are educational spaces where people find themselves acquiring badly needed geological literacy, especially at a time when India’s collective regard for this legacy is abysmal. Indian classrooms view disciplines like environmental science and geology with disdain compared to how they view other ‘pure’ subjects like physics, biology, and chemistry. This lack of interest in the government and our academic circles towards geological literacy is unfortunate at a time when we face a crisis like global warming. As the climate of the future is uncertain, decision-making is difficult. Learning from the geological past, like the warmer intervals during the Miocene Epoch (23 to 5 million years ago), whose climate can be reconstructed using proxies and simulations, may serve as an analogue for future climate. The awareness accrued through educational activities in geo-heritage parks will make it easy for us to memorialise past events of climate change and appreciate the adaptive measures to be followed for survival. The importance of the shared geological heritage of our planet was first recognised in 1991 at an UNESCO-sponsored event, ‘First International Symposium on the Conservation of our Geological Heritage’. The delegates assembled in Digne, France, and endorsed the concept of a shared legacy: “Man and the Earth share a common heritage, of which we and our governments are but the custodians.” This declaration foresaw the establishment of geo-parks as sites that commemorate unique geological features and landscapes within their assigned territories; and as spaces that educate the public on geological importance. These sites thus promote geo-tourism that generates revenue and employment. In the late 1990s, in what may be considered as a continuation of the Digne resolution, UNESCO facilitated efforts to create a formal programme promoting a global network of geoheritage sites. These were intended to complement the World Heritage Convention and the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere programme. UNESCO provided guidelines for developing national geo-parks so that they become part of the Global Geoparks Network. Today, there are 169 Global Geoparks across 44 countries. Countries like Vietnam and Thailand have also implemented laws to conserve their geological and natural heritage. Unfortunately, India does not have any such legislation and policy for conservation. Though the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has identified 32 sites as National Geological Monuments, there is not a single geo-park in India which is recognised by the UNESCO. This is despite the fact that India is a signatory to the establishment of UNESCO Global Geoparks. The GSI had submitted a draft legislation for geo-heritage conservation to the Ministry of Mines in 2014, but it did not make any impact. The development juggernaut Despite international progress in this field, the concept of geo-conservation has not found much traction in India. Many fossil-bearing sites have been destroyed in the name of development. This indifference — strange as it may seem given the current dispensation’s penchant for crying itself hoarse about India’s heritage — is going to take a toll on our heritage. The development juggernaut will soon overwhelm almost all our sites of geo-heritage. For example, the high concentration of iridium in the geological section at Anjar, Kutch district, provides evidence for a massive meteoritic impact that caused the extinction of dinosaurs about 65 million years ago. This site was destroyed due to the laying of a new rail track in the area. Similarly, a national geological monument exhibiting a unique rock called Nepheline Syenite in Ajmer district of Rajasthan was destroyed in a road-widening project. The Lonar impact crater in Buldhana district of Maharashtra is an important geo-heritage site of international significance. It is under threat of destruction, although conservation work is now in progress under the High Court’s supervision. We are inching towards the disappearance of most of our geological heritage sites. Thanks to unplanned and booming real estate business, many such features have been destroyed. Unregulated stone mining activities have also contributed to this destruction. This situation calls for immediate implementation of sustainable conservation measures such as those formulated for protecting biodiversity. Natural assets, once destroyed, can never be recreated. And if they are uprooted, they lose much of their scientific value. Geo-conservation legislation The protection of geo-heritage sites requires legislation. The Biological Diversity Act was implemented in 2002 and now there are 18 notified biosphere reserves in India. Geo-conservation should be a major guiding factor in land-use planning. A progressive legal framework is needed to support such strategies. In 2009, there was a half-hearted attempt to constitute a National Commission for Heritage Sites through a bill introduced in the Rajya Sabha. Though it was eventually referred to the Standing Committee, for some unstated reasons the government backtracked and the bill was withdrawn. In 2019, a group of geologists under the auspices of the Society of Earth Scientists petitioned the Prime Minister and the Ministries concerned about the need for a national conservation policy under the direct supervision of a national body committed to the protection of geo-heritage sites. But the government’s apathy continues. C.P. Rajendran is an adjunct professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, and author of the forthcoming book, ‘Earthquakes of the Indian Subcontinent’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protecting-indias-natural-laboratories/article36956036.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘yes or a no’ the Court must ask about Pegasus||In July this year, a global coalition of media organisations revealed that a mobile phone spyware — Pegasus — was being used in a number of countries to surveil journalists, activists, dissidents, and political leaders. Manufactured by an Israeli cyber-arms firm called the NSO Group, Pegasus is a highly invasive malware that once installed on an individual’s phone, can collect and transmit data, track activities such as browsing history, and control functionalities such as the phone camera. The NSO Group claims that its only clients are vetted governments. The Pegasus revelations thus indicated the possibility of serious governmental abuse. Yet another episode The revelations further showed that around 50,000 mobile phone numbers had been potentially infected by the spyware. Many of these numbers were Indian, and belonged to journalists, activists, and politicians. This was not the first time that such a thing had come to light. India featured on a list of Pegasus-using countries as early as in 2018. In 2019, it was found that a number of activists including some of the accused in the infamous Bhima Koregaon case had been potentially spied upon, and their mobile phones compromised. Later the same year, WhatsApp notified the Indian government of a Pegasus-related security breach, with as many as 121 Indian citizens being targeted. The July 2021 revelations, thus, were not new, but only the most recent and most extensive accounts of military-grade surveillance being carried out upon Indians. A track of stonewalling In the aftermath of the Pegasus revelations, certain countries such as France and Morocco ordered immediate investigations. In India, however, the story has been one of continuous official stonewalling. In October 2019, Right to Information requests about whether the Indian government had purchased the Pegasus software were met with a “no information available” response. Parliamentarians put questions to the Government in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, where, once again, no response on the purchase or use of Pegasus was forthcoming. The Government continued to maintain this stance in response to various Parliamentary questions put to it through 2020 and 2021, and even after the 2021 revelations, including the effective quashing of a Parliamentary Committee inquiry into the issue, with ruling party politicians disabling it from functioning by denying it a quorum. This history clearly indicates that attempts in Parliament to hold the executive accountable for possible abuse of governmental surveillance powers has been entirely frustrated for more than two years. Under our constitutional scheme, however, there is a third wing of state that exists precisely to address situations where executive abuse and violations of fundamental rights are not being checked by the available mechanisms: the court. Consequently, at the end of July, multiple petitions were filed before the Supreme Court of India, alleging breaches of fundamental rights, and of India’s legislative framework dealing with lawful interception of communications. However, it has now been almost two-and-a-half months since the petitions came to court, without meaningful action. Between August 5 and September 13, 2021, the Court held six hearings on the case. The issues are simple The issues before the Court were simple: did the Government of India authorise the use of Pegasus upon the individuals whose names had appeared in the list? If it did, was there any justification for the use of such intrusive surveillance upon individuals who, admittedly, were not accused of any wrongdoing? And if it did not, was it not a breach of the Government’s constitutional obligations to protect its citizens from the use of military-grade surveillance by rogue actors? It is important to note that the petitions were not some fishing expedition asking the Government to reveal details about its general interceptions techniques: rather, they were brought to court by individuals who had themselves been affected by Pegasus, and were focused upon accountability: in essence, does the Indian Constitution allow for rampant and unchecked surveillance upon individuals — surveillance that goes far beyond simple interception of communication, and effectively hijacks and individual’s mobile phone — with complete impunity? Nonetheless, throughout the hearings, the Government continued upon its track of evasion: it repeatedly refused to file an affidavit setting out its stance in writing, until nudged by the Court to do so. The final affidavit that it did file was nothing more than a recapitulation of its evasive stance in Parliament. Furthermore, it continued to resist answering the core questions put to it, on the basis that doing so would undermine “national security”. This has, however, been a recent, unfortunate trend: whenever the question of widespread and serious rights violations arises, the Government recites the words “national security” like a mantra, not simply to avoid providing answers, but to hint that even asking the question is somehow illegitimate. In this way, “national security” becomes a cloak for impunity. On the court’s conduct Nowhere was this more evident during the course of the Pegasus hearings. If a person whose mobile phone has been hijacked by a military-grade spyware that is only sold to governments, and if the Constitution means anything at all, it means that that person has the right to know why this has been done to him, and at whose behest. And — with the inability of Parliament to hold the executive to account — the only place where the individual can seek answers is the court. This has nothing to do with “national security”, and everything to do with whether we are a country governed by the rule of law — where the rule of law applies to both individuals and to the state — or whether we are living under a regime of executive impunity. Unfortunately, however, a record of the hearings so far indicates that the Court has allowed the Government to get away with much of its evasion. Despite the passage of two and a half months, the Court is yet to pass any consequential orders including, for example, orders directing the Government to provide the information that it has refused to provide Parliament and to citizens. Furthermore, the Court’s conduct has not been limited to inaction. When the State of West Bengal set up a committee to investigate Pegasus, the Court entertained a plea against it — despite having no ground to do so — and by orally expressing its disapproval (without any clear grounds to do so), effectively compelled the State government to halt the investigation. At no point was any legal justification provided for why the Court decided to hear such an irregular plea, or why the State of West Bengal was required to stop investigating breaches of fundamental rights. Need for direction On the last date of hearing, September 13, the Court indicated that it would establish a Committee to look into the matter. However, this puts the cart before the horse: it is unclear why the Court has not yet drawn an adverse inference against the Government for its repeated refusal to answer straightforward questions about potentially abusive surveillance; the setting up of a Committee would make sense after such a finding had been returned. Moreover, the substantial amount of time that has passed since the last order is worrying. In India, we have a long experience of “death by Committee”: issues that require urgent attention linger for many months in a Committee, and once public memory has dulled, are given a quiet burial. It is vital that this should not happen in the present case. Thus, a direction by the Court to the Government to answer whether it has been spying on citizens not accused of any offence — a direct yes/no question — and, if the answer is yes, to require it to explain why or face legal consequences — would be a good start. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-yes-or-a-no-the-court-must-ask-about-pegasus/article36956026.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The next step is a constitutional right to health||The brevity of human memory is often a blessing and even necessary for our collective healing from suffering. But the lessons we learn from suffering are possibly even more crucial. As our people continue to face individual and collective grief as a result of the novel coronavirus pandemic, it is the moral responsibility of our leaders to look ahead and learn the necessary lessons. A place for this ‘right’ The lesson here is the need for the constitutional ‘Right to Health for all’. The pandemic has exposed and aggravated the cracks in our health-care systems, and this is a lesson we cannot afford to ignore and not learn. In June this year, I called on the Parliament of India to take immediate measures to make necessary amendments to the Constitution to declare health care a Fundamental Right. I was reassured with positive responses from parliamentarians across party lines who have supported this call. Now, the time has come to make this a reality for India so our people never have to undergo the suffering that they did. Through the eyes of citizens The primary question raised is: what will a constitutional ‘Right to Health’ mean for a citizen of India? I will try and explain this through the lens of three categories of citizens: farmers and unorganised workers, women and children. Farmers are the primary protectors of our fundamental right to life. Yet, the majority remain at a loose end when it comes to their own rights and well-being, and that of their families. Without an anchor during times of severe illness or disease, generations of children of small and landless farmers, and unorganised, migrant and seasonal workers are thrown into bondage and debt by having to pay for medical costs from their limited earnings. Employment benefit schemes do not reach them, and the ones that do are mostly on paper. The implementation of the right to health can provide simple, transparent and quality health care to those who are most in need of such care. Women bear a disproportionate burden of the gaps in our health-care system. The taboos and patriarchal expectations surrounding their health lead to immense avoidable suffering. In addition, social and economic challenges prevent them from freely and openly accessing the little care that is available. A ‘Right to Health’ would mean that services reach the woman where and when she needs them. A large number of children who belong to the poorest and most marginalised communities of our country grow up working in hazardous situations be it fields, mines, brick kilns or factories. They are either not enrolled in schools or are not able to attend it due to the pressing financial needs of the family — often because of unexpected out-of-pocket medical expenses. Making it safer for children My organisation has rescued over 1,00,000 such children from child labour, bonded labour, and trafficking. When rescued, these children are ridden with complex health impacts of working — primarily tuberculosis, skin diseases, eyesight impairment, and malnutrition, besides the substantial mental health impact. These children have been denied a safety net of early childhood care and protection, the consequences of which are felt for a lifetime. The ‘Right to Health’ will help transition the children in exploitative conditions into a safer future. A constitutional ‘Right to Health’ will transform not only the health and well-being of our people but will act as a leap for the economic and developmental progress of the nation. Presently, any investment in health care fails to translate into a sense of security and sanctuary for the people of India. Instead, the complex and often corrupt means of accessing even existing health care only adds to the suffering instead of alleviating it. The vision for Ayushman Bharat will be strengthened with a constitutional ‘Right to Health’. The immediate financial security that will come with the constitutional ‘Right to Health’ will be seen as a measurable impact on family savings, greater investment, and jobs creation on the one hand, and in the long-term emotional, psychological and social security of people. As a legacy The world is taking steps, both big and small, in recovering from the pandemic through foresight in policy and investment. India must not lag behind. The right to free and compulsory education was arguably one of the most valuable legacies of the earlier Government. The true testament of bold leadership lies in its timely, compassionate and courageous decisions for the greater good. A constitutional amendment to introduce the ‘Right to Health for India’ can be the legacy of this Government. Kailash Satyarthi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2014, is an advocate of children’s rights. He is also the founder of the Global Campaign for Education and the Laureates and Leaders for Children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-next-step-is-a-constitutional-right-to-health/article36956028.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The audacity of regional films||For long, Indian cinema has been synonymous with Bollywood. However, the pandemic-induced growth of over-the-top (OTT) platforms has opened up new vistas for audiences to watch and appreciate films from other parts of the country. Bollywood, which is largely influenced by the ebbs and flows of the box office, has often failed to capture the social complexities of Indian society. It is still quite distant from the experiences and sensibilities of the masses. It generally follows an escapist approach, where storytelling becomes a commodity. On the other hand, Malayalam, Assamese, Bengali, Marathi and Tamil cinema, to name a few, frequently depict gender, religious, caste and class disparities. This is not to say that fantasy, which provides a break from the dreariness of our daily lives, is not an important aspect of cinema. But it is the safe distancing of Hindi cinema from hard-hitting issues such as the atrocities committed against Dalits and Muslims, religious majoritarianism, sexual inclusivity and class barriers that are a major concern. Pushing boundaries The cinematic treatment of Bollywood has been formulaic. Films either derive inspiration from the West or are compelled by the process of globalisation. Over the past few years, Bollywood has churned out many hyper nationalist films, films that misrepresent minority communities, and films that assert a certain culture, thus furthering the majoritarian nation-building project. On the other hand, regional cinema is constantly pushing boundaries with experimental takes on social and political issues. In recent years, Tamil cinema has revolutionised the art with larger social observations. Filmmakers like Mari Selvaraj, Pa. Ranjit and Vetrimaaran have produced films that explore the issues of the common man. They represent the voice of the subaltern without being apologetic unlike their counterparts in Bollywood. Mari Selvaraj and Pa. Ranjit are known for making films centred around Dalit lives. In the 1970s and ‘80s, there was a wave of parallel cinema in Bollywood which spoke of the victimisation of Dalits. However, in contemporary Tamil cinema, Dalits are not victims; they are assertive protagonists who actively fight back against upper caste assertion. Through his films Kabali and Kaala and most recently Sarpatta Parambarai, Pa. Ranjith  has brought to us Dalit heroes, who are rare in Indian film history. Mari Selvaraj has established the normalisation of Dalit characters through Pariyerum Perumal and Karnan . These films further the politics of social justice in subtle ways instead of depicting communities as pitiable beneficiaries of certain policies and lacking in dignity. Another regional industry which has resonated with the larger Indian audience is the Malayalam industry. Malayalam cinema is known to reflect on contemporary concerns and anxieties. Most Malayalam films have small budgets, but their impact is immense because of their fresh take on common people-centric stories. Jeo Baby’s The Great Indian Kitchen, for instance, can be considered as one of the biggest disruptors of normative gendered labour and relations. While questioning regressive gendered practices, the filmmaker employs a layered and minimalist approach to drive the message home. On the other hand, Bollywood’s approach tends to be loud and sensational, with a greater focus on costume, set design, light, colour, and location than the subject at hand. In Dileesh Pothan’s Maheshinte Prathikaaram, even the slippers of the character played by Fahad Faasil has an important role to play. Regional films are often replete with metaphors and symbols. Politics of majoritarianism Today, when hyper nationalism is at its peak, Bollywood often acts as a tool in the hands of the majoritarian nation-building project. Many Hindi films use the archaic trope of cultural assertion and continue to vilify a particular community while downplaying structural inequalities in society. This trend can be witnessed in the surge in period dramas and biopics of politicians and sportspersons where characters are overglorified. On the other hand, certain filmmakers in Bengali and Marathi cinema, through their politically heightened content, are challenging polarisation and the threat to India’s diversity. Aparna Sen in her 2019 film, Ghawre Bairey Aaj, highlights the jingoism prevalent in the political ecosystem. Another important movie is Nagraj Manjule’s Sairat which treats caste as a political issue. Regional cinema has woven narratives in a socially conscious manner and has the potential to substantially disrupt class and caste hegemony and majoritarianism. It represents India in a much more holistic and meaningful manner than Bollywood. Nehal Ahmed is a research scholar of cinema at Jamia Millia Islamia and Faiza Nasir is a lecturer in Political Science||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-audacity-of-regional-films/article36956032.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling the climate crisis||The recently published Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report from Working Group I makes a clarion call for climate action. According to the report, the past decade (2011-2020) was warmer by 1.09°C than the period from 1850 to 1900, and the 1.5°C global warming threshold is likely to be breached soon. The IPCC report warns India against more intense heat waves, heavy monsoons and rise in weather extremes in the future. The Global Climate Risk Index (2021) ranked India the seventh-most affected country by weather extremes. Responses to climate change vary from place to place as there are differences in production systems, agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions across the country. Adopt adaptation strategies The pressure to speed up mitigation and adaptation is at an all-time high. India is doing well in achieving its mitigation commitments of reducing emission intensity and enhancing renewable capacity. India is targeting 450 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and it has launched mega solar and green hydrogen missions. The Shoonya programme by NITI Aayog, which aims to accelerate adoption of electric vehicles, is yet another effort towards adoption of clean technologies. With escalating climatic risks, there is an urgency to adopt adaptation strategies. India has some dedicated initiatives towards adaptation, such as the National Action Plan on Climate Change and the National Adaptation Fund. However, a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience actions is needed to save hard-earned developmental gains and adjust to new climate conditions. Adaptation planning needs to go beyond a business-as-usual approach. A development-centric approach that aligns climate change, food security, and livelihood perspectives and takes into consideration regional specificities is crucial for reducing poverty and distress migrations. Moreover, adaptation planning requires governance at different levels to understand, plan, coordinate, integrate and act to reduce vulnerability and exposure. To strengthen adaptation and resilience, India can do the following. First, it can be more prepared for climate change with high-quality meteorological data. With improved early warning systems and forecasting, we can tackle the crisis better. Premier research institutes can be roped in to develop regional climate projections for robust risk assessments. Second, for sustainable production systems, it is necessary to develop well-functioning markets for environmentally friendly products and disseminate them for the desired behavioural change. Third, it is important to encourage private sector participation for investment in adaptation technologies and for designing and implementing innovative climate services and solutions in areas such as agriculture, health, infrastructure, insurance and risk management. Fourth, we need to protect mangroves and forests to address climate-related risks by blending traditional knowledge with scientific evidence and encourage local and non-state actors to actively participate. Fifth, major social protection schemes must be climate-proofed. We have an opportunity to create resilient infrastructural assets, diversify the economy and enhance the adaptive capacity of rural households. Sixth, for continuous monitoring and evaluation, effective feedback mechanisms must be developed for mid-course correction. Periodic fine-tuning of State Action Plans on Climate Change is crucial to systematically understand micro-level sensitivities, plan resource allocation, and design responses to serve at different levels of intensities of climate hazards. Proactive and timely need-based adaptation is important. Without it, there will be a huge fiscal burden in the future. A more collaborative approach towards climate change adaptation is crucial. Next-generation reforms will promote new business and climate service opportunities across several sectors and thus create a sustainable economy. Bhawna Anand is Research Officer with the Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office, NITI Aayog. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tackling-the-climate-crisis/article36956033.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dangerous deadlock||As winter arrives on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the latest round of talks — the thirteenth — between India and China ended with no resolution in sight, leaving tens of thousands of soldiers facing the prospect of another harsh cold season on the heights of Eastern Ladakh. The contrasting statements sharply underlined the deadlock. The Indian Army’s statement on Monday morning noted that while India made “constructive suggestions” for resolving the remaining areas, the Chinese side “was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. A Chinese statement on Sunday night accused India of making “unreasonable and unrealistic demands”. There was no joint statement, as in the last round in August, when agreement was reached to disengage at Gogra. The only surprise is that the discord is now fully out in the open, in contrast to the anodyne declarations of both sides in August to “enhance trust” and “expeditiously resolve” issues that have already dragged on for more than one year. In fact, recent events on the boundary offered a portent that all was not well. First, reports citing Indian official sources, put out two days before Sunday’s talks, revealed a face-off in the Tawang Sector in Arunachal Pradesh; later, Chinese soldiers had been detained for a few hours. The reports sparked an angry reaction in China, where the military apparently leaked on social media images from last year purportedly showing injured Indian soldiers detained by China in the Galwan Valley. Statements from the Chinese Foreign Ministry, accusing India of following a “forward policy” in an explicit invocation of 1962, have vitiated the atmosphere. That China put out a statement on Sunday night barely hours after the talks concluded — a departure from normal practice in a country where statements usually are carefully vetted — suggests the PLA had no real intention to seek a resolution. This leaves the LAC in a perilous situation. Not only are several hotspots unresolved — the latest round was to discuss Hot Springs, while disputes remain over Demchok and Depsang — the Corps Commanders were also set to work out new protocols for patrolling. Speaking this weekend, Indian Army Chief General M.M. Naravane noted a large-scale infrastructure build-up on the Chinese side, and said as Chinese troops were there to stay, Indian troops will be there to stay too. Ladakh and the western sector may remain the focus of tensions, but as recent flare-ups in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh show, the middle and eastern sectors are hardly tranquil. Past border agreements are in disarray in the wake of China’s unprecedented amassing of troops, while around 50,000 troops of each side remain deployed in forward areas, all of which make for a dangerous mix as winter falls on the Himalayas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dangerous-deadlock/article36956021.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak wooing ejected foreign newsmen||Rawalpindi, October 11: Shocked by its image abroad and worried about votes against it at the United Nations, Pakistan is wooing some of the same foreign newsmen it ejected summarily from Dacca in March when the Army routed the Awami League and seized Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Spokesmen of the Ministry of Information here for the first time are promising regular briefings for foreign reporters. However, foreigners are still barred from weekly briefings conducted by the Ministry of External Affairs. Wooing does not extend to the domestic press. Although prepublication censorship of the local press has been lifted, news agencies and newspapers operate under a Martial Law regulation which amounts to virtually the same thing. The regulation forbids publishing material which “directly or indirectly” prejudices “the solidarity of Pakistan”, criticises the Martial Law regime, creates alarm, criticises President Yayha Khan, creates ill-will among the various groups of people in Pakistan and insults Islam or Mohamed Ali Jinnah. The Government has also warned newsmen against speculation on national issues such as the secret trial of Sheikh Mujib.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-wooing-ejected-foreign-newsmen/article36956029.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Limits to accommodation||The RBI’s latest monetary policy statement and accompanying actions reflect the dilemma confronting monetary authorities. While the RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee voted unanimously to keep benchmark interest rates unchanged as part of its efforts to support growth as the economy recovers, one of the six members on the MPC demurred yet again and voted against continuing with an accommodative stance for ‘as long as necessary’. Prof. Jayanth Varma had at the last meeting in August flagged the risks that prolonged monetary accommodation posed to the inflation outlook by ‘stimulating asset price inflation’ even as he posited that its impact in ‘mitigating the distress in the economy’ was arguably far more marginal. The MPC’s own current inflation outlook is a mixed bag. The projection for average inflation for the full fiscal year has been cut by 40 basis points to 5.3% even as the committee stresses that with core inflation ‘persisting at an elevated level’, the Centre and States would need to further ameliorate supply side and cost pressures, including through calibrated cuts in indirect taxes on petrol and diesel so as to address the issue of ‘very high’ pump prices. In an acknowledgment of the difficulty it faces in containing price pressures even as it keeps interest rates at growth-supportive lows, the monetary panel reiterated its plea for fiscal authorities to step in and help contain inflationary pressures, especially the pass-through impact of elevated transportation costs. Governor Shaktikanta Das tacitly conceded that the time had come to wind down the pandemic-era liquidity support as he announced the suspension of the G-SAP bond buying programme and simultaneously outlined measures to drain out surplus liquidity from the banking system. He cited the seemingly ‘strengthening’ growth impulses to justify the RBI’s decision. Here again, the MPC’s prognostication on growth is filled with uncertainties and caveats. Contact intensive services, which contribute about two-fifths to economic output and were among the worst hit by the COVID restrictions, still considerably lag their pre-pandemic levels; the manufacturing sector is still nowhere near supporting a rebound in investment demand; and, most crucially, the external environment that has so far been a major tailwind — through capital inflows and the demand for the country’s goods and services — is turning more uncertain. With growing signs that some major advanced economies are gearing for an imminent normalisation of monetary policy, the elbow room for the RBI to stay accommodative is narrowing sharply. As Prof. Varma had noted in his dissent, monetary authorities face the danger of failing to fulfil the MPC’s primary mandate of anchoring inflation expectations firmly around the 4% target. A failure that would hurt savers the most and risks derailing a consumption-led revival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/limits-to-accommodation/article36956022.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ebbing COVID wave, pace of jabs aiding economic recovery’||India’s economic recovery has spread its wings, the Finance Ministry said on Monday, stating that the ebbing of the second COVID-19 wave and fast-paced vaccination had spurred further momentum in economic activity, with mobility reaching 90% of pre-pandemic levels. Asserting that India would be able to vaccinate its adult population by 2021-end, given the current pace of vaccination, the Ministry said this would be a remarkable feat in the global context. “India’s average daily inoculation rate witnessed a 91% increase from 41.3 lakh in June to 78.7 lakh in September, the highest in the world after China,” the Ministry pointed out. Citing an uptick in industrial output and a moderation in inflation, the Ministry said India was well-placed on the path to swift recovery with growth impulses ‘visibly transmitted’ to all sectors of the economy. “Sustained and robust growth in agriculture, sharp rebound in manufacturing and industry, resumption of services activity and buoyant revenues are suggesting that economy is progressing well,” it noted in its monthly economic review for September. Agriculture continued to strengthen rural demand on the back of estimated increase in kharif production, record-high procurement of wheat and paddy in the rabi marketing season and ongoing kharif marketing season, respectively, it said. A satisfactory monsoon promises similar benefits in the future as well, the Ministry added. In tandem with growth impulses across the economy, bank credit growth improved to 6.7% in the fortnight ended September 10, compared with 5.3% a year earlier, it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ebbing-covid-wave-pace-of-jabs-aiding-economic-recovery/article36956000.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘OneWeb likely to use ISRO’s platforms for 2022 launches’||Bharti Enterprises chairman Sunil Mittal on Monday said the “space race” had truly begun and the private sector should ensure that India remained on the cutting edge of the space industry. Speaking at the unveiling of the Indian Space Association, Mr. Mittal added that Bharti-backed OneWeb, which already had 322 satellites in orbit, will use India-built PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) and the heavier GSLV-MkIII (Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle) as potential platforms to launch OneWeb’s satellites in India from 2022. “I have been associated with this industry for nearly a year and a half now and I can say with a great deal of certainty... the space race has truly begun, and this race is getting accelerated every day... we are seeing that very very large powerful countries along with private sector are moving their agenda at a very fast pace,” said Mr. Mittal, who is also chairman at OneWeb. ‘Time to move ahead’ Mr. Mittal added that it was time for the private sector now to take advantage and ensure that India remained on the cutting edge of the space industry. “New technologies, R&D where billions of dollars are being spent, are upending old technologies. It is... time for us to move. In the next three to five years, the space industry will dramatically alter,” Mr. Mittal said. He added that OneWeb had entered into an arrangement through Letter of Intent with NewSpace India Ltd. the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), to use PSLV and the GSLV-MkIII as potential platforms to launch OneWeb’s satellites in India from 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oneweb-likely-to-use-isros-platforms-for-2022-launches/article36956003.ece
12 October 2021||MUMBAI,||‘AI-Vistara may hit global plans of IndiGo, SpiceJet’||The combined force of Tata group’s airlines, namely Air India and Vistara, is expected to pose challenges for the international ambitions of IndiGo and SpiceJet, said analysts at ICICI Securities. “Air India plus Vistara is a formidable force in the international segment. This is evident considering the network [7 of Vistara and 70 of Air India, without considering the overlap], wide body aircraft fleet of a total of 49 [2 Vistara and 47 Air India] and international market share [of 64%] of the combination,” analysts Ansuman Deb and Ravin Kurwa wrote in a note. “This entity can pose serious threat to the international long haul aspirations of IndiGo or the international cargo plans of SpiceJet,” they said. Vistara, which started international operations in August 2019, plans to further grow its network once it receives four 787-9 dreamliners by 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ai-vistara-may-hit-global-plans-of-indigo-spicejet/article36955998.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘DoT, TRAI working on optimal use of spectrum’||The Telecom Ministry is engaged in discussions with regulator TRAI to work out ways for optimum utilisation of “finite resource” spectrum, especially for airwave bands sought for both 5G services as well as satellite communication, a senior official said on Monday. “The demand for satellite-based and terrestrial telecom services have put unprecedented demands on radio spectrum, in particular the C band and the Ka band frequencies are needed for both space-based as well as terrestrial telecommunications services,” Telecom Secretary K. Rajaraman said. Speaking at an event organised by newly-formed industry body Indian Space Association, the Secretary added that since spectrum is a finite resource, its value can be augmented through sharing and with coexistence by different services. “Thus, it is necessary to ensure efficient use of spectrum... including revisiting the uses in the existing frequency bands as well as in the new frequency bands. We are engaged in this exercise in consultation with TRAI.” ‘Investments needed’ Speaking at the same session, TRAI Chairman P.D. Vaghela added that there was an ‘urgent need’ for policies that attracted investments, allowed use of space technology for the common man and ensured flexibility and ease of doing business. Mr. Vaghela added that the regulator was in the process of releasing a consultation paper for licensing framework for satellite earth station gateways — an area that requires “complete transformation” to facilitate establishment of earth stations by any satellite operators. Further, TRAI is working on bringing out a consultation paper for developing a comprehensive single window online portal, having interdepartmental linkages for transfer of application and information for parallel processing. The Telecom Secretary added that the recommendations from TRAI on the licensing framework for satellite space connectivity for low bit-rate applications are currently under consideration by the DoT. “We hope to take a decision very soon. This is likely to open up a large potential for IoT and machine to machine-based applications,” he said. Speaking at an earlier session Telecom and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that the government is fully committed to reforms and ensuring healthy competition in the sector and asked the industry to study the global best practices and come up with suggestions to contribute in formulation of enabling policy. The Centre wanted “to reform this sector and provide a level-playing-field to everybody. We want... healthy competition in this sector. Please come up with recommendations which will help us formulate policy in that direction," the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-trai-working-on-optimal-use-of-spectrum/article36956002.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India invited to become full-time IEA member’||International Energy Agency (IEA) has invited India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, to become its full-time member — a proposal, if accepted, will require New Delhi to raise strategic oil reserves to 90 days’ requirement. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said he held online discussions with IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol. “As a natural corollary to the India-IEA strategic partnership, Dr. Birol invited India to deepen its cooperation with IEA by becoming a full Member,” Mr. Puri tweeted without saying if the full-time membership proposal was acceptable to the Centre or not. In March 2017, India became an associate member of the agency. On its website, IEA states: “India is becoming increasingly influential in global energy trends.” India’s current strategic oil reserves equal 9.5 days of its requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-invited-to-become-full-time-iea-member/article36956007.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti Sept. production slides by half||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) witnessed a drop in production of more than 50% last month owing to the shortage of semiconductor chips. In a regulatory filing, the auto major reported total production of 81,278 units in September as compared with 1,66,086 units in September 2020. “Production volume of the company in September 2021 was affected due to electronic components shortage,” it noted. MSI had reported an 8% drop in total production in August on a yearly basis to 1,13,937 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-sept-production-slides-by-half/article36955996.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||AI’s Rs. 16,000-cr. unpaid bills to go to AIAHL||The government will transfer about Rs. 16,000 crore of unpaid fuel bills and other pending dues that Air India (AI) owes to suppliers, to a special purpose vehicle before handing over the loss-making airline to the Tata Group, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary, DIPAM, said. Air India Assets Holding Ltd. (AIAHL) will also be saddled with 75% of AI’s debt that the Tata Group is not taking over. He said he did not expect dues to increase much by December-end as the Centre would continue to support the airline’s operations to maintain it as a going concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ais-rs-16000-cr-unpaid-bills-to-go-to-aiahl/article36956004.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||CIL ups supply to power units to 1.51 MT a day||State-owned CIL on Monday said it had scaled up the supply of coal to power utilities across the country to 1.51 million tonnes (MT) per day during the past four days of the current month, and stressed that it was building up adequate evacuation logistics to transport the dry fuel. The development assumes significance in the wake of reports that warned of a power crisis due to coal shortage. The average supplies to the coal-fired power plants during October so far has been 1.43 MT per day, augmented to 1.51 MT in the past four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cil-ups-supply-to-power-units-to-151-mt-a-day/article36956005.ece
12 October 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS SCS raises Rs. 590 crore from Exor||TVS Supply Chain Solutions (TVS SCS), a leading provider of integrated supply chain solutions, has raised Rs. 590 crore from a fund managed by Exor. The funds will be used for ‘growth and transformation’. “TVS SCS will leverage its tech-enabled global solutions to outgrow the industry,” said R. Dinesh, MD, TVS SCS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-scs-raises-rs-590-crore-from-exor/article36956011.ece
12 October 2021||Chennai,||TAFE unveils Massey Service Utsav||Tractor major TAFE has unveiled a nationwide tractor service campaign ‘Massey Service Utsav.’ Through this initiative, TAFE intends to reach out to more than 10 lakh customers. The goal is to benefit farmers by reducing maintenance cost and providing them with best-in-class service, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tafe-unveils-massey-service-utsav/article36956009.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Airtel, Voda Idea move telecom tribunal against DoT's demand notice for Rs 3,050 cr penalties in PoI matter||Telecom majors Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have moved telecom tribunal TDSAT to challenge the Telecom Department's demand notices for the payment of Rs. 3,050 crore in penalties in the points-of- interconnect matter, according to a source.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airtel-voda-idea-move-telecom-tribunal-against-dots-demand-notice-for-rs-3050-cr-penalties-in-poi-matter/article36956012.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Splendid Narine does the star turn for KKR||A Sunil Narine-inspired Kolkata Knight Riders ensured that Virat Kohli’s last match as Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper would be a defeat, recording a four-wicket victory in the IPL Eliminator at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Monday. Chasing 139, KKR needed seven off the final over. But the uber-cool Shakib Al Hasan scooped the first ball from Dan Christian over short fine-leg for four. The rest of the chase was academic as Eoin Morgan’s side set-up a Qualifier 2 clash with Delhi Capitals on Wednesday (October 13). Earlier in the evening, Narine bowled four outstanding overs (4/21), which included a three-over second spell (3-0-17-3) during which he dismissed Kohli, AB de Villiers and Glenn Maxwell. Then, in a brilliant display of his secondary skill, the Trinidadian turned the match with three sixes in the 12th over as he made a 15-ball 26. At 79 for three and Yuzvendra Chahal (4-0-16-2) and Harshal Patel (4-0-19-2) bowling well, KKR appeared in a spot of bother. But Narine wielded the long handle to great effect to send Christian soaring over square-leg twice and long-off once. With 15 needed from three, Mohammed Siraj (4-0-19-2) bowled a splendid 18th over, conceding just three runs and claiming two wickets. He rearranged Narine’s stumps and had Dinesh Karthik caught behind to bring RCB back into the game. But it was just a minor wobble for KKR. Rollicking start Earlier, after electing to bat, Kohli (39, 33b, 5x4) and Devdutt Padikkal (21, 18b, 2x4) put on 49 for the opening wicket off just 31 balls. Padikkal feasted on Lockie Ferguson’s pace, guiding one over short third-man and glancing the other past short fine-leg. An inside-out loft over cover off Shivam Mavi was Kohli’s stand-out shot. But Ferguson forced Padikkal to drag one on to his stumps. The wicket stemmed the run flow, and RCB didn’t hit a single four from overs five to 10 as Narine, Varun Chakravarthy (4-0-20-0) and Shakib (4-0-24-0) suffocated the batters. Maxwell tried to break out of the shackles with a switch-hit for four. Kohli used his bottom hand to flick Ferguson to the deep mid-wicket fence. But Narine castled Kohli, as the latter missed the ball completely trying to heave one on the leg-side. de Villiers didn’t last long, bowled through the gate for 11. Maxwell soon followed the South African into the dugout, his wild slog caught by Ferguson at short third-man. During the spell, Narine was literally unplayable, and helped reduce RCB to 112 for five from 88 for two. That not a single six was hit during the entire innings told the story. So did the fact that Maxwell scored at less than run a ball (15, 18b, 1x4). It left the RCB lower middle-order with too much to do and the side duly fell short.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narine-varun-and-shakib-spin-a-web-around-rcb/article36956120.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Chhetri wants to keep playing in top flight||India’s talisman Sunil Chhetri says he hopes to continue playing and scoring goals for the country in the “foreseeable future”, his battle-hardened body getting a booster dose in the form of a landmark 77th international strike that drew him level with Pele. Even as his team goes through a prolonged lean phase, Chhetri’s goal-scoring prowess remains as good as ever, which is a testament to his consistency and dedication. “I keep getting asked about my consistency, and I wish I had an answer. But the truth is, there is no blueprint. It’s more about wanting to turn up every single day and give it my best, which, thankfully, I’ve never fallen short of,” Chhetri said. Through his glorious journey, the deadly poacher from Delhi has played alongside former stars such as Bhaichung Bhutia and Renedy Singh in the national team, besides well-known international players in the ISL and I-League. “I have been extremely lucky to have played with some great footballers who don’t get enough credit. I’ve learned something from every single coach I have played for. It’s the coming together of many things —big and small —and I hope to keep doing it in the foreseeable future,” he added. Notwithstanding the occasional chatter around his age and his longevity, the Indian captain wants to keep playing in top-flight and has not given his future any thought. “It might sound like a lie, but I’ve never given my future as a footballer any thought. Like I said, the one thing I probably do the best is wake up and turn up to train and play. I look forward to it, thoroughly enjoy it and haven’t ever wanted to stop doing it. “My future plan with football is literally what my next training session will look like. I am fortunate enough to have a support system around me that makes sure I don’t need to think or worry about anything that isn’t football. It just makes it all the more easier to love what I do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-wants-to-keep-playing-in-top-flight/article36956161.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Significant gains for India women from a tough Australian sojourn||The ball pitched somewhere around the imaginary sixth stump, swerved menacingly into the right-hander, and knocked off the off-bail. Wasim Jaffer called it the “ball of the century, women’s cricket edition”. That ball from Shikha Pandey, to Alyssa Healy in the second T20I, offered an insight into India’s tour of Australia, which came to an end on Sunday. For, that was only Shikha’s second ball on the tour, before the start of which India’s biggest worry had been its pace bowling. If an experienced, skilled bowler like Shikha could be kept out of the eleven for so long, it means the competition for the pacer’s slot has become stiffer. The two women who got the nod ahead of Shikha — Pooja Vastrakar and debutant Meghna Singh —certainly justified the management’s faith in them. They formed a formidable trio with veteran Jhulan Goswami in the one-off Day/Night Test. Pace support Coach Ramesh Powar had stressed the need for pacers who could take the pressure off Jhulan. Pooja and Meghna did that, and more. When you add Renuka Singh, who made her India debut in the T20I series, and Shikha, you have enough pacers to support Jhulan at the 50-over World Cup in New Zealand in March-April next year. The vast improvement India showed in the pace-bowling department is one of the biggest gains from the Australia tour. Jhulan (38) may not be able to go on forever, though in the Test and ODIs she proved she was still one of the finest bowlers in women’s cricket. So the performances of the younger seamers should gladden the team management. The likes of Meghna and Renuka need to be nurtured even as the search for younger talents on the domestic circuit has to continue. The ease with which Yastika Bhatia took to international cricket shows there is talent to be tapped. Her 64 off 69 balls, in the third ODI, helped India chase down a challenging total and end Australia’s stunning streak of 26 wins. Find of the tour With Mithali Raj also not getting any younger, the emergence of the 21-year-old left-hander couldn’t have been better timed. Yastika was perhaps the find of the tour. The useful runs from wicketkeeper Richa Ghosh and Pooja promise greater depth to the batting. Talking of batting, the pleasing hundred by Smriti Mandhana in the Test was undoubtedly one of the highlights of the multi-format series. India may have lost the series 5-11, but that was made up for by some significant gains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/significant-gains-for-the-women-in-blue-from-a-tough-tour/article36956114.ece
12 October 2021||Hampi,||Chaitanya-Pradeep duo bags title||Chaitanya and Pradeep Kumar won the coveted ‘Pro modified’ class of the 4x4 Hampi Off Road Challenge at Hampi over the weekend. Chaitanya and Pradeep, driving a modified Maruti Suzuki Gypsy, finished the first day in fourth spot, with 490 points. A fine performance on the second day propelled the duo to the title, edging out nearest rival pair of Kranti-Dhanraj by seven points overall. Atul Thomas and Siraj, with a modified Mahindra Thar, won the ‘Modified’ class. Vinay Kumar-Vikram, driving a Mahindra Thar, won the ‘Stock diesel’ class. Varun Kumar-Adarsh, on a Maruti Suzuki Gypsy, took top honours in the ‘Stock petrol’ class. The event — organised by Motorsports Academy of Vijayanagar and sponsored by Karnataka Tourism, Ultramile Tyres and Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (DYES) — attracted 37 entries from across the country.  The results (winners):   Pro modified: Chaitanya & Pradeep Kumar.   Modified: Atul Thomas & Siraj.   Stock diesel: Vinay Kumar &Vikram. Stock petrol: Varun Kumar & Adarsh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chaitanya-pradeep-combo-clinches-title/article36956167.ece
12 October 2021||BUENOS AIRES,||Argentina has it easy against Uruguay||Two goals in the minutes before half-time, one of them an unusually fortunate counter from Lionel Messi, helped Argentina on its way to a comfortable 3-0 win over Uruguay in a World Cup qualifier here on Sunday. Eight minutes before the break Messi floated a 35-metre pass into the area but it was missed by both advancing striker Nicolas Gonzalez and goalkeeper Fernando Muslera and somehow sneaked into the net. Six minutes later Lautaro Martinez missed at a chance on the edge of the box but the loose ball fell into the path of Rodrigo De Paul who made no mistake. Martinez made up when he converted a low cross from De Paul 17 minutes into the second half. Perfect game “We played a great game,” said Messi. “Everything worked out perfectly.” “Uruguay wait for you and they generate danger. Once we got the first goal we started to find space and the goals appeared.” The win, combined with Brazil’s 0-0 draw at Colombia earlier in the day, narrows the gap between leader Brazil and second-placed Argentina to six points at the top of the 10-team South American qualifying group. The stalemate also ended Brazil’s nine-match winning run. In the CONCACAF World Cup qualifiers, Anibal Godoy’s 54th-minute goal gave host Panama a historic 1-0 victory to end USA’s unbeaten run  The results:   South America: Bolivia 1 (R. Vaca 82) bt Peru 0; Venezuela 2 (Machis 45+1, Bello 64) bt Ecuador 1 (Valencia 37-pen); Colombia 0 drew with Brazil 0; Argentina 3 (Messi 38, De Paul 44, Martinez 62) bt Uruguay 0; Chile 2 (Brereton 68, Isla 72) bt Paraguay 0.   CONCACAF: Jamaica 0 drew with Canada 0; Costa Rica 2 (Ruiz 52, Borges 58-pen) bt El Salvador 1 (Henriquez 12); Panama 1 (Godoy 54) bt United States 0; Mexico 3 (Cordova 18, Funes Mori 76, Lozano 86) bt Honduras 0.   Africa: Mauritania 0 drew with Tunisia 0; Zambia 1 (Sakala 65) drew with Equatorial Guinea 1 (Bikoro 82); Cape Verde 1 (Mendes 90) bt Liberia 0; Central African Republic 0 lost to Nigeria 2 (Balogun 29, Osimhen 45+1); Uganda 1 (Bayo 22) bt Rwanda 0; Kenya 0 lost to Mali 1 (Kone 55); Madagascar 1 (Rakotoharimalala 2) bt Democratic Republic of Congo 0; Benin 0 lost to Tanzania 1 (Msuva 6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-has-it-easy-against-uruguay/article36956015.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The finisher’ is back in business||It was a blast from the past. At the end of which the Lion continued to roar. What’s life without belief? When M.S. Dhoni walked out during the climactic stages against Delhi Capitals in Qualifier 1, ahead of Ravindra Jadeja, the Chennai Super Kings fans could have exclaimed a collective “Oh No.” And they could not be faulted. After all, little had gone right for Dhoni with the bat in this IPL. He had been hitting thin air. He was 40 now with grey streaks in his hair. Had he slowed down? But then, he was keeping wickets alertly, both standing up and to the pacemen. If his reflexes had deserted him, he surely would have fluffed his ‘takes.’ Matter of form For Dhoni it was a matter of form. And he had to rediscover it and fast. Time waits for no one. Those who have watched Dhoni practise range hitting would know how seriously he takes these drills and how long he can still strike the ball. He’s not the world’s greatest finisher for nothing. But now questions were being asked. At stake was pride. Dhoni is renowned for taking decisions that are guided by instinct. They are invariably right. Whether it was asking the unsung Joginder Sharma to bowl the last over in the World T20 final, walking in ahead of the in-form Yuvraj Singh in the ODI World Cup summit clash, or entering the arena ahead of Jadeja on Sunday in IPL Qualifier 1, Dhoni backs his gut feeling. Courage he has in plenty — he leads by example — and also faith in his own ability. Clear signs On Sunday, the signs were clear when he smashed the red-hot Avesh Khan over midwicket for a six. Then, in the last over, he thumped Tom Curran through covers, found a lucky inside edge and then swung the pacemen for the winning runs. It was over, Delhi Capitals consumed by the desert sandstorm. Dhoni’s hurricane six-ball unbeaten 18 — the bat-speed and wrists were visible again — had settled the issue. The Finisher was back in business. Never count Dhoni out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-finisher-is-back-in-business/article36956128.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Have given my 120% to RCB: Kohli||Virat Kohli, whose long stint as RCB captain came to an end after a defeat to KKR in the Eliminator on Monday, said he tried his best to bring success to the franchise. “I have tried my best to create a culture where youngsters can play expressive cricket. This is something I have tried to do for the Indian team as well. All I can say is that I have given my best. I have given my 120% to this franchise, and I will continue giving it as a player. This is a great time to regroup and restructure the franchise. I will definitely continue to play for RCB. Loyalty matters and my commitment is with this franchise,” said Kohli at the post-match television interview. Kohli praised the KKR spinners for their match-winning effort. “The KKR spinners dominated the game in the middle overs. They kept taking wickets. Sunil Narine has always been a quality bowler, and tonight he once again showed why he is one of the most consistent wicket-takers in the IPL. Shakib (Al Hasan), Varun (Chakravarthy) and Narine all bowled amazingly together. We had a great start, and probably should’ve tried to build on it,” Kohli said. KKR skipper Eoin Morgan was pleased with Narine’s magical show. “Narine makes it look very easy. He bowled outstandingly well. He is a cool and level-headed customer. It is a privilege to have three world-class spinners in the team,” Morgan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-given-my-120-to-rcb-kohli/article36956131.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Abhishek, Surekha to lead India’s charge at Asian championships||World Championship silver medallists Abhishek Verma and V. Jyothi Surekha were on Monday named in India’s squad for the upcoming Asian Championship in Dhaka. Abhishek, Rishabh Yadav, Mohit and Aman Saini form the compound men’s team while the women’s team features Surekha, Muskan Kirar, Priya Gurjar and Parneet Kaur as the Archery Association of India (AAI) announced the team. The 22nd edition of the continental tournament will be held in Dhaka from November 13 to 19. Following the World Championship in the USA in September, Abhishek and Surekha shot perfect scores of 150 in their respective gold medal matches to emerge as individual champions at the 40th NTPC National championships in Jamshedpur last Wednesday. In men’s recurve, the Indian team comprises Kapil, Parth Salunkhe, Sukhchain Singh and Pravin Jadhav. The women’s recurve team consists of Ridhi, Ankita Bhakat, Komalika Bari and Madhu Vedwan. Both Abhishek and Surekha had bagged a mixed team silver in the World Championships in Yankton, USA, before their impressive show in the Nationals. In the individual event at Yankton, the 23-year-old Ankita held her nerve to eliminate Korean World No. 4 Kang Chae-Young. Komalika won the under-21 World Championship title in Wroclaw, Poland, to add to the u-18 title she won in Madrid in 2019, becoming the second Indian woman to achieve the feat after Deepika Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-surekha-to-lead-indias-charge/article36956400.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||BFI ropes in Devendro and Suranjoy as men’s coaches||Commonwealth Games medallists M. Suranjoy Singh and L. Devendro Singh, whose stellar boxing careers were cut short by injuries, have been roped in as coaches for men by the national federation ahead of this month’s World Championships, according to BFI secretary-general Hemanta Kalita. The 29-year-old Devendro and the 35-year-old Suranjoy are among 14 coaches short-listed for the National camp in Patiala, starting this week. The mega event, featuring over 600 boxers from more than 100 countries, begins on October 24 in Belgrade. Other prominent names in the coaching staff are head coach Narender Rana, former junior coach M.S. Dhaka, the seasoned Dharmendra Yadav and former boxers Diwakar Parsad and Torak Kharpan. Interestingly, both Suranjoy and Devendro have trained under Dhaka at the junior level. Decorated While Suranjoy is a gold-medallist from the 2010 Commonwealth Games and the 2009 Asian Championships, Devendro won a silver at the CWG and made the pre-quarterfinals of the 2012 London Olympics. Suranjoy had been named an assistant coach in 2017, but could not accept the position due to personal issues. Devendro, a World Championships quarterfinalist and Asian Championships silver-medallist as well, completed his coaching diploma from Patiala’s National Institute of Sports in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-ropes-in-devendro-and-suranjoy-as-mens-coaches/article36956288.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mahika thrives on the guidance from Clark||A week before the national championship, Mahika Khanna felt homesick and returned to Shahjahanpur from the Accelerate Academy in Gurugram. “I was at the Academy from May and really wanted to be home,” said Mahika, who dropped one set on way to the under-14 title, defying her wafer thin frame. Encouraging words Three months before the national championship, coach Todd Clark, who has done a lot of good work with Indian players over the years, had told Mahika that she had the potential to win the national title. “When I played the first under-18 tournament, he told me that if I worked on my second serve, I would win the title. I did!,” beamed Mahika, quite relaxed after her first round victory in the ongoing national under-18 championship. Introduced to the game by her sports loving father Gagan Khanna who has played cricket big time, Mahika had tried many academies over the years. “In our place there was only one court and no players. So, I had to go to Bareilly, about 80 km from home, to learn the game. Even now, my school is Alma Mater in Bareilly. They support me a lot,” said Mahika, capturing the essence of her journey so far. It calls for some vision to put a rank outsider as a favourite for the national title, but Todd Clark has great clarity in his coaching. “We have a ladder system in training. We have groups of different levels of players. There are regular matches. If a higher-level player loses to a lower-level player, they exchange their places in the groups. Initially, I used to cry after losing, and felt bad about being in the lowest group. But it motivated me to train better. Now, I like the system a lot,” said Mahika. Superb competitor The coach places his faith on Mahika because of her being a superb competitor. “The win in the pre-quarterfinals against Priyanka Rana gave me a lot of confidence. I had lost to her twice earlier,” said Mahika, who dropped the only set in the tournament to her. “After winning the under-14 title, there was no time for celebration. I had to quickly go to court No.11 and play my qualifying match for under-18,” recalled Mahika. There was some pressure on Mahika as her father had left all his business to take care of her tennis. “Now I am more confident. I play free without thinking about anything,” said Mahika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahika-thrives-on-clarks-guidance/article36956294.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ayush and Rupal are fastest in heats||As expected, Haryana’s Ayush Dabas returned the fastest time of 47.38 seconds in the men’s heats on the opening day of the 3rd National Open 400m championship at the Nehru Stadium complex here on Monday. Winner of the National under-23 title recently in 46.58 seconds — the fifth fastest time by an Indian this year — Dabas stood out in the crowd that included seven runners who covered the distance inside 49 seconds. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh’s Rupal won her heats in 56.13 seconds in the girls’ under-18 section, and emerged way faster than three others who clocked sub-60 timings. Karnataka’s Rihan C.H. was the fastest in the boys (under-16) heats following his effort of 49.31. UP’s Himanshu Rathi was next best in 50.71 while three others — Delhi’s Aman Choudhary, UP’s Sonu Chaudhary and Andhra’s Setty Lohit — warmed up for the battles ahead with sub-52 efforts. Rahul Githala (Rajasthan) topped the boys’ under-18 heats in 48.77, which was better than teammate Pankaj’s 48.97, the fastest time in the boys’ under-20 section. In the girls’ under-16, Karnataka’s Priyanka Olekar (58.97) and Tamil Nadu’s Kanista Teena (59.08) were two of the fastest semifinalists. The semifinals are scheduled on Tuesday morning and all the finals in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ayush-and-rupal-are-fastest-in-heats/article36956013.ece
12 October 2021||BOSTON:,||Kipruto, Kipyogei win||Kenya’s Benson Kipruto won the men’s race while Diana Kipyogei led a Kenyan sweep of the women’s podium in the Boston Marathon on Monday, each winning their first-ever major title. India’s Nitendra Singh Rawat finished 31th in a time of 2:22.01s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kipruto-kipyogei-win/article36956204.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Emotionally great to see MS do it: Fleming||Chennai Super Kings coach Stephen Fleming felt M.S. Dhoni’s finishing act was ‘emotionally great’ for the side, and revealed that the skipper was determined to get the job done. “It was emotionally great for us. We wish him every time he goes out. We know the pressure that he has, an expectation that there is on him and again he came up chops for us. So it was emotional in the changing room,” said Fleming. Commenting on the discussion he had with Dhoni on sending Ravindra Jadeja ahead of him, Fleming said, “I think we probably spoke more in these 20 overs than we have for a long time. There were a lot of technical discussions, just trying to work out how this was going to unfold and who was going to make the maximum impact. “But when the captain has the look in his eyes and says ‘I'll go’, it’s been well documented the number of times he has done that and today was one of those. So I didn’t hold him back and we saw the result of that,” Fleming added. Meanwhile, Delhi Capitals coach Ricky Ponting felt his team didn’t bat well enough to win the game and said the decision to bowl Tom Curran ahead of Kagiso Rabada for the final over was taken by skipper Rishabh Pant. Ponting said he will discuss it with the latter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/emotionally-great-to-see-ms-do-it-fleming/article36956111.ece
12 October 2021||Lausanne,||Winners would have remained same without fans’ participation: FIH CEO||The International Hockey Federation (FIH) will work on its global awards selection process that caused “anger” and “disappointment” this year, but its CEO Thierry Weil has asserted that the winners — all of them Indians — wouldn’t have been different even without fans’ votes. India swept the FIH annual awards last Wednesday, claiming all top honours based on a voting system which was lambasted as a “failure” by men’s Olympic champions Belgium, prompting the global body to say that it would try to figure why some associations did not cast their vote. Questions over process Many from across the hockey world questioned if it is really a good idea to have fans voting for an award which is meant to define the best athletes and coaches from a technical perspective. However, the award winners topped each of the voting groups that also involved the national associations and media. “Our overall strategy at FIH is to put athletes and fans at the centre of everything we do. So, it is essential to give fans an option to express their views. If in this regard the current process is the right one or not, is something we will need to analyse of course,” Weil said in an interview published by FIH. Votes from National Associations — represented by their respective captains and coaches — accounted for 50% of the overall result, while fans and players (25%) and media (25%) made the other half of the votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winners-would-have-remained-same-without-fans-participation-fih-ceo/article36956159.ece
12 October 2021||New Delhi,||Ajay rallies to beat Daksh||Ajay Malik bounced back from the brink of defeat to beat Daksh Agarwal 6-7(4), 7-6(0), 6-2 in the first round of the National junior tennis championship at the DLTA Complex here on Monday. In another interesting match, lucky loser Azmeer Shaikh beat Khush Sharma 6-2, 6-3. The top four seeds, Nishant Dabas, Aman Dahiya, Denim Yadav and Karan Singh moved into the second round. In the girls’ section, qualifier Nandini Dixit capitalised on her sharp game in beating Renne Singla 7-5, 6-0.  The results (first round): Under-18: Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Sagar Kumar 6-0, 6-1; Maanav Jain bt Jasmeet Duhan 6-2, 6-1; Ansh Kundu bt Mukil Ramanan 6-2, 6-4; Dhruv Hirpara bt Rajeshwar Reddy 6-2, 6-3; Lokesh Pun bt Deep Munim 7-5, 6-3; Ananth Manimuni bt Pasad Ingale 6-1, 6-2; Jason David bt Tharakesh Ashokar 6-0, 6-2; Aayush Bhat bt Jaishnav Shinde 0-6, 6-1, 6-1; Karan Singh bt Anup Bangargi 6-2, 6-1; Aditya Rathi bt Abhik Arora 6-2, 6-3; Shivam Kadam bt Rakshak Tarun 6-7(2), 6-2, 6-1; Tarun Korwar bt Torus Raat 7-6(10, 6-2; Rushil Khosla bt Tushar Mittal 6-0, 6-2; Skandha Rao bt Vansh Yadv 6-4, 6-1; Rohin Lotlikar bt Ninaad Ravi 6-0, 6-0; Aditya Nandal bt Rishi Jalota 6-2, 6-2; Sandesh Kurale bt Arjun Kundu 6-1, 6-1; Nikhil Mittal bt Yugraj Singh 6-2, 6-1; Azmeer Shaikh bt Khush Sharma 6-2, 6-3; Suresh Keerthivassan bt Yogee Panwar 7-6(3), 6-1; Abhay Chhabra bt Ajnabi Dahiya 6-3, 6-4; Saheb Sodhi bt Yash Baghel 6-2, 6-1; Kevin Karthik bt Vansh Nandal 6-4, 6-3; Denim Yadav bt Monil Lotlikar 4-6, 6-2, 6-0; Parv Nage bt Pragathesh Shivashankar 5-7, 6-2, 6-1; Arjun Phogaat bt Raghav Poonia 6-2, 7-6(2); Kush Arjeria bt Ayush Hindale 7-6(4), 6-1; Daksh Prasad bt Bushan Haobam 6-3, 6-4; Ajay Malik bt Daksh Agarwal 6-7(4), 7-6(0), 6-2; Yashvardhan Singh bt Kartik Saxena 2-6, 6-2, 3-1 (conceded)   Arjun Premkumar bt Tanishq Jadhav 7-5, 6-2; Aman Dahiya bt Sahil Tambat 6-0, 6-2.   Girls: Amodini Naik bt Sakshi Thakkar 7-6(3), 7-5; Lakshanya Vishwanath bt Tanushri Pandey 6-0, 6-1; Renee Singh bt Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-4, 6-4; Hitakamya Narwal bt Lakshmi Gowda 6-4, 6-2; Sachi Sharma bt Niyati Kukreti 6-3, 4-6, 6-1; Ikaraju Kanumuri bt Yati Besain 6-1, 6-2; Tamanna Takoria bt Samiksha Dabas 7-6(5), 7-5; Mahika Khanna bt Mridhula Palanivel 6-1, 6-3; Veda Raju Prapurna bt Trisha Malik 6-3, 6-3.   Ananya SR bt Suryanshi Tanwar 6-2, 7-6(2); Abhaya Vemuri bt Harnoor Kaur Sidhu 6-1, 6-4; Shrichandrakala Tentu bt Riya Kaushik 7-6(50, 6-1; Somya Arya bt Hannah Nagpal 1-6, 7-5, 6-4; Kristi Boro bt Apurva Vemuri 6-4, 7-5; Nandini Dixit bt Renne Singla 7-5, 6-0; Kundali Majgaine bt Srivally Medishetty 6-3, 7-6(1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajay-rallies-to-beat-daksh/article36956296.ece
12 October 2021||MALE,||Chhetri equals Pele, India beats Nepal||Sunil Chhetri equalled the legendary Pele with his 77th international goal, his 83rd-minute strike helping India beat Nepal 1-0 and saving his side from the verge of elimination in the SAFF Championships here on Sunday. The 37-year-old Chhetri, playing in his 123rd match for India, struck a late goal to draw level with the Brazillian great (77 goals from 92 matches). He is now joint third with UAE's Ali Mabkhout (77). Seven-time champion India is now in the third spot with five points from three matches in the five-team table, below Maldives (six points from three matches) and Nepal (six from three). India will need to win its final round-robin league match on Wednesday against Maldives if it has to make it to the Oct. 16 final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-equals-pele-india-beats-nepal/article36956109.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||ISSF updates medals tally||The Indian shooters had won so many medals in the Junior world championship in Lima, Peru, that the organisers had a tough time keeping tab of the count. After being credited with 16 gold, 15 silver and nine bronze medals at the conclusion, the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) had pointed out that the count was wrong to the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF). The international federation promptly ratified a fresh count that credited 17 gold, 16 silver and 10 bronze medals to India. Thus, India won 43 of the 117 medals, and 17 of the 39 gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/issf-updates-medals-tally/article36956292.ece
12 October 2021||DUBAI,||Additional tickets for T20 WC go on sale||Keeping in mind the presence of a large expat community in both Oman and the UAE, more tickets have been made available for all games at the ICC men’s T20 World Cup. The additional tickets went on sale on Monday 11. The International Cricket Council and the tournament’s official host BCCI has worked closely with the authorities in UAE and Oman, where the matches will be held, to ensure fans can be welcomed in a safe environment. COVID-19 protocols will apply at all venues. Chris Tetley, head of events, ICC said: “We’re delighted to be able to release more tickets for all games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/additional-tickets-for-t20-wc-go-on-sale/article36956519.ece
12 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||AITA names four women’s ITF events||The All India Tennis Association (AITA) announced four ITF World Tour events for women, in addition to the three for men announced earlier, on Monday.  Bengaluru will host a tournament from Nov. 29 followed by Solapur from Dec. 6. The prize money is $15,000. Pune will play host to the penultimate tournament with a prize money of $25,000. The last event will be in Navi Mumbai with a prize money of $25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aita-names-four-womens-itf-events/article36956297.ece
12 October 2021||Aarhus (Denmark),||India blanks Netherlands||The Indian men’s badminton team blanked lower-ranked Netherlands 5-0 in its opening Group C tie to make a winning start at the Thomas Cup Final here on Sunday. Taking the court first, K. Srikanth beat Joran Kweekel 21-12, 21-14 before Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty sailed past Ruben Jille and Ties van der Lecq 21-19, 21-12. World championship bronze-medallist B. Sai Praneeth then demolished Robin Mesman 21-4, 21-12 in just 27 minutes to give India an unassailable 3-0 lead. M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila next defeated Andy Buijk and Brian Wassink 21-12, 21-13 before Sameer Verma made the clean sweep, beating Gijs Duijs 21-6, 21-11. India will next play another weak opponent in Tahiti in the Thomas Cup on Tuesday, while in the Uber Cup India will be up against Scotland in Group B.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-blanks-netherlands/article36956113.ece
12 October 2021||HARARE,||Hunter betters Mithali’s record||Ireland’s Amy Hunter became the youngest centurion in ODIs on Monday after hitting an unbeaten 121 (8x4) against Zimbabwe on her 16th birthday. Mithali Raj held the women’s record with an unbeaten 114 against Ireland in 1999 at the age of 16 years and 205 days. Hunter had made her international debut against Scotland in May aged 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hunter-betters-mithalis-record/article36956126.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Saksham takes eight wickets||Saksham Tyagi (8/30) bowled St. Kabir Academy to a 191-run victory over Star Sports Academy in the 1st Indian Soldiers (u-13) day-night tournament.  The scores: St. Kabir Academy 248/1 in 30 overs (Gorish Dahiya 89 n.o., Abhishek Chahal 78 n.o., Avneet Malik 53) bt Star Sports 57 in 15 overs (Saksham Tyagi 8/30).    Harsh Bidhuri, Abhishek and Adnan took Noida Wonders to a one-wicket victory over Greater Valley in the 4th Skillz youth tournament.  The scores: Greater Valley 199/8 in 40 overs (Bhavi Sharma 55, Ronak 42, Vivek Dhami 3/31) lost to Noida Wonder 200/9 in 38 overs (Harsh Bidhuri 46, Abhishek 37, Adnan 32, Virat 3/21) .    Kirit Kaushik (6/22) guided York Club to a 118-run victory over Ramakant Achrekar Academy in the fifth Ashok Goyal memorial tournament.  The scores: York Club 200 in 48 overs (Aryan Kumar 38, Shaurya Sindhu 31, Nitik Mathur 30, Mohit Dikka 3/15) bt Ramakant Achrekar82 in 33 overs (Kirit Kaushik 6/22, Nitik Mathur 3/7) .    Gulzar (98) and Shubham Verma (3/39) played key roles in Uday Bhan Club’s 27-run win over Anand Sports Akshardham in the Swatik Cup.  The scores: Uday Bhan 277 in 36 overs (Gulzar 98, Mohit Panwar 41, Rachit Bhatia (3/27) bt Anand Sports Akshardham 250 in 37.4 overs (Naman Tiwari 62, Rohit Sharma 55, Shubham Verma 3/39) .    Mohit Bhati (4/11) was the hero of Florence Academy’s 32-run victory over We Cricket Leaders in the Push Academy (u-13) league.   The scores: Florence Academy 171/7 in 40 overs (Rihaan Kohar 57, Nidhish Gaur 53) bt WCL 139 in 34.4 overs (Virat Tyagi 47, Sandeep Parihar 32, Mohit Bhati 4/11); Push Tulip 39 in 21.4 overs (Vijay Kalra 4/1) lost to Lal Bahadur Shastri Academy 40/3 in 6.1 overs (Raunak (3/15) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saksham-takes-eight-wickets/article36956289.ece
12 October 2021||DUBAI,||RCB releases Hasaranga, Chameera for national duty||Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday released all-rounder Wanindu Hasaranga and pacer Dushmantha Chameera from the team’s bio-bubble to join the Sri Lankan squad ahead of its T20 World Cup qualifiers next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-releases-hasaranga-chameera-for-national-duty/article36956117.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Enyinnaya nets winner||Loveday Okechukwu Enyinnaya scored a 90th-minute winner as Madan Maharaj FC edged Ryntih Sports and Cultural Club 1-0 in the I-League Qualifiers on Monday. Madan Maharaj is now joint-top in Group A with four points, alongside Rajasthan United FC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/enyinnaya-nets-winner/article36956016.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 10:05 IST,||Sudoku — October 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-12-2021/article36957005.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I do not wish to limit myself’||In early September, as Yohani Diloka De Silva’s cover of ‘ Manike Mage Hithe ’ went viral in India, the Sri Lankan musician expressed a desire to tour India and interact with not just Indian fans but artistes too. Cut to October, Yohani has just wrapped up a performance in Heart Cup Coffee, Hyderabad, as part of her India tour with Zee Live’s newly-launched sub-IP ‘Supermoon #NowTrending’. The 28-year-old sports a small bruise under her right eye, which she explains with a chuckle: it is an occupational hazard, received from the stem end of a guitar during a set the night before. “I slept in today thankfully, to help it heal!” she laughs, during an interview at Le Meridien, Hyderabad. And what of pre-set rituals? Yohani keeps it simple, “I just train my voice beforehand.” But when she gets on stage, it is the ambience that gets her in the zone: “The lights, band, audience, space, the stage itself — the whole package flips a switch.” Originally performed by Satheeshan Rathnayaka, ‘ Manike Mage Hithe ’ is a Sinhala ballad sung by a man to a woman, to express his admiration of her character and beauty. But more than the sweet lyrics, Yohani’s soprano tones and gazes into the camera give it a simple teen-pop vibe that enraptured millions. The cover also features Satheeshan rapping and — at the time of writing — the video has crossed 141 million views. She has received shout-outs from Amitabh Bachchan and Sri Lankan cricketer Sanath Jayasuriya. Since then, ‘ Manike Mage Hithe ’ has been used on TikTok and Instagram Reels; the hashtag #ManikeMageHithe on Instagram has more than 70,000 posts. Such videos make Yohani happy but she does not take the responsibility that comes with a viral track lightly. “This is the first time a Sri Lankan song has been viral to this extent, and I want everyone to be proud of its success so far. A lot of people didn’t even know that the Sinhala language existed, so it makes me happy that the language has gone quite far,” she says, adding it has been overwhelming to be a sort of ambassador for the country, the language and the music. Funnily enough, Yohani’s tour does not feature Chennai, Bengaluru or Kerala cities even though she and her team put together Tamil and Malayalam versions of her ‘ Manike Mage Hithe ’ cover. “My producer is Tamil actually,” she explains, “and he taught me how to pronounce certain things.” The tour is proving hectic and to recentre herself, she tunes into two acoustic albums by British electronic group Above and Beyond. “My first cover on YouTube was ‘Satellite’ by Above and Beyond; they’ve been a very big part of my music life,” she states. “I listen to a lot of languages and I always explore other genres. I don’t want to limit myself.” More ambitions The musician talks about her debut album Kella , of which the first track ‘ Ithin Adare ’ released on Saturday. The 12-track album is her narration of what it means to be a young modern woman in Sri Lanka in terms of friendships, relationships, independence and the mundane ( kella means girl or woman in Sinhalese). Bollywood has also kept Yohani busy; she just finished recording the female rendition of the title track for Kunal Deshmukh’s Shiddat, currently streaming on Disney+ Hotstar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-do-not-wish-to-limit-myself/article36956543.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||How’s that!||“ Agathe Agathe Aithu !!” (‘It will happen, it will happen, it has happened!!’ in Kannada) began a tweet from the official handle of German Women’s Cricket last August. Their captain had just accomplished a feat that no other woman in international cricket has: four wickets in four balls in a T20 International. As the lower-ranked Austria floundered at 40/3 in 14 overs, chasing 198 at the Seebarn Cricket Centre, she wrecked them further in the next over with a four-wicket maiden. In the 18th over, the medium-pacer picked up one more to finish with an astonishing bowling figure (three overs, two maidens, one run, and five wickets). Whoever was tweeting from the German Women's Cricket team account wanted to pay Anuradha Doddaballapur a little tribute in her mother tongue. More accolades awaited Anuradha. She led the team to a commanding 5-0 series win that witnessed a slew of records: two hat-tricks, first T20I century, first T20I five-for, and an unbeaten opening partnership across all T20Is. Another 5-0 win over France this year extended the team’s T20I winning streak to 14. The hitherto little-known German cardiovascular scientist was getting interview requests for an accomplishment in a game, which for her is a “serious hobby”. But cricket captured her interest before science.  Getting into the game  Anuradha grew up in Basavanagudi, a residential locality in South Bengaluru. Like many middle-class fathers of that time in Bengaluru, hers too was a keen follower of cricket. A youngster from her city named Rahul Dravid was already making his presence felt in international cricket. Anuradha was more drawn to a cricketer from another country. The fearsome fast bowler from South Africa: Allan Donald. On a Sunday morning from Frankfurt, where she lives now, she reminisces about her childhood during the ‘90s over the phone. Dosas from Vidyarthi Bhavan and CTR. Traffic-free roads. Despite her fondness for Donald, Anuradha bowled leg-spin in her initial days. She also recalls what she calls the “moment of reckoning” in her cricket career. “I was in Class VII at Bishop Cotton Girls’ School and a classmate who was playing for Karnataka then told me about an Under-16 trial. I dialled home from one of those one-rupee coin-operated phones and told them I would be late.” A few weeks later, Anuradha made her debut for the Karnataka U-16 side. Some of her teammates like Veda Krishnamurthy, Vanitha V.R., Nooshin Al Khadeer, Karuna Jain and Mamatha Maben went on to play for India. She, too, could have had she chosen to focus more on her “serious hobby” than her burgeoning interest in science. The following for women’s cricket in India was almost absent then. It was not a great career choice. So, in 2008, she moved to the U.K. for a Master’s in Medical Genetics at Newcastle University. Three years later, she was in Frankfurt for a PhD in Cardiovascular Biology at the Goethe University. She is now a postdoctoral research scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Heart and Lung Research. What if women’s cricket in India had the following it has now? Would she have chosen cricket over science? Anuradha pauses before saying, “I think I would have still gone to the U.K.”  Making a mark  Though she chose science over cricket for her profession, she never let go of the game. It had become a part of her life. In her three-year stay in England, she played for Newcastle University, South North Cricket Club and Northumberland women’s county side. At least England was a cricketing nation and it was not too difficult to find women who played cricket. Frankfurt, where she moved to in 2011, was another story. It did not have a women’s team. So she did what she did as a young girl in Basavanagudi; play with the boys. It was awkward for the men who played against the Frankfurt Cricket Club (FCC). “They were surprised to see a woman bowling to them. And, I do not think they were very pleased when they got out,” she adds, laughing. Despite getting the better of the guys, Anuradha had an idea to start a women’s team for FCC in 2015. There was a problem — there were hardly any players to pick. Right, so there is not a team to pick; so, let us build one, thought Anuradha. She took up coaching, did a certified course and started teaching the basics to novices. Eight months into 2015, she put together a women's team. Six years later, she won the top-division tournament, German Women’s Bundesliga with them for the first time. She came. She saw. She found no team; so created one. And, she conquered. She has been a part of the German side since 2013. She has played 18 T20Is, including the one that prompted the team’s Twitter handle to tweet in Kannada. Germany was ranked outside the top-40 in the ICC T20I rankings when T20I status was granted in 2018 to all international games. They are 24th now. Anuradha would have liked to lead them to a World Cup participation. It would take several years of progress for Germany to get there. Anuradha, 34, might not be playing then, but would like to see the next generation of players getting there. The requirement of resilience. That is what, according to Anuradha, ties cricket and science together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hows-that/article36956495.ece
12 October 2021||October 12 2021 00:00 IST,||like a girl||Any young woman in India would want to stand in Lady Cadet Bijli Bijarnia’s shoes — they are a cool and successful pair. They often see more adventure than a pair in civvy street ever will — running through unmetalled roads with a battle-load and dashing between classrooms dodging the odd scorpion. They also just marched up to receive the coveted Sword of Honour given to the cadet who achieves the overall best performance at the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Chennai. Bijli’s story has been lived and relived at the Academy since 1992, the year women were inducted into the officer cadre, walking through its Ram Singh Dwar as novices and leaving a year later as commissioned officers. Tanushree Podder’s latest book, The Girls in Green , (published by Bloomsbury), soon to be a web series, explores the journey of women like Bijli and the triumphs and heartbreaks they encounter during their tenure at the Academy. “Ever since I wrote my two books set in the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, I have been asked why I hadn’t written one on the OTA, the only Academy in the country that commissions women to be officers. When I saw Captain Tania Shergill lead an all-male contingent at the Army Day Parade 2020, I knew it was time to write the book,” says Podder over a phone call from Pune. “Only those who are intent on pursuing a career in the armed forces know what a lady cadet’s life looks like. I wanted to introduce that world to a larger audience through fiction.”  While Bijli is a star footballer from the Haryana hinterland and Lakmenlang Zyiem a lawyer, Shiny Joseph, an engineer from Kottayam joins OTA to stay close to her childhood sweetheart Aaron, often finding herself pitted against him. Nutan Patil, a starry-eyed small-town girl, brings up the rear. In the sapping humidity of Chennai, the four join other lady cadets of their course to write their own saga of extraordinary energy and unflagging resilience in the months it takes to earn a Lieutenant’s stars. There are moments so exhausting that some cry in the first few weeks of PT, squad punishments from the platoon commanders, front-rolls and pull-ups, pondering whether to quit. They tear up again when they leave, knowing that the moments forged in the fire of their training has made them part of a very rare sisterhood. It is these moments sprinkled with a generous measure of laugh-aloud humour that Podder captures well. Bringing the Academy alive to the reader is another aspect that Podder navigates well — right from the picture of the white, red-roofed Rezang La building that houses the headquarters on the book cover to the buzz in the cafeteria, the stifling quiet when a film is screened, the scrub-lined trenches, the snake pits, war rooms and the layout of Phoenix MarketCity where cadets spend their ‘liberty’ (out-passes are issued on Sundays). To tell the story of these women on the cusp of a brave new world, Podder visited OTA twice. “A lady officer from the Ordnance Corps took me around the Academy. I met instructors, watched cadets from different corners of India interact at the cafe. It gave me a sense of the place.” The girls buff their boots, crawl through rain sodden trenches and spend days doing drill without end like their male counterparts. They even sport close cropped hair and on the day of their Passing Out Parade are limber and spare, in a ceremony that is nothing short of captivating. In between, they have their share of mad adventures. Is the happy ending intentional? “The joy is intentional. We live in a dark world, shrouded by the pandemic,” says Podder. “The will to survive is what I wanted to focus on, the path to wearing the stars on your epaulette is not for quitters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/like-a-girl/article36956542.ece
12 October 2021||Pune,||BJP, Cong. trade barbs as Fadnavis calls MVA ‘imposter government’||The tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress traded barbs with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the shutdown called over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence with former Maharashtra Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis dubbing the MVA as an “imposter government”. He alleged that traders and businessmen, despite their opposition, had been ‘threatened’ by the State government to participate in the bandh. “Do the parties which comprise the MVA coalition even have the moral right to hold the protest? These are the same people [Congress and the NCP] who had ordered the police to fire on protesting farmers in Pune’s Maval in 2011 [when the Congress-NCP government were in power]…while the Lakhimpur incident is very serious and the [BJP] government in Uttar Pradesh is probing the case, today’s shutdown by the MVA is purely a political stunt,” alleged Mr. Fadnavis, while pointing to the recent police lathicharge on farmers at Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, which has a Congress government. ‘Anti-farmer’ On the other hand, Maharashtra Congress Pradesh Committee (MPCC) Chief Nana Patole claimed that the success of the shutdown proved that the public was completely with the MVA government and riposted Mr. Fadnavis by remarking that the BJP’s combative opposition to the bandh proved that the saffron party was fundamentally ‘anti-farmer’ in its attitude. Claiming that 2,000 farmers have committed suicide since the MVA government came to power, Mr. Fadnavis further exhorted the ruling government to provide relief to flood-hit farmers in Maharashtra’s Marathwada and Vidarbha regions instead of protesting over an incident in distant Uttar Pradesh. “The ruling MVA coalition has misused the police and the GST administrations to impose the shutdown which the public have not supported. They are not at all sensitive to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident… This is a government of bandhs as it stopped all schemes for farmers once it came to power and imposed lockdowns during the pandemic at a time when the country was open,” alleged the BJP leader. Mr. Patole, on his part, dismissed the BJP’s propaganda of the public being opposed to the shutdown as “false.” Dismisses allegations “It is clear that the public is with the MVA. There was total support for the shutdown. It is not surprising that the ‘murderers of farmers’ [referring to the BJP in Lakhimpur Kheri] think that our protest is a farce,” said the State Congress chief, adding that the country had seen the way the BJP had harassed Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra during her visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. Mr. Patole said that contrary to the BJP’s pronouncements, even the trader community, who normally are said to side with the saffron party, had wholeheartedly supported the shutdown called by the MVA. “The Modi government has been trying to finish off small traders ever since the BJP came to power while favouring a few big industrialists. So the traders support for our bandh is a lesson to the Modi government,” he said.  Do the parties have the moral right to hold the protest? These are the same people who had ordered the police to fire on protesting farmers in Maval in 2011 Devendra Fadnavis Former Maharashtra CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fadnavis-calls-mva-an-imposter-government/article36956507.ece
12 October 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD chief Jayant assures protection to minorities||To mark the birth anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan, Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Singh on Monday promised to implement a ‘Sarvodaya Yojna’ if people voted the party to power in the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Since last week, Mr. Singh has been sharing features of the party’s election manifesto that will be formally released on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on October 31. Continuing with his bid to reach all sections of society, Mr. Singh at public meetings in Muzaffarnagar and Amroha said the party’s election manifesto will guarantee protection to the minorities like all sections of society. “These days those who chose to stay in India after 1947 are being asked to prove their nationality,” he remarked. Mr. Singh said a scholarship scheme would be launched for the students of the SC/ST and the OBC communities who get admission in top 500 universities of the world and promised an encouragement sum of Rs. 1 lakh for those seeking inter-caste marriage. “We will also bring an entrepreneur fund of Rs. 2,500 crore for SC/ST and physically handicapped youth with business aptitude to reduce economic disparity,” he said. He assured financial powers to the Panchayati Raj Institutions as envisaged in the 73rd Amendment of the Constitution and promised to establish a fund of Rs. 2,500 crore for agriculture start-ups. ‘Vote to seek revenge’ Addressing the farmers, Mr. Singh, who plans to participate in the last rites of the deceased in the Lakhimpur violence, said nobody thought that “a government chosen by you would not only ignore you but will also target you”. “This government would try to make you forget the Lakhimpur violence but you have to remember the names who lost their lives,” he said. Referring to the local leadership, he added, “And ask those who have gone into hiding where were they when the farmers were being mowed down. Seek revenge through your vote,” he said, describing his party as a fauj (army) of farmers that will work for their betterment. Mixing the personal with the political, Mr. Singh said COVID-19 left a trail of sorrow in families across the region. “I lost my father, you lost a leader. But at that time, a section of people was having fun. According to an international magazine, the income of some corporates doubled.” Taking on the BJP government at the Centre and the State, Mr. Singh said, “One is remote-controlled by the corporates, the other is out of control.” In the season of appropriating icons, Mr. Singh is also not limiting himself to the legacy of his grandfather Chaudhary Charan Singh. Last week, he invoked BSP founder Kanshi Ram and promised to introduce a scheme in his name for the urban workers. Mr. Singh reminded how both Narayan and Charan Singh were followers of Mahatma Gandhi. It is significant because Charan Singh’s supporters often held the anti-Emergency crusader responsible for ‘decommunalising’ Jan Sangh members and picking Morarji Desai over Charan Singh as the first non-Congress Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rld-chief-jayant-assures-protection-to-minorities/article36956328.ece
12 October 2021||Bhopal,||Cases lodged for ‘hurting’ Hindu sentiments in M.P.||The Ujjain and Indore police in Madhya Pradesh have lodged cases against a woman and five persons respectively for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments. Priests enraged over a video shot on the Mahakaleshwar temple premises in Ujjain demanded that the entry of women be stopped. The State’s Home Minister asked the SP to lodge an FIR against the woman on Monday. The priests dropped their demand after the registration of the FIR. In the second incident, cases against four non-Hindu youth and the organiser of a g arba event were lodged in Indore on Sunday night after members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal alleged that the event promoted “anti-Hindu activities”. The woman at the centre of the Ujjain controversy had posted the video she shot on Instagram, but took it down and issued a video statement apologising for her action which she said was not liked by priests and certain outfits. Moolchand Junwal, assistant administrator of the Mahakaleshwar temple, told media persons earlier on Monday that the priests lodged a complaint with the Ujjain administration demanding action against the woman and seeking that women be disallowed entry into the temple henceforth. “Stern action will be taken against people for releasing videos shot at religious places that hurt sentiments. In the context of a video released by a woman shot at Ujjain’s Mahakaleswar temple, I have asked the Ujjain Superintendent of Police to lodge an FIR against the woman,” tweeted Home Minister Narottam Mishra. Garba event halted In Indore, members of the VHP and Bajrang Dal created a ruckus during a garba event on Sunday alleging that it was promoting “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing outfits to describe interfaith marriages involving Muslim men and Hindu women. They stopped the event at Oxford College in the town’s Gandhi Nagar area insisting that participation of people from other religions is not acceptable at a Hindu event. The Gandhi Nagar police lodged an FIR against four persons and the organiser of the event, an official said. The State’s communally sensitive Malwa region has reported several incidents triggered by Hindu and Muslim radical groups in the past.  Stern action will be taken against people for releasing videos shot at religious places that hurt sentiments Narottam Mishra Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cases-lodged-for-hurting-hindu-sentiments-in-mp/article36956323.ece
12 October 2021||Mumbai,||Contempt of court against SP of Nagpur Central Prison||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently issued contempt of court against the Superintendent of Nagpur Central Prison and directed a departmental inquiry against him for displaying high-handed behaviour in being selective about allowing and denying parole to prisoners. A Division Bench of Justices V.M. Deshpande and Amit Borkar noted: “This is one more instance where the Superintendent of Police, Central Prison, Nagpur has exercised his powers in an arbitrary manner requiring this court to take stern view. A constant endeavour of the apex court has been to humanise the prison administration by various pronouncements by laying emphasis on the rights of the prisoner to the integrity of his physical and mental personality.” Arbitrary behaviour “The parole system has been held to be a reformative process by the Supreme Court. However, it is demonstrated by the acts of the Superintendent Anupkumar Kumre that he is exercising his power with arbitrariness as if there is no control of either the court or any superior authority over Mr. Kumre,” the court added. The court was hearing a criminal petition filed by Hanuman Pendam, a prisoner lodged at the Nagpur Central Jail. When he was surrendering back to jail after being released on parole, he was made to wait the whole day to get a negative COVID-19 report. After that he went to a private hospital but because of his financial condition he could not afford the test and had no choice but to return to his village. He was eventually arrested and taken back to jail. On the basis of this, Mr. Kumre rejected his emergency parole. Differential treatment The court had on earlier occasion directed Mr. Kumre to explain the prima facie arbitrary exercise of power by giving differential treatment to prisoners who were similarly situated. However, the Bench recorded: “On a close scrutiny of the various affidavits filed by Mr. Kumre, the court noticed some glaring contradictions which gives this court an impression that he has exercised his power in an arbitrary manner based on extraneous consideration. Numerous orders passed by Mr. Kumre show that he has selectively chose to allow emergency parole applications of certain prisoners but refused to release few prisoners who he thought it fit not to be released, in spite of clear pronouncement of this court.” The order reads, “Few selected prisoners were picked up by the jail authorities to inform them about their right of being released on emergency parole leave and remaining prisoners who were not made aware of their right were kept away from applying for emergency parole even after the period of one and a half years. This reflects a sorry state of affairs in Nagpur Prison.” The court thus issued Contempt of the Court (Bombay High Court) rules to Mr. Kumre and directed the Commissioner of Police, Nagpur, to appoint an officer to investigate into the affairs of granting benefit of parole. The Bench also directed the Additional Chief Secretary (Jail & Prison) to initiate a departmental enquiry against Mr. Kumre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/contempt-of-court-against-sp-of-nagpur-central-jail/article36956508.ece
12 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||NGRI plans to use AI for geosciences||The focus of CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) in the coming years will be on groundwater exploration and management of arid regions, exploration of uranium, shale gas, gas hydrates along with development of geological hazard assessment and early warning system for quakes, said director V.M. Tiwari on Monday. To build scientific research to global levels of excellence, the institute is planning to use Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) for geosciences, deep earth imaging and earth process modelling. All these efforts are to ensure access to sustainable water resources, for non-conventional energy needs and also towards strengthening the nation’s security, he said, during the concluding function of the diamond jubilee celebrations held in virtual mode. Tracing the contribution of the premier CSIR institute over the past 60 years in near surface to deep earth exploration, Dr. Tiwari said NGRI has been able to keep up with the technological advances to keep measuring and keep watch on the earth’s magnetic fields, simulation of the horizontal stress, 3-D seismic imaging of coal deposits, deep drilling maps, basins for potential gas hydrates, tsunami modelling, and legal continental shelf of the country. Recent projects have been making use of drones and helicopters for geo-mapping of resources, seismic monitoring of nuclear power plants and also the seismic studies following the Chamoli-Uttarakhand landslide disaster earlier this year. The institute has been at the forefront of publication of research papers with 5,000 research papers and 100 books till date and a record 200 papers published this year in various journals. CSIR-Director General Shekhar C. Mande said contributions of NGRI in the past six decades have been ‘phenomenal’ in terms of mapping of geochemical resources, gas hydrates, landslide and quake hazards and so on. “The groundwater recharge project in Choutuppal, which I saw during my recent visit, is a live example of how science and technology-led innovation can benefit society. It has helped reverse the migration to cities,” he said. The institute has not only played a crucial role in enhancing the fundamental scientific research but also translated the discoveries in labs into the ground for the benefit of people, he said. A special postal stamp and cover was also released on the occasion through TS chief post master general S. Rajendra Kumar. Dr. Mande also released ‘Geo-Odyssey’ highlighting the achievements of NGRI and ‘Journal of the Geological Society of India’. He called for closer interactions between the CSIR labs and the Ministry of Earth Sciences institutes. Senior scientists N. Puranchandra Rao and Kirti Srivastava also spoke.  The groundwater recharge project in Choutuppal is a live example of how science and technology-led innovation can benefit society. Shekhar C. Mande, CSIR Director General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngri-plans-to-use-ai-for-geosciences/article36956095.ece
12 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Sops for firms offering more jobs: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the Karnataka Government would come out with a new employment policy for providing incentives to industries and entrepreneurs who provide the maximum number of jobs. Karnataka also plans to formulate an R&D policy to promote research and development across all sectors of the economy. After inaugurating a workshop on ‘Udyami Aagu, Udyoga Needu’ (Be an entrepreneur, become an employer) and Kaigarika (industrial) Adalat on Palace Grounds in Bengaluru, he said, “The need of the hour is to provide jobs. Whoever gives more jobs, maximum incentives will be given to them under the [proposed] new employment policy.” The programme, organised by the Department of Industries and Commerce, aims to encourage professional youngsters and students to take up entrepreneurship and employment generation. Mr. Bommai told students that money alone was not enough. “It is through hard work that one becomes an entrepreneur. Consciousness of time and hard work are the hallmarks of an entrepreneur,” he said. The Chief Minister added that there needs to be synergy between academia and industry for the growth of industries and the job market. Many incentives were being provided to entrepreneurs under the Industrial Policy (2020-25), he said. Section 109 of Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, had been amended for acquisition of farm land for industrial purposes. The startup policy, semiconductor policy, and other policies have transformed Karnataka into an industry-friendly State. The State Government has provided Rs. 50 lakh grant-in-aid each to many startups in Bengaluru and in tier II and III cities. Skilled training would be provided to 75,000 candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities, and to women graduates, Mr. Bommai said. The Industries Department has been holding skill training programmes in various sectors and offering career guidance. The Chief Minister also lauded the achievements of Industries Minister Murugesh R. Nirani and Minister for Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries N. Nagaraj (MTB). Need for change Mr. Nirani said that many students passing out of colleges do not have adequate skills required for industry. “The academic curriculum of technical courses needs to be changed to create entrepreneurs among the young. The workshop will provide an opportunity to meet and interact with successful business leaders and entrepreneurs,” he said. Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa spoke on the policies introduced for the benefit of entrepreneurs during his tenure. Kaigarika Adalat will be held on Tuesday to address grievances of industrialists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sops-for-firms-offering-more-jobs-bommai/article36956097.ece
12 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan facing shortage of fertilizer during rabi crop sowing||Facing an acute shortage of fertilizers during the sowing of rabi crops, Rajasthan has initiated steps to make optimum utilisation of the reserves and advised the farmers to use alternative compounds for mustard and gram crops, which are expected to cover a collective area of 50 lakh hectares. The Congress government has also requested the Centre to sanction more quantity of fertilizers. Since the supply of diammonium phosphate (DAP) is largely dependent on imports, the gap between demand and supply has widened across the country because of low arrivals, affecting Rajasthan and other States this year. Rajasthan has received only 3.07 lakh metric tonnes of DAP during April to September against the demand for 4.50 lakh metric tonnes. Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said here on Monday that the farmers had been asked to use the alternate phosphatic fertilizers, single super phosphate and nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK) compound, to avoid the possible losses because of shortage of DAP. The SSP had been found to be more beneficial for oilseeds and pulses because of sulphur contents, Mr. Kataria said. Mr. Kataria said he had written a letter to Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandavia, pointing out that the Centre had approved only 67,000 metric tonnes of DAP for the rabi crops of 2021-22 in Rajasthan against the demand for 1.50 lakh tonnes during October. “We have faced a shortage of 2.25 lakh metric tonnes so far, though we have been making efforts at every level to provide fertilizers to the cultivators on time,” he said. The average area of mustard and gram crops is expected to be 30 lakh and 20 lakh hectares, respectively, for which a minimum of 2 lakh metric tonnes of DAP fertilizer will be required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-facing-shortage-of-fertilizer-during-rabi-crop-sowing/article36956552.ece
12 October 2021||Noida,||Dalit woman gang-raped in U.P.’s Jewar, one arrested||A middle-aged Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped at gunpoint in Uttar Pradesh’s Jewar area near Noida, police officers said on Monday, as the Opposition parties, including the BSP and the Congress, demanded action against the culprits. One of the four accused has been arrested over the Sunday morning incident even as multiple police teams were formed and surveillance teams, along with dog squads, deployed, the officers said. The key accused is absconding. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said, “Both are from the same village and known to each other.” The key accused, a drug-addict, dragged the woman and forced himself on her, according to Ms. Shukla, even as local officials said the woman was raped at gunpoint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dalit-woman-gang-raped-in-ups-jewar-one-arrested/article36956325.ece
12 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to procure 77 lakh metric tonnes of paddy||The Odisha government has approved Food and Procurement Policy for Kharif Marketing Season 2021-22, setting a target of procuring 77 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. The procurement season commenced from October 1 and would come to end on September 30 next year. The government will procure paddy during kharif and rabi seasons separately during the period. According to policy approved by State Cabinet, which was chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik here on Monday, a tentative target of 52 LMT in terms of rice has been fixed for 2021-22 season while in terms of paddy this comes to around 77 LMT. The government, however, made it clear that there is no bar on procurement of any higher quantum if more volume of paddy comes to mandis from registered farmers. “Paddy [kharif crop] will be procured in the State during the period from November, 2021 to March, 2022 and Paddy [rabi crop] from May to June next year,” said the government. “Small and marginal farmers shall be accorded priority for sale of paddy to government at minimum support price. There would be no imposition on farmers to keep aside a certain portion of their produce for personal consumption by their families,” says the policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-to-procure-77-lakh-metric-tonnes-of-paddy/article36956549.ece
12 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Dacoits held, Rs. 1.05 crore recovered||Odisha police personnel managed to retrieve Rs. 1.05 crore from armed dacoits after chasing them for 40 minutes through crowded roads on Monday. In the afternoon, a cash van belonging to a private security company had set out to replenish different ATM counters of State Bank of India. The van was intercepted by some miscreants near Khuntakata village under Athagarh police station limit in Cuttack district. The van was carrying cash of Rs. 1.29 crore. They overpowered the gunmen accompanying the van at gunpoint and snatched their guns. Two other employees were attacked with sharpened weapon. They escaped with cash after capturing the van. On being informed about the incident, Athagarh police informed all nearby police stations and started investigation. As the van was going towards Angul, Dhenkanal police too were informed. During the chase, miscreants managed to transfer cash to another vehicle and tried to escape. Police kept going after them. “Three persons were arrested from Bhojadeipur village and Rs. 1.05 crore was seized from them,” said Director General of Police Abhay. One person was said to have escaped with Rs. 24 lakh. Mr. Abhay said police acted swiftly and in a coordinated manner and recovered the amount within an hour. Inspector General of Police Narasingha Bhol said search is on to nab the fourth accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dacoits-held-rs-105-crore-recovered/article36956550.ece
12 October 2021||Agartala,||CPI(M) leader Bijan Dhar passes away||Tripura CPI(M) is in shock over the death of two of its top leaders within a span of one month. Party’s former State Secretary and incumbent convener of Left front committee Bijan Dhar died before dawn on Monday at a private hospital in Kolkata due to post COVID-19 complications. On September 16, CPI(M) State Secretary Gautam Das died of post COVID-19 complications in Kolkata too. Both were 70. Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb paid homage at the residence of the departed leader, who was CPI(M) State secretary for 10 years from 2008. The body of Bijan Dhar will be donated to the Agartala Government Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday afternoon to respect his final wishes. Senior CPI (M) leader Pabitra Kar however said that some officials of the AGMC are reluctant to accept the corpse as the patient earlier contracted COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cpim-leader-bijan-dhar-passes-away/article36956553.ece
12 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha hikes contractual workers’ salary||The Odisha government on Monday decided to enhance monthly remuneration of all contractual employees in the government sector and bring them under purview of medical reimbursement scheme. The Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik approved the proposal of amending the Contractual Appointment Rules 2013 and increasing the remuneration by 50%. Henceforth, they will be treated as ‘initial appointee’ instead of ‘contractual employee’. The decision assumes significance with the panchayat and civic body polls likely to be held early next year. “As per the existing rule, the service of all the contractual employees is regularised after six years. Now, from day one, they will get 50% higher salary than that of present level,” said Pratap Jena, Law Minister. Mr. Jena said, “These initial appointees can get the medical expenses reimbursed like regular government employees.” In another important decision, the State government has increased its contribution towards national pension scheme from 10% to 14% in respect of the employees covered under NPS. This decision will come into effect retrospectively from April 1, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-hikes-contractual-workers-salary/article36956326.ece
